



Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:45:16
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                 April 22, 2008

Video: Leeds school opened by terrorist attack hero

LENGTH: 360 words


The brand new John Smeaton Community College in Leeds was officially opened
today by a modern-day hero of the same name who helped foil the Glasgow Airport
terrorist attack.

Scots-born John Smeaton was working as a baggage handler when he risked his life
to help police officers, staff and the public when terrorists drove a flaming
jeep into the airport terminal last June.

While most fled in horror, Mr Smeaton rushed to help a policeman who was being
attacked by one of the vehicle's occupants. He also helped drag an injured
colleague away from the Jeep, which was loaded with propane canisters.

The hero, who won the Queen's Gallantry Medal for his brave efforts, took time
out from saving lives to officially open the new John Smeaton Community College
in Stanks, which welcomed its first pupils in September.

The college is one of five completed under the £112m Combined Secondary Schools
Project (CSSP), a partnership between Education Leeds, Leeds City Council and
Land Securities Trillium.

Opening the school, Mr Smeaton said: "It's a great honour and I'm delighted to
be here.

"One minute you're a baggage handler and the next you're a national hero.

"You have a boring, normal life like everybody else and all of a sudden you're
thrust into this life that you read about in the papers.

"I'm just a normal guy who was in a place trying to do the right thing at the
right time. I'm nothing special."

The original John Smeaton, who the school is named after, was born in Austhorpe
in the 18th century and became the physicist and is regarded as the father of
civil engineering.

Among the state-of-the art facilities at the new school include a construction
suite, a hair and beauty salon and recording, dance and drama studios.

Headteacher John Daulby said: "Results are improving year on year and we now
have one of the best learning environments in the country to add to the
brilliant leisure and sports facilities which opened last year.

The other schools to benefit from the CSSP are Ralph Thoresby High, South Leeds
High and Carr Manor High, as well as the region's first ever learning campus for
two-to-19 year olds at Primrose High and Shakespeare Primary.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday

Russian pundit says terrorist groups planning attacks on Ukraine

LENGTH: 345 words


Russian pundit Aleksandr Zhilin has said that "three Islamic extremist groups"
are planning "a series of quite bold, major terrorist attacks against Ukraine in
response to Ukraine's NATO aspirations". Zhilin, who was introduced as an
independent military expert, was discussing the importance of a recent CIS air
defence drill on Russian Centre TV's "25th Hour" programme on 22 April. He said
that the groups were based outside Ukraine and that the Ukrainian authorities
had kept the information secret from the public.

"The scriptwriters for these barbarous acts have one aim, to frighten, overwhelm
potential partners and NATO members. Under one of the considered scenarios the
terrorists would strike from Moldova. For example, under the most simple of
scenarios a chartered aircraft would land in Chisinau and from there fly to
Ukraine. A very important facility, a very hazardous facility, for the entire
Europe, the South Ukrainian Nuclear Power Plant, becomes a target.

"We know the condition of Ukraine's air defence system; we know the condition of
our fraternal partners' national security system. Therefore all of this is very
serious, serious for Russia and all of Europe."

Zhilin was also asked about his views on a recent incident in the
Georgian-Abkhaz conflict zone in which a Georgian unmanned aerial vehicle was
shot done (by Abkhaz forces according to the Russian and Abkhaz separatist
authorities; by a Russian fighter jet according to the government of Georgia).
Zhilin described the incident as an "act of provocation" by Tbilisi and a
"poorly prepared PR" stunt, and ridiculed the explanations given by the Georgian
officials.

He said Russia should ignore them just as a doctor ignores a mentally ill
patient's "tantrums". "One should either administer shots or use a
straightjacket or do something else, but one should not take it close to their
heart. This will continue. And I assure you that the more good will on the part
of Moscow the more such acts of provocation there will be," he said.

Source: Centre TV, Moscow, in Russian 1950 gmt 22 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                                 April 23, 2008

Long Causeway knife-attack terror: Man faces deportation

LENGTH: 571  words


A MAN who brought terror to the city centre when he ploughed his car into
shoppers before plunging a knife into a brave bystander who tried to stop him
could be deported.

Paranoid schizophrenic Mohammed Zouaoui (34) was told by Judge Nicholas Coleman
that what he did was so grave, he should be sent back to his Algerian homeland
after completing a spell in a mental health unit.

He was also banned from driving for seven years.

Peterborough Crown Court heard that Zouaoui, of Cromwell Road, Millfield,
Peterborough, had arrived in the country by claiming asylum.

But it was suggested this was done "for spurious reasons" by entering into a
marriage of convenience with a woman who now lives in France.

Zouaoui, who has been detained at the Norvic Clinic in Norwich, had admitted at
an earlier hearing to dangerous driving, attempting to cause grievous bodily
harm with intent, causing grievous bodily harm with intent, and wounding with
intent during the incident in Long Causeway.

At his sentencing yesterday, the dramatic details of Zouaoui's terrifying spree
on Saturday, January 5 were laid bare.

But what also emerged was an inspiring story of courage.

Nick Petruzziello (22) received 13 stitches after being stabbed as he tried to
usher his girlfriend and other shoppers out of harm's way.

Judge Coleman said: "What he did was quite astonishing. He should be commended
for his bravery and willingness to intervene and help others when confronting
someone who could have hurt him."

He will be awarded £500 for his selfless actions.

The court heard how a steward manning the barrier in Long Causeway saw Zouaoui
hurtling through it in his Citroen ZX.

A man and woman were thrown into the air before the driver pulled up outside the
Nationwide Building Society.

Also watching aghast at the unfolding events was Mr Petruzziello, who had just
picked up a takeaway with his girlfriend Jennie Westall.

Prosecuting, John Kellett said: "He saw the driver get out and decided he should
close him down in case he did anything else to anybody.

"He punched him to the face. At this point, he didn't see the knife.

"He thought he received a punch back, but when he saw the blood on his shirt, he
realised he had been stabbed.

"He should be commended for his public spirit in approaching him, considering
what he had just heard and seen."

As blood poured from his abdomen, Mr Petruzziello ran to alert others to stay
out of the man's path.

Zouaoui then jumped in his car and sped off. He was tracked by CCTV and picked
up by officers on the A1.

Sentencing, Judge Coleman said: "The whole episode, to those involved and the
witnesses, was no doubt terrifying.

"The public have to be protected from the danger you present.

"Although you have made a marked improvement, your mental state is still fragile
and will continue to be so.

"The right course is for you to be detained under the Mental Health Act.

"You should not be released until it is seen as appropriate to do so.

"What you did was so bad and sufficiently dangerous to warrant a recommendation
at the conclusion of your detention that you be deported."

The psychiatrist treating Zouaoui said he could appeal against his detention in
just six months.

Speaking afterwards, Mr Petruzziello said: "It won't be just us that is unhappy
at the sentence, it will be everyone in Peterborough.

"But I think the judge did everything he could.

"It's closure for all of us, even though it was not the outcome we wanted."

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            April 24, 2008 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

SUN HILL TERROR ATTACK;
SOAPER STAR - Cops face bomb hell

BYLINE: with Soaps Editor KATIE BEGLEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 28

LENGTH: 255 words


SUN Hill's finest face their toughest challenge when bombs rip through central
London.

In a sensational threepart special, kicking off a week today, chaos reigns as
blasts leave scores dead and hundreds injured.

And as police struggle to cope, fans' favourite Emma Keane finds herself in the
middle of an attack.

Emma, played by Melanie Gutteridge, 34, is left fighting for her life when she
walks into a factory as another device explodes.

The storyline has been months in the planning and bosses of the ITV drama think
the time is finally right to screen the scenes after the real 7/7 attacks on
London in 2005.

The stars drew on experiences from the Tube and bus bombings to make their
scenes more realistic.

Sam Callis, 32, who plays Sgt Callum Stone, said: "It was very emotional.

"But I do think it's the right time to show it. People will be able to relate to
the story and the confusion caused by the explosions.

"I felt like crying at the end of filming, it was just so draining." The Sun
Hill team desperately try to work out who is responsible. And there is more
drama amid the madness as Stone discovers that a pervert is posing as a doctor
to molest injured women.

As he goes off to tackle the sick criminal, he leaves Emma alone and she
discovers another bomb in a nearby warehouse.

Sam added: "She manages to get people out but discovers there's three people
left, when she heads back inside the bomb goes off." Stone and fellow officer
Sally Armstrong (Ali Bastian, 25) race into the building to find Emma covered in
debris.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEART STOPPER: Sally watches helplessly as Callum Stone desperately
tries to save Pc Emma Keane. Below, aftermath of the bombings

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Post Magazine

                            April 24, 2008 Thursday

Business Continuity Management: Terrorism - Planet terror.;
Actions in the face of terrorist attacks can often seem inadequate. But with 40%
of organisations likely to fail in the event of an atrocity, now has never been
a more important time to plan for all eventualities, as Sam Barrett discovers.

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2099  words

DATELINE: UK


A recent survey found that, in spite of the risk, many London firms have failed
to put any plans in place to deal with a terrorist attack. The survey, conducted
by Marsh, found that more than a third of the delegates at its seminar on
terrorism did not have emergency response, crisis management and business
recovery plans integrated within their business continuity management framework.

"We had representatives from 88 reputable companies and more than a third of
them said that, although they had BCM plans for other events, they had not put
anything together specifically for a terrorist attack," explains Robert Hall,
managing consultant at Marsh.

This is a worrying statistic. "BCM planning for acts of terrorism has become a
necessity. By having the proper systems in place an organisation is prepared if
the worst happens and this will mean minimal interruption to business," says
Mick Gritton, director for corporate consulting at HMS. He points out that
following the IRA vehicle bomb in Manchester in 1996, more than 40% of
organisations affected went out of business.

Abstract threat

There are all manner of reasons for the low BCM take-up. For starters, although
people are aware of the threat, they feel unable to do anything about it.
"Terrorist attacks can feel like a very abstract threat," says Liam Morrissey,
partner at BGN Risk, the security consulting division of Begbies Traynor. "They
don't happen every day and many firms believe they don't need to plan for it as,
if it does happen, the government will deal with it anyway."

Their potential scale can also be a deterrent. For instance, Peter Adlington,
manager of property and commercial reinsurance at Allianz, says that for small
companies with a single site in a target area it can be easy to be daunted by
the potential impact and take no action. "It is easier for international firms,"
he adds. "These are akin to a state in their own right. They have large and
spread resources, duplication of processes and over all a will to survive and
prosper. They also have the experience and manpower to negotiate with
authorities at all levels."

The state of the insurance market is also taking away some of the impetus to put
BCM plans in place. It has been softening for some time and this trend is likely
to continue for the rest of the year. "This has led to an increase in demand for
cover as existing clients feel able to purchase increased capacity at a
competitive rate while new clients feel cover is now more affordable as prices
have fallen," says Sandy Cheetham, terrorism underwriter at Arch Insurance
Company. She says that she saw business increase by 40% in March alone.

But while it may be cheaper than it has ever been to put cover in place, this
can make firms less inclined to put any BCM in place. This is especially the
case when the discipline of BCM is not properly integrated with insurance.

"There's still a disconnect between insurance and the risk management and BCM
industry," says Chris Rigby-Smith, partner in global risk solutions at Jardine
Lloyd Thompson. "From an insurer's perspective it can be difficult to determine
what makes a good BCM plan."

This will change, especially with the introduction of a British Standard for BCM
(BS25999) last November. "The new standard provides a framework to identify
risks and respond to them. As the standard becomes more widely known, with
accreditation available later this year, insurers may insist that businesses
receive it as evidence that a BCM programme is fit for purpose," says Shaun
Kelly, head of business solutions group at Crawford and Company.

Specific plans

As well as being lulled into a false sense of security by the availability of
cheap cover, some firms, having put together BCM plans for other potential
problems such as fire or flood, feel these can be adapted for any event,
including terrorism.

Martin Savage, managing consultant and business continuity practice leader at
RSA, says this can work. "If you have good wide BCM plans then they should apply
to everything. Scenario planning is too specific," he explains.

However, Mr Hall argues that this is not the case as terrorism is such a
different event. "Terrorism has unique features. There's the potential for mass
casualty, mass damage and mass disruption. This requires different planning to
events such as fire and flood."

As an example, while it makes sense to have alternative premises arranged for a
fire or flood, on the day of the terrorist bomb attacks in London on 7 July
2005, having an alternative premises in London would have been pointless as the
entire city ground to a halt.

And according to Doug Barnett, head of customer risk management at Axa
Insurance, many firms could be caught out by this. "For fire and flood it's
perfectly acceptable to move to alternative premises a couple of miles down the
road but, with a terrorist attack you need a disaster recovery centre in another
part of the country," he explains. "Many larger businesses will have regional
offices and they should think about whether they could use these."

Threats are also very different. Although there hasn't been an incident in the
UK, there is a threat of a chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear attack.

"Bombs involving conventional explosives have a comparatively limited
geographical impact and the damage can be seen. By contrast, CBRN contaminants
are invisible and are likely to render large areas uninhabitable and unusable
for a considerable period of time," says Mr Kelly. "Planning for this type of
event is, to say the least, extremely problematic and usually only within the
scope of international companies."

Even though there is little a business can do in the long term in the event of
this type of attack, their initial responses will need to be considered. Mr Hall
says: "With these types of attacks you'd need to take very different action to
those used when dealing with a fire or flood. Because of the risks involved with
going outside you'd need to look at safeguarding the building, shutting off any
air intakes and invacuating rather than evacuating."

Businesses also need to think about how they deal with employees in the event of
a terrorist attack. While employees can generally adapt quickly to new working
conditions or premises if a fire or flood occurs, a terrorist attack can affect
employees' psychological wellbeing. Further, even people who were not directly
involved in the incident can still be affected by it. To illustrate this, 7th
July Assistance, which was set up to provide counselling and support to people
affected by the bombings, recognises that the attacks can affect people that
were not even caught up in the incidents and will work with anyone affected.

As well as being compassionate towards employees' feelings, Mr Barnett believes
firms must consider their legal responsibilities. "It's worth bearing the
Corporate Manslaughter Act in mind," he explains. "If multiple attacks are
taking place then is it reasonable to expect employees to come into the office?
Or would you be putting them at risk if you insisted they came in?"

The scale of terrorism attacks also means it's essential to develop plans in
conjunction with other organisations. A prime example of this is a company's
employee evacuation plans. While the evacuation of one company's premises to a
particular meeting point might be possible, if every company in an area has to
evacuate its building there might not be sufficient space for all the employees.

"Businesses do need to work together to ensure their plans don't create new
problems," explains Mr Hall. He says there has not been much evidence of this
happening though. "Evidence suggest that where this happens it's down to the
person's initiative but I think this will improve with the education process,"
he adds.

Mr Morrissey would also like to see businesses taking steps to prevent attacks.
As an example he uses Israel. "There's always a reconnaissance before an attack
to make sure it's going to be possible. In Israel one of the prime targets for
bombs are the buses. They're easy for a bomber to board and other targets, such
as supermarkets, now have security in place so anyone acting suspiciously will
be identified and deterred quickly," he explains.

But, possibly more important than beefing up security and putting the plans
together, is the testing of them. "This is certainly an area where businesses
are failing to take action," says Mr Rigby-Smith. He believes that although most
businesses, especially in the city where BCM is more developed, will have
introduced some form of plan for a major incident, it's much less likely it will
have been tested.

Ideally a BCM plan should be tested as often as possible, although the
disruption this can cause to the business can prevent it happening at all. "You
could have a paper exercise every few months with a full test once a year," says
Mr Hall. "This will highlight any weaknesses in the plan."

Plan of action

Plans do not - and should not - be put together in isolation either. As well as
involving other businesses in the area, firms can turn to a variety of
organisations for advice and support. Mr Adlington says that the government,
local authorities, trade associations, unions and the local chamber of commerce
could all help. He adds: "In the recent flood events the Gold Commands worked
well, co-ordinating rescue and recovery especially to the infrastructure."

Insurance can also help. Although the low cost of insurance means it's often
being used instead of proper planning, it can complement good BCM as well as
being affordable. Given the softness of the market there is plenty of choice
available, with a number of new players entering the market in the last couple
of years. These include Hiscox's launch last year of a combined war, terrorism
and political violence policy.

"There's a huge amount of diversity when looking at intellectual capacity within
the market," says Ms Cheetham. "Some carriers have chosen to write in a
conservative fashion while others have deployed their capacity in a more
entrepreneurial way."

Whether going conservative or entrepreneurial, she does warn that it is not
always appropriate to buy off-the-peg cover. "Firms need to ensure they are
getting bespoke products to maximise protection of their assets," she explains,
adding that many clients are tailoring cover to their liabilities.

To illustrate this she lists some of the areas that can be covered. These
include physical damage, contents, pure business interruption and contingent
business interruption, covering named suppliers and buyers with sub-limits in
respect of increased cost of operating, loss of profits and so on. Given the
cheapness of cover and the willingness of insurers and other parties to provide
support on BCM planning, it has never been easier to prepare for the unthinkable
so maybe next time the figures will tell a different story.

THE TERRORISM THREAT

Being the capital city and a major financial centre, London has always been a
potential target for terrorism. According to MI5 there is a serious and
sustained threat from international terrorism with the current threat level
assessed as severe.

In recent years there have been a number of attacks, with the attack on London's
transport network on 7 July 2005 causing the most damage. This killed 52 people
and injured a further 800.

Since then there have been several attacks in the UK. These include a second
attempt on London's transport system two weeks later, failed car bomb attacks in
the centre of London in June 2007 and a burning car loaded with gas cylinders
driven into Glasgow airport later that month. Further, the trial of eight men
charged over an alleged plot to blow up passengers planes flying out of Heathrow
is currently underway.

Sandy Cheetham, terrorism underwriter at Arch Insurance Company, says the most
significant risk to London comes from domestic self-radicalising Sunni extremist
groups.

"Sunni extremists are likely to attempt to cause bomb explosions that maximise
human casualties by attacking crowded transportation assets, busy public spaces,
bars and nightclubs and tourist attractions in London's West End," she says.

She believes that some successful plots are likely to take place in the next
three years, with more plots and attempted attacks likely to be disrupted over
this time.

More information about the threats and advice about how to prepare for them can
be found on the London Resilience website (www.londonprepared.gov.uk), the MI5
website (www.mi5.gov.uk) and the Metropolitan Police Service website
(www.met.police.uk).

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                 Copyright 2008 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 25, 2008 Friday

China: PLA Olympic security forces take precautions against terror attacks

LENGTH: 728 words


Text of report by Chinese news agency Zhongguo Xinwen She

["PLA Olympic Security Forces Take Strict Precautions against Terrorist Attacks]

Beijing, 24 April (ZXS) - Under the unified organization and coordination of the
PLA General Staff Headquarters, the PLA Olympics security forces are making
elaborate preparations, undergoing intensive training, and making rigorous
battle preparations. At present, all items of the preparatory work for guarding
against terrorist attacks during the Olympic Games have entered the stage of
battle simulation training.

According to the briefing given by a responsible person in the Military Training
and Arms Department of the PLA General Staff Headquarters, counter-terrorism is
the top priority in the Olympic Games security work, and preventing and
combating terrorist attacks by nuclear, chemical, and biological means is the
critical and difficult point in the counter-terrorist efforts. Terror attacks by
nuclear, chemical, and biological means may be diverse and stealthy, and may be
difficult to prevent and cope with. So the counter-terrorist efforts are focused
on preventing and coping with terror attacks by nuclear, chemical, and
biological means.

As it is learned, to do the prevention work well, the relevant forces have
adopted concrete measures, including the measures of conducting accurate
reconnaissance, instantly controlling and intercepting intelligence, taking
preemptive actions to neutralize the enemies before they can launch terror
attacks; installing nuclear, chemical, and biological sensing and monitoring
devices and relevant security check equipment in the stadiums and other
facilities related to the Olympic Games; exercising rigorous security control
over the nuclear, chemical, and biological facilities and the production, use,
and transportation of poisonous and hazardous nuclear, chemical, and biological
materials in the cities for the Olympic Games; extensively conducting propaganda
to popularize the scientific knowledge about terror attacks by nuclear,
chemical, biological means.

In late 2006, the PLA Olympics security forces embarked upon making preparations
against terrorist attacks by nuclear, chemical, biological means for the
guaranteeing the security of the Olympic Games. Experts in nuclear, chemical,
biological protection were selected from various military academies and research
institutes in the whole PLA to set up an emergency expert consultation group for
preventing and combating terrorist attacks by nuclear, chemical, biological
means; force deployment and task assignments were made for all links of the
Olympic Games security; comprehensive training was unfolded; the "Manual of
Preventing and Coping with Terrorist Attacks by Nuclear, Chemical, Biological
Means" was compiled and printed; coordinated training, command exercises, and
joint professional drillings were organized to practice the counter-terrorist
actions against nuclear, chemical, biological attacks; the forces, the
armaments, and the construction of the means were strengthened; materials and
equipment were distributed and replenished; the nuclear, chemical, biological
sensing and monitoring equipment installed in the Olympic Games stadiums,
facilities, and other important targets was tested; the test of radiation and
biological samples was completed. At present, the PLA Olympics security forces
have built up the capability of, and attained the required technical and
tactical level of, accurately detecting, preventing, issuing early warning
about, and correctly judging the character and harmful effects of, a terror
attack, and taking timely actions to rescue common people and evacuate them from
the dangerous area.

At present, the relevant units have formulated a general programme and a set of
specialized plans and departmental plans for the Olympic Games security in the
aspect of guarding against and coping with terror attacks by nuclear, chemical,
biological means, and have formulated a complete set of plans for preventing and
coping with nuclear, chemical, biological terror attacks. In the meanwhile, they
have organized emergency forces, established professional contingents,
integrated all types of emergency forces, and clarified the command and
coordination relationships according to the division of tasks.

Source: Zhongguo Xinwen She news agency, Beijing, in Chinese 24 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                             April 28, 2008 Monday

Sex attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 442 words


Detectives have appealed for the public's help after two 14-year-old girls and
an older woman were sexually assaulted at knifepoint in St Judes.

A major investigation involving more than 20 officers is under way after the
victims were attacked at 8.30pm on Saturday in the Lucas Lane area of Tothill
Park.

The incident began when two teenage girls were jogging along a cycle path close
to the park.

A man approached them, engaged them in conversation and jogged alongside.  He
then threatened them with what detectives believe was a Stanley or craft knife,
before sexually assaulting them both.

A woman cycling in the area heard the girls' screams and tackled the man,
allowing them to escape. The brave woman, in her mid 30s, was then also sexually
assaulted.

Two men, who live in the area, chased the offender but lost him as he made his
way towards Embankment Road. The girls and the woman escaped with minor injuries
in the attack.

Up to 24 specially-trained police officers were today expected to continue
door-to-door enquiries and searches of the area.

Detective Chief Inspector Iain Grafton, head of Plymouth CID, described it as a
"terrifying" ordeal, and urged people to be cautious if using the area.

He said detectives believe the suspect is a local man and had been seen in the
area in the days leading up to the attack.

Residents who might have seen the man are being urged to contact the police.

"It is a worry for local residents and clearly there is a concern for their
safety," said DCI Grafton.

"Anyone who uses the cycle path should take some precautions for the time being,
such as not jogging alone and telling someone where you are going.

"I would also urge them to carry a mobile phone.

"Although the girls did not suffer great physical injury, this was a terrifying
ordeal for them."

Detective Inspector Mike Cooper, who is leading the investigation, said: "It is
very unusual that three women should be assaulted in such a way in such a short
space of time.

"This man is a dangerous serious offender and we would urge anyone with any
information to come forward."

The attacker is described as having dark skin and being a mixed race man. He
spoke with a local accent and is believed to be aged in his mid-20s.

He is about 5ft 9in to 6ft 1in tall and of slim build and was wearing dark
coloured clothing and a grey hooded top which was up at the time of the
incident.  He also had a grade three hair cut.

Anyone with any information is asked to call the police on 08452 777 444 quoting
the crime reference number EC08 4448.

Alternatively people can call Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

A 25-year-old man has been arrested in connection with the incident.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 Evening Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             April 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

MAN IS RUN OVER IN TIT-FOR-TAT MURDER BID;
 Gunshot terror during gang's vicious attack

BYLINE: JOHN LEES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 516 words


A MAN was seriously ill in hospital yesterday after being run over by his own
car during a terrifying street attack in which a gun was fired.

John Burns, 44, suffered spinal injuries when a gang of thugs tried to murder
him in Tannahill Terrace, Ferguslie Park, Paisley, as passers-by looked on in
horror.

Last night, detectives said they had not ruled out a possible link with a second
attempted murder in the town which happened hours later and led to four men
being stabbed - with one of the victims left critically ill.

One underworld source told the Paisley Daily Express: "There seems to be a link
between these two murder bids and one line of inquiry being looked at by police
is that it was a tit-for-tat situation."

Violence flared in Tannahill Terrace at around 8.30pm on Sunday when a large
group of men and women were involved in a disturbance.

The source added: "A man who owns a 4x4 car was run over by his own vehicle but
I don't know who was driving it at the time.

"He suffered some nasty injuries, including damage to his spine.

"Someone also heard a loud bang and recognised it as a gun being fired but
no-one has any gunshot wounds so, clearly, the bullet didn't hit anyone.

"There is talk that there had been bad feelings between some of the people
involved and it has got way out of hand."

Last night, Mr Burns was being treated at Paisley's Royal Alexandra Hospital,
where his condition was described as serious but stable.

A stretch of Tannahill Terrace covering some 200 yards had been cordoned off
yesterday as cops continued to carry out door-to-door inquiries.

In an appeal for witnesses, a police spokesman said: "If anyone saw or heard
anything in that area of Ferguslie Park on Sunday night, ring the police on
01505 404000 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111."

The second attempted murder took place in Wellmeadow Street, Paisley, during a
fight involving four men, some of whom were armed with blades.

The melee is believed to have stemmed from a disagreement in the nearby Whisky
Joe's pub at around 10.30pm on Sunday.

That row led to trouble outside the pub, which then escalated across the street.

In the moments that followed, four men were badly hurt, with pools of blood left
at the scene.

The injured men - aged 34, 35, 37 and 50 - were all taken to the RAH suffering a
variety of wounds to back, chest and stomach.

The 37-year-old man is the most seriously ill and his condition was yesterday
said to be critical.

Detectives said the attack on the most seriously injured victim is being treated
as attempted murder, while the attacks on the other three men are being treated
as serious assaults.

One resident who lives near to the scene of the street fight said: "It was
bedlam. People were screaming and threatening each other.

"At least three men had blades and they were lashing out. One man came off the
worst. He lost a lot of blood and I know he was in a bad way."

A police spokesman said: "This was a serious incident which must have been
witnessed by many people. We urge them to ring us on 01505 404000 or call
Crimestoppers."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SCENE: Cops in Tannahill Terrace yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack targeting Afghan officials

LENGTH: 230 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -Turkey condemned Wednesday the terrorist attack in Kabul, the
capital of Afghanistan, which targeted top Afghan officials.

The Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) issued a press release strongly
condemning the terrorist attack.

"Turkey strongly condemns the terrorist attack that was staged in Kabul on April
27th during the independence day celebrations of our brother country
Afghanistan, which claimed the lives of four people including MP Fazil Rahman
Camkhani and an infant, and wounded many others," said the statement.

The statement said President Abdullah Gul and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip
Erdogan sent messages of condolence following the terrorist attack "which
targeted the peace of Afghan people and the atmosphere of stability in the
country, in the person of Afghan President Hamid Karzai."

Turkish MFA pointed out that terror had no religion, nationality and wished
condolence for the Afghan people and government. The MFA wowed to keep on
contributing to the establishment of peace and stability in this country.

Afghan President Hamid Karzai escaped unhurt after an assassination attempt by
Taleban terrorists with guns and rockets during an official celebration in Kabul
during independence day celebrations of his country.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0959 gmt 30 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           April 30, 2008, Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

FAMILY PETROL BOMB TERROR;
Night-time attack on home

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4 words


FULL STORY - SEE PAGE TWO

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



              PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: NORTH EAST

                      April 30, 2008 Wednesday 2:17 PM BST

MOCK TERROR ATTACK STAGED

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 56 words


The police and council workers are staging a mocked up terrorist incident in
Gateshead.

The exercise will help them learn how the business community reacts to the
potential impact of a major incident such as a terror attack.

Police said the event aimed to help firms plan ways to prevent, handle and
recover from a terrorist incident. end

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Blackpool Gazette

                                  May 2, 2008

Girl, 13, in sex attack terror

LENGTH: 112 words


A TEENAGE girl was grabbed by a man who threatened to violently sexually assault
her.

Police today called the attack on the 13-year-old - who was on her paper round
in central Blackpool at the time - "terrifying".

It happened at around 7am yesterday on Somerset Avenue, close its junction with
Whitegate Drive.

The girl managed to break free from the pervert's clutches and run away.

Det Sgt Sue Cawley, of Blackpool CID, said: "She has been approached by a man
after he had followed her for some time.

"He has then made indecent suggestions and grabbed her before she has pushed him
away and run off.

"He threatened to do her serious harm and those threats were of a sexual nature.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                              May 2, 2008, Friday

TRIAL RUN OF TERROR ATTACKS ON CCTV

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 231 words


FOOTAGE showing three of the July 7 bombers travelling on the Tube in a dummy
run nine days before the attacks was shown to a jury yesterday.

The CCTV images show Mohammed Siddique Khan, Shehzad Tanweer and Jermaine
Lindsay arriving in London at 8.52am on June 28, 2005 - the same time they would
make their final journey just over a week later.

They were filmed arriving at King's Cross rail station before travelling on to
Embankment, South Kensington and Baker Street Tube stations.

They spent four hours in London, before returning on the Thames Link train to
Luton, Kingston Crown Court heard.

Nine days later, the three men and a fourth bomber, Hasib Hussain, would murder
52 people and injure nearly 1000 more when they set off their bombs on the
capital's transport network.

The clips were shown to jurors at the trial of Waheed Ali, 24, Mohammed Shakil,
31, and Sadeer Saleem, 27, who are said to have helped the bombers by scouting
possible targets during a two-day mission seven months before the attacks.

The court has heard traces of DNA from Ali and Saleem were found at a "bomb
factory" in Alexandra Grove, Leeds, while a key for a Mitsubishi belonging to
Shakil, was discovered at the address.

Ali, from Bow, east London, and Shakil and Saleem, from Beeston in Leeds, all
deny conspiring to cause an explosion to endanger lives or likely to cause
serious injury.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FILMED: The London bombers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily Record (PM) - UK

                               May 2, 2008 Friday
                                 North Edition

Trial run of terror attacks on CCTV

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 234 words


FOOTAGE showing three of the July 7 bombers travelling on the Tube in a dummy
run nine days before the attacks was shown to a jury yesterday.

The CCTV images show Mohammed Siddique Khan, Shehzad Tanweer and Jermaine
Lindsay arriving in London at 8.52am on June 28, 2005 - the same time they would
make their final journey just over a week later.

They were filmed arriving at King's Cross rail station before travelling on to
Embankment, South Kensington and Baker Street Tube stations.

They spent four hours in London, before returning on the Thames Link train to
Luton, Kingston Crown Court heard.

Nine days later, the three men and a fourth bomber, Hasib Hussain, would murder
52 people and injure nearly 1000 more when they set off their bombs on the
capital's transport network.

The clips were shown to jurors at the trial of Waheed Ali, 24, Mohammed Shakil,
31, and Sadeer Saleem, 27, who are said to have helped the bombers by scouting
possible targets during a two-day mission seven months before the attacks.

The court has heard traces of DNA from Ali and Saleem were found at a "bomb
factory" in Alexandra Grove, Leeds, while a key for a Mitsubishi belonging to
Shakil, was discovered at the address.

Ali, from Bow, east London, and Shakil and Saleem, from Beeston in Leeds, all
deny conspiring to cause an explosion to endanger lives or likely to cause
serious injury.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FILMED: The London bombers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               May 2, 2008 Friday

Learning how to deal with a terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 168 words


A Scheme to raise awareness of how businesses deal with the public, staff and
customers in the event of a terrorist attack took place this week.

Project Argus, a National Counter Terrorism Security Office  initiative, taught
30 delegates ways to prevent, handle and recover from a major incident by taking
them through a simulated exercise.

Led by Notts police's Special Branch, and supported by Nottingham City Council
and the Nottingham and Nottinghamshire Local Resilience Forum, the session asked
business managers and assistant managers a number of questions to challenge how
prepared they currently are.

Ian Morden, security systems manager for Nottingham Trent University, who
attended, said: "This has been a very useful  exercise. It has  provided me with
food for thought."

Mark Edis, security manager for Westfield's Broadmarsh Centre, said:
"Information like this is invaluable for companies like mine.

"I will be taking these messages back to my organisation to help build our
resilience in these areas."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 5, 2008 Monday

Police official warns about possibility of terrorist attack from Bosnia

LENGTH: 695 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb privately-owned centrist newspaper Nezavisne
novine, on 3 May

[Report by Vesna Popovic: "Terrorists might attack from Bosnia-Hercegovina"]

Banja Luka - As a result of weak communication among the law enforcement
agencies, the decentralized nature of the state, and the political interference
in law enforcement, Bosnia-Hercegovina is vulnerable to exploitation as a
potential staging ground for terrorist operations in Europe.

This is stated in the US State Department's most recent report on terrorism. The
report says that "the dysfunctional Bosnian state government and the efforts by
the Serb Republic officials to undermine the state-level institutions
contributed to a slowdown, and in some cases, setbacks in efforts to improve
operational capabilities to combat terrorism and terrorism finance."

"The State Investigation and Protection Agency [SIPA] is the Bosnian agency with
primary responsibility for counterterrorism operations. The position of the SIPA
director was unfilled for most of the year and the agency's readiness and
capabilities suffered as a result. In addition, the B-H security minister
politicized the Ministry's terrorism threat analysis and counterterrorism
operations," the report reads.

Although Bosnian capabilities and potential for independent action were degraded
over the year, the report says, the Bosnian authorities were generally effective
and responsive to US counterterrorism cooperation requests.

Gojko Vasic, director of the Serb Republic criminal police administration,
warned that Bosnia-Hercegovina might be used as a base for training and sending
terrorists to Europe and the rest of the world. Vasic did not rule out the
possibility of terrorist attacks.

"There is always a possibility of terrorist attacks, particularly considering
the fact that Bosnia-Hercegovina went through a war, when people were trained to
use weapons and this knowledge can be used for terrorist purposes," he said.

He also said that the Serb Republic Interior Ministry [MUP] was collecting data
on the ground and submitted it to agencies that might find it interesting,
including even certain foreign agencies.

Vasic added that the Serb Republic MUP was submitting to the state service the
required data, but he warned that the Ministry did not have methods that secret
intelligence services had to use in fighting terrorism.

Serb Republic Prime Minister Milorad Dodik said in his comment on the State
Department's report that the B-H institutions were undermining the entities and
this had to stop.

He said that Bosnia-Hercegovina was a deeply divided multiethnic society, which
could not be based on the centralized foundations and the view that all the
institutions of authority had to be centralized at the B-H level.

Dodik emphasized that Bosnia-Hercegovina could preserve its international-legal
framework, and that its internal organization was a matter of the interest of
people who live here, and not the international powers.

We did not manage to get a comment by B-H Defence Minister Tarik Sadovic
yesterday, as he did not answer his telephone.

He had said earlier that according to the assessment by the
Intelligence-Security Agency, fewer than 50 people represented a threat to the
national security, but that none of those people were currently in
Bosnia-Hercegovina.

[Box] Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia-Hercegovina

The State Department said in its report that the Croatian Government had
increased its contribution to the international security forces in Afghanistan
from 150 to 200 soldiers, who were serving in medical support, force security,
military police, and the liaison and training roles.

According to the State Department's annual report on terrorism, Serbia
cooperated with the United States on a wide range of terrorism issues, including
border security and information sharing.

As for Kosovo, the UNMIK [United Nations Mission in Kosovo] continued to deal
with terrorist activities issues, and the officials believed that only a few of
the more than 400 non-governmental organizations in Kosovo were involved in
suspicious activities.

Source: Nezavisne novine, Banja Luka, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 3 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 5, 2008 Monday

Philippine military denies attacking Moro camp in anti-terrorist operation

LENGTH: 241 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on
5 May

[Report by Roel Pareno: "Military denies attacking MNLF camp"]

Zamboanga City - The military branded yesterday as propaganda reports that
troops attacked a Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) camp in Sulu last week
to flush out Abu Sayyaf and Jemaah Islamiyah (JI) terrorists.

Marine Lt. Gen. Juancho Sabban, joint Task Force Comet commander, said the
military has strictly adhered to the 1996 peace agreement with the MNLF.

Their target was the Abu Sayyaf and JI terrorists encamped near the MNLF area,
he added.

The offensive would have been prolonged if the MNLF were hit by Wednesday's
"surgical strike" in sitio Kandilamon near sitio Marang in Barangay Kagay,
Indanan town, Sabban said.

Gov. Zaldy Ampatuan of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao lauded the
military's swift operation since it did not cause damage to civilians and their
properties.

The military operation allowed the regional government to focus on its
development effort which has already gained ground due to the stability in the
region, he added.

Amira Lidasan, Suara Bangsamoro chair, reported that the military bombarded a
camp occupied by MNLF zone leader Khaid Ajibun.

"The Suara Bangsamoro condemned the bombing launched by the AFP (Armed Forces of
the Philippines) against the MNLF camp in Sulu," he said in a statement.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 5 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                             May 8, 2008, Thursday
                                  FIN Edition

TAXI TERROR;
Court told of 'sex attack' on woman

BYLINE: GARETH LIGHTFOOT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 411 words


A TAXI driver kidnapped and sexually assaulted a female passenger in an
hour-long ride of terror, a court heard.

Mohammed Saddique told his 23-year-old passenger he thought she was "up for
anything", a Teesside Crown Court jury was told yesterday.

Saddique, 29, picked her up in Middlesbrough after a night out at about 2.30am
on September 19 last year.

But then he took unexpected turns and instead of taking the woman home to
Billingham, drove towards Seaton Carew, it is alleged.

"She did not want to be in the car with him, but him driving away left her
little choice," said prosecutor Tina Dempster.

"She was in the taxi against her will for around an hour."

The woman told the jury: "I asked him where he was going. He asked me didn't I
have time to go for a drive. I started to feel really uneasy.

I said no."

She said she called a friend and dropped hints to him hoping he would look for
her.

"I was trying to get as much information to him without panicking the driver.

"I didn't know where I was going. It was pitch black. I was really scared of
what he was going to do.

"I thought if I rang the police and struggled I could anger him. There was
nowhere I could run to."

She sent her friend a text saying: "The taxi man won't let me out of the taxi. I
dunno where he's taking me. I just know it's the Seaton road. Will you help me
please?"

She said she secretly made more calls to him and left the line open as she asked
the driver about her destination.

The Crown say Saddique reached over to the woman three times while driving, put
his hand down her top and touched her breast and leg.

"I started panicking even more. I just had visions in my head if he was going to
touch me, he could try and do anything," said the woman.

"I looked at him. He was looking at me just as bold as brass as if it was the
most normal thing in the world.

"I considered just throwing myself out of the car.

"I was scared that he was going to rape me."

She said Saddique asked if she had any condoms as he drove to Seaton Carew,
Hartlepool, Newton Bewley then back to the Billingham area.

He eventually dropped her off at Wolviston Services at about 4am, when the woman
said she collapsed, hysterical, crying and breathless.

Her friend and the police arrived quickly and Saddique was arrested.

Saddique, of Crescent Road, Middlesbrough, denies kidnapping and three counts of
sexual assault.

He told police the woman asked to be taken to Seaton Carew and denied that
anything sexual happened.

Proceeding

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 9, 2008 Friday

Security forces drive back terrorist attack in eastern Algeria - paper

LENGTH: 242 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 8 May

[Report by Lynda Nacer: "Constantine: Terrorist Attack Beaten Off"]

At around midnight on Tuesday [6 May] night into Wednesday morning, a violent
skirmish pitted the security agencies against a terrorist group from the Salafi
Group for Call and Combat [GSPC; the group now known as Al-Qa'idah in the Land
of the Islamic Maghreb, or AQLIM] in the spot known as Fourth Kilometre, on the
road linking Constantine [400 km east of Algiers] to Batna. The group, armed
probably with AK47s, according to well informed source, targeted a police road
block whose elements, most fortunately, successfully repelled the attack.

As for the terrorists, whose number has not been determined, they retreated
towards Oued Bou Merzoug, this still according to our sources.

Moreover, eyewitnesses revealed that the skirmish occurred several minutes after
they heard an explosion. This was a news report which, however, has not been
confirmed. This was the second attack that was perpetrated in fewer than two
weeks on the security agencies. Involved, according to our sources, is the same
armed group which, this past 21 April, machine-gunned a police vehicle at the
Zouaghi apartment complex near the new customs headquarters. The vehicle's three
occupants, who were hit by bullets, had been targeted upon their return from
Mohamed-Boudiaf Airport.

Source: Liberte website, Algiers, in French 8 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               May 9, 2008 Friday

Our sex attack terror

BYLINE:  CARL EVE  Crime Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 536 words


Two teenage girls  sexually assaulted in a terrifying knifepoint attack have
spoken of their traumatic ordeal - one saying she now feels 'violated'.

The two girls - whom The Herald is referring to as Charlotte and Rose to protect
their real identities - fell prey to the man while they were out jogging on
April 26 along a St Judes cyclepath.

Despite their ordeal, the girls - both 14 - remain remarkably upbeat, positive
and modestly brave, claiming it was 'lucky' they were the ones attacked because
"There were 10-year-olds around and they wouldn't have been able to defend
themselves".

The girls, who both live in south-east Plymouth,  had decided to go for a run to
blow away the cobwebs of the day. Charlotte said: "I was feeling rough, called
Rose and we decided to go for a jog.

"We expected to be out an hour."

Rose is quick to stress it was not dark; Charlotte adds:  "It was a nice
evening".

Both girls, despite fiddling with MP3 players for their run, spotted 'lots of
people' in the park, the basketball ground and the 'Tothill enclosure',
including some they knew.

As they approached the railway bridge over the cyclepath, near Lucas Terrace,
they saw their attacker whom they described to police as dark-skinned, in his
late twenties and 5ft 10in to 6ft 1in tall. His hair was cut to grade three
length and he was wearing a dark hoody-style top and dark trousers.  Neither
will speak of the attack, but despite their nervous jokes and giggles, it's
clear the assault was terrifying.

Charlotte said: "I feel violated; it's weird, really. I couldn't help Rose; I
felt so helpless, so useless. "I thought,  'What should I do? Should I hit him
with a bottle? Will that just make him angrier and will he kill me?'"Rose admits
she feels the same about her friend: "When you see it on telly you think, 'Hit
him' but when you're there, you freeze and don't know what to do."

"You think: 'He's going to kill me'", said Charlotte.

The girls had screamed for help, causing a woman cyclist to suddenly stop. The
attacker turned his attention to her, sexually assaulting her in his frenzy,
allowing the girls to flee and get help. "We had to run away from her," said
Rose quietly. "We felt really guilty for running away."

The pair raced 50 metres, screaming hysterically to a man they had spotted.

Charlotte said: "We were yelling, 'That man's just attacked us - now he's
attacking her. Try to help her - now'".

By the time the girls had run all the way home they were sobbing, shaking
wrecks, leaving Charlotte's mother to try to work out what had happened before
calling the police, who arrived within seconds.  Both girls bravely decided to
give video statements that same night, to ensure their freshness and detail.

Charlotte said: "I don't want one man stopping the rest of my life. I want to
get on with it."

Both agree the attacker needs to be caught and urge the public to come forward
with any information.

Rose asks simply: "Imagine if it was you - would you want him caught?"

Contact police on 08452 777444 or call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111
quoting reference number EC/08/4448.

A 26 year-old Plymouth man has been arrested in connection with the attack and
bailed until June 9.

ceve@theplymouthherald.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 Evening Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                               May 9, 2008 Friday

Benefit cheat claimed loved ones died in terror attack

SECTION: REGIONAL

LENGTH: 347 words


A BENEFIT cheat who said his loved ones had died in the 7/7 terrorist attacks in
London has been jailed.

Lieing Afzal Ramzan was told by a judge "you don't know the truth from fiction"
after he claimed his brother-in-law and nephew had perished in the terrorist
atrocity.

The serial crook was already legally claiming job seekers allowance in the name
of his jailed brother.

But he went on to make two bogus applications for Emergency Community Care
Grants.

The 27-year-old claimed in one of those applications he needed to flee as his
abusive father was about to return from Pakistan.

And in the other he used the terrorist attacks on the capital as part of the
scam, Newcastle Crown Court heard.

"You can make application for an award to cover emergency situations," said
Susan Hirst, prosecuting.

"The first he submitted was a claim for a grant to cover removal costs for his
sister in Leeds, falsely stating she had lost her husband and son in the London
bombings."

Ramzan, living in Rectory Road, Bensham, Gateshead, when he concocted the con,
was finally rumbled when brother Yasin made a legitimate benefit inquiry shortly
before his prison release in June, 2006.

"Routine checks carried out revealed job seekers allowance was already being
paid to someone using his name and had been since February 2005," Miss Hirst
told the court.

Ramzan, who had pocketed £2,387 from the fiddle, admitted 15 charges of making
false statements to get benefit.

He already has a string of convictions for dishonesty, including deceptions and
perverting justice.

Jailing him for 15 months, Judge Beatrice Bolton said only custody could be
justified and hit out at his cruel confidence trick. "You are an inveterate
liar," she told Ramzan.

"You don't know truth from fiction.

"This is a case where you deliberately went out to defraud the department by
pretending to be your brother."

Judge Bolton said the emergency grant applications had been sent using "very
unpleasant and unpalatable" lies.

She told Ramzan "This has got to stop and the time has come when you must
receive an immediate custodial sentence."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                         May 9, 2008 Friday 1:06 PM BST

BLAME YOURSELF IF BORIS MISHANDLES TERROR ATTACK, SAYS MP

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 133 words


Londoners should blame themselves if Boris Johnson mishandles the aftermath of a
terrorist attack on the capital, a Labour MP suggested.

Nottingham North Labour MP Graham Allen insisted voters were wrong to elect the
Tory as mayor last week because he could not organise ``a cup of tea.

``Boris Johnson the mayor of a big city? I wouldn't send him out for a cup of
tea, frankly,'' Mr Allen told BBC Radio Nottingham.

``I hope it doesn't happen, but the first time there is a disaster or a terrible
bombing or explosion in London, I hope those people will think again about what
they actually did last week.''

Mr Allen told the Press Association he stood by his comments, but stressed he
``hoped very much nothing of that sort (a terrorist attack) does happen''.

``It was a live interview,'' he added. end

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        May 9, 2008 Friday 12:41 PM BST

BLAME YOURSELF IF BORIS MISHANDLES TERROR ATTACK, SAYS MP

BYLINE: James Tapsfield, PA Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 148 words


Londoners should blame themselves if Boris Johnson mishandles the aftermath of a
terrorist attack on the capital, a Labour MP suggested today.

Nottingham North MP Graham Allen insisted voters were wrong to elect the Tory as
mayor last week because he could not organise ``a cup of tea''.

``Boris Johnson the mayor of a big city? I wouldn't send him out for a cup of
tea, frankly,'' Mr Allen told BBC Radio Nottingham.

``I hope it doesn't happen, but the first time there is a disaster or a terrible
bombing or explosion in London, I hope those people will think again about what
they actually did last week.''

Mr Allen told the Press Association he stood by his comments, but stressed he
``hoped very much nothing of that sort (a terrorist attack) does happen''.

``It was a live interview,'' he added.

A spokeswoman for the Mayor said: ``These irresponsible comments are not worthy
of a response.''

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 14, 2008 Wednesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in India

LENGTH: 106 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 14 May: Turkey condemned the terrorist attacks which hit Jaipur, capital
city of Rajasthan state of India, on Tuesday [13 May].

Turkish Foreign Ministry stated on Wednesday that Turkey was sorry and uneasy
over the terrorist attacks which killed more than 80 people and injured nearly
150 others.

The ministry said Turkey shared the pain of Indian people and offered
condolences to the relatives of victims.

The ministry stressed the vital importance of international cooperation in fight
against terrorism.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1348 gmt 14 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             May 14, 2008 Wednesday

Seven bombs kill 60 in India 'terror attack'

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 393 words


The bombs, many of them strapped to bicycles, exploded within minutes of each
other in Jaipur's pink walled city, a magnet for foreign tourists.

It was the deadliest bomb attack in India in nearly two years. About 150 people
were wounded and local television stations broadcast appeals for blood
donations.

Police officers said no group had admitted responsibility for the blasts.

Television channels quoted government and intelligence officials as blaming
Pakistani or Bangladeshi Islamist militant groups.

"According to the information I have received, 60 people have died and 150 have
been injured," Rajasthan's Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje was quoted by the
Press Trust of India as saying.

"At around 7.30pm there was a big noise and suddenly I found people in a pool of
blood," said Govind Sharma, a priest at a Hindu temple, through tears.

"I've lost my father in the bomb blast."

Officials said the apparent motive for the bombs was to undermine a peace
process between India and Pakistan or foment communal violence in India.

Indian Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee is due to visit Islamabad in little
more than a week to review the four-year-old peace process, his first since a
new, civilian government took over in Pakistan.

Prime Minister Manmohan Singh appealed for calm. The British and US governments
said there could be no justification for killing innocent people.

At the main government hospital in Jaipur, more than 100 people crowded around
the doors of the emergency ward, many screaming for information about their
relatives. Police officers at the doors yelled for people to donate blood.

Police and state government officials say some or all of the bombs were left on
bicycles and detonated using timers. An eighth bomb was defused by police.

Officials said they were not aware of any foreigners being killed.

Two bombs were planted near Hindu temples, where large crowds gather every
Tuesday in honour of the monkey god Hanuman.

"It was obviously a terror attack," AS Gill, Director- General of Police in the
state of Rajasthan, told reporters close to the scene of one of the blasts.

The blasts come just a few days after fresh firing along the border between
India and Pakistan in disputed Kashmir. India said Islamist militants had been
trying to sneak in.

Alerts were issued in the Indian capital New Delhi and the financial capital of
Mumbai.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            May 14, 2008, Wednesday

Terror group blamed for bomb attack

BYLINE: David Sharrock

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 90 words


(Photograph) - SPAMOUNT An Irish republican terrorist group was blamed for the
attempted murder of an off-duty policeman after a booby-trap bomb was placed
under his car (David Sharrock writes).

The officer, a Roman Catholic in the Police Service of Northern Ireland, was
injured in the Irish border village of Spamount, Co Tyrone. The organisation
behind the attack is thought to be Oghlaigh na h'Eireann - Army of Ireland - a
splinter group of the Provisional IRA that was behind a series of bomb hoaxes in
Cookstown, Co Tyrone, last weekend.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo. Caption not available

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday

China condemns terrorist attack in India - spokesman

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

["China Condemns Terrorist Attack in India" - Xinhua headline]

BEIJING, May 15 (Xinhua) - The Chinese government has strongly condemned
Tuesday's terrorist bombings in India's Jaipur city, which left more than 60
people dead and 150 injured, said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang on
Thursday.

Qin made the remarks when responding to a journalist question, adding the
Chinese government would like to express deep grief over the victims in the
terrorist attack and convey sincere condolences to the relatives of the victims
and those wounded in the attack.

He said the Chinese government is firmly opposed to terrorism of any form and is
ready to work together with the international community to make unremitting
efforts to safeguard world peace and stability.

Suspected international terrorists set off eight near-simultaneous bomb blasts
on Tuesday evening in crowded markets and a packed Hindu temple in Jaipur, the
capital city of the Indian state of Rajasthan.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1220 gmt 15 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday

Four injured in "terrorist" attack on staff of Iran embassy in Iraq

LENGTH: 104 words


Text of report by state-run Iranian TV channel one on 15 May

A terrorist attack on a car carrying the staff of the Iranian embassy in Iraq
has left four injured. This armed attack took place this afternoon when the
employees of the Iranian embassy in Baghdad, who were heading for Kazemayn for
pilgrimage, were attacked in the 14 Ramadan bridge area. In this attack three
Iranian and one local employees of the Iranian embassy in Iraq were injured and
were taken to Karkh hospital. All four are said to be in satisfactory condition.

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
1630 gmt 15 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday

"Easily" accessible chemicals expose South Africa to terror attacks in 2010

LENGTH: 218 words


Text of report by South African newspaper Business Day website on 14 May

[Report by Wilson Johwa, Political Correspondent: "Chemical Attack 'Threat to
2010'"]

EASILY available industrial compounds made SA [South Africa] vulnerable to a
chemical and biological weapons attack during the Soccer World Cup.

Philip Coleman, the executive manager of Protechnik, a subsidiary of the
state-owned arms manufacturer Armscor, said chemical substances from the Cold
War were no longer a major threat. Many had been destroyed since the adoption of
the chemical weapons convention almost 10 years ago.

"Where we see a greater threat is from toxic industrial chemicals," Coleman said
yesterday. These substances, such as chlorine, were easier to get hold of and
were already widely transported in SA.

This is something a terrorist would find far more attractive than dealing with
chemical war agents in a clandestine laboratory, he said. Given better
technology, the gap between chemical and biological weapons was narrowing.

However, the military, with help from Protechnik, a specialised chemicals
company, was working at developing contingency plans that included acquiring
detection equipment to be used to protect soccer stadiums and fan parks, said
Coleman.

Source: Business Day website, Johannesburg, in English 14 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday

Spokesman condemns "terrorist" attack on Iranian diplomats

LENGTH: 234 words


Text of report by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News Agency website

Tehran, 15 May: Foreign Ministry spokesman [Mohammad Ali Hoseyni] has condemned
the terrorist attack on four Iranian diplomats and employees of the Iranian
embassy in Baghdad and described the act as criminal.

According to the Fars News Agency, Hoseyni stressed on Thursday [15 May] that
occupation and terrorism are the two main factors for insecurity and instability
in Iraq, adding: The main responsibility for the safety of diplomats and
political and international centres in Iraq lies with the occupying forces and
the negligence and suspicious approaches of the American forces towards security
issues has led to an increase in insecurity and the growing concern of every
one.

Hoseyni referred to the explicitly threatening remarks of the American president
against Iranians in Iraq, which have been reflected in the country's media, and
pointed out: Such remarks encourage inhumane behaviour and are against the
international regulations concerning occupying forces and active terrorist
groups in Iraq.

He said that such criminal actions are the result of the wrong policies of
American occupying forces and stressed: The Islamic Republic of Iran will
seriously pursue investigation into this incident through the officials of the
Iraqi government.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 1846 gmt 15 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday

Iran holds US government responsible for terror attacks on diplomats - agency

LENGTH: 49 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 15 May: Iran holds the US government responsible for terror attacks on
Iranian Embassy staff in Baghdad on Thursday [15 May].

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1850 gmt 15 May
08

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday

US agents carry terror attacks on Iranian diplomats - agency

LENGTH: 57 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Baghdad, 15 May: US agents carried terror attacks on Iranian Embassy staff in
Baghdad on Thursday [15 May].

Three Iranian diplomats and one local staff of the Embassy were wounded.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1839 gmt 15 May
08

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Gwent

                             May 15, 2008 Thursday

Boy in dog attack terror

BYLINE: Charles Booth

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 250 words

DATELINE: Campaign Series


A TEN-YEAR-OLD boy was bitten by a dog while he was riding on his bike and now
needs crutches to walk until the wound heals.

Danny Morgan from Heol Edward Lewis, Gelligaer was happily riding his bike and
the Alsatian cross jumped up and bit his leg.

The police were informed of the situation and the dog was destroyed after it was
identified.

Danny's mum Teresa said: "Danny is scared of other dogs now and is weary of
going out because of what happened to him.

"He is a very active boy and is a great drummer. He can't play now because of
his injuries and won't be able to go to his lessons."

Now Danny has had to take medicine to heal the gash and wear a bandage to stop
it getting infected.

He said: "I was riding along and felt the dog bite me but I did not realise it
was that bad until I rode off.

"I got to the play area where we go and had to lie down because of the pain."

His mum said: "Some of Danny's friends mums came out to help him and saw what
had happened to him so they bandaged his leg up."

Teresa Morgan had warned the authorities about this particular dog and was
concerned that is could attack someone.

She said: "Our dogs are kept behind a gate and can't get out. I am sorry that
the dog, which attacked Danny had to be put down.

"Danny is used to his own pet dogs but now he is very wary of dogs he doesn't
know. The bite will heal but the psychological scars will not go so easily. I
think my children should be able to play outside without having to worry about
getting bitten."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ten-year-old Danny Morgan by his beloved drums

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 16, 2008 Friday

Bush is accused of attacking Obama over 'terrorist talks'

BYLINE: Alex Spillius in Washington and Carolynne Wheeler

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 395 words


PRESIDENT George W Bush stepped into a political row yesterday when he denounced
those who would talk to

"terrorists and radicals'' - a remark seen as an attack on Senator Barack Obama,
the Democratic presidential hopeful.

Addressing Israel's parliament, the Knesset, on the 60th anniversary of the
country's foundation, the president said: "Some seem to believe that we should
negotiate with the terrorists and radicals, as if some ingenious argument will
persuade them they have been wrong all along.

"We have heard this foolish delusion before. As Nazi tanks crossed into Poland
in 1939, an American senator declared, 'Lord, if I could only have talked to
Hitler, all this might have been avoided.' We have an obligation to call this
what it is - the false comfort of appeasement, which has been repeatedly
discredited by history.''

Although Mr Bush made no mention of Mr Obama, the senator interpreted the speech
as a "political attack'' on himself and issued a swift response.

"George Bush knows that I have never supported engagement with terrorists, and
the president's extraordinary politicisation of foreign policy and the politics
of fear do nothing to secure the American people or our stalwart ally, Israel,''
he said in a statement.

Mr Obama has urged unconditional talks with Iran and said he would be willing to
meet the leaders of Cuba and North Korea, two countries that America considers
rogue states.

The White House denied that the president's words were directed at the senator.
An official said Mr Bush had made similar comments before and there were several
people, notably ex-President Jimmy Carter, who recently met Hamas leaders, who
he could have had in mind.

In his speech, Mr Bush pledged America's eternal support for Israel.

"Some people suggest that if the United States would just break ties with
Israel, all our problems in the Middle East would go away. This is a tired
argument that buys into the propaganda of our enemies, and America rejects it
utterly,'' he said.

"Israel's population may be just over seven million. But when you confront
terror and evil, you are 307 million strong, because America stands with you.''

Mr Bush condemned Iran's nuclear ambitions and promised that al-Qa'eda,
Hizbollah and Hamas would be defeated "as Muslims across the region recognise
the emptiness of the terrorists' vision and the injustice of their cause''.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 17, 2008 Saturday

Ministry presents details on USA involvement in "terrorist attacks" in Iran

LENGTH: 738 words


Text of report by state-run Iranian TV channel one on 17 May

The Ministry of Intelligence of the Islamic Republic of Iran in an announcement
has revealed further details on the uncovering and neutralizing an
America-affiliated terrorist network. The text of the announcement is as
follows:

In the name of God, the Merciful, the Compassionate. O respectable and
revolutionary people of Iran, following the failure of American statesmen in
fulfilling a number of their policies, measures and plots in the region and in
the peripheral areas of our country, the intelligence service of this country
[USA] attempted to take anti-human measures inside Iran by providing
comprehensive training and financial support as well as weapons to a terrorist
network.

America had equipped this network with various terrorist items such as chemical
substances, explosives, and cyanide - a dangerous and poisonous substance for
the production of the cyanide gas - and had directly led and guided it inside
the Iranian territories. In one of its plans, this network carried out the
explosion in the Seyyed al-Shohada of Shiraz. In this brutal crime, a number of
innocent people of our country were martyred and injured.

We inform our dear fellow countrymen that their hardworking offspring in the
Ministry of Intelligence, by finding the first clues about this terrorist group
and with the cooperation of the Police force, in a complicated and extensive
intelligence operation, chased the members of the group. While this group
according to a devised plan in America intended, in the continuation of its
terrorist acts, to carry out some other terrorist attacks, such as the explosion
in the Tehran book fair and some other academic, scientific and religious
centres as well as targeting people in some crowded places in various cities of
the country, the anonymous soldiers of the Lord of the Age [twelfth Shi'i imam],
may God hasten his reappearance, by carrying out an accurate intelligence
operation on 18 Ordibehesht 1387 [7 May 2008] arrested the members of this
terrorist network in Fars, Khuzestan, Gilan, West Azarbayjan and Tehran
provinces.

During the operations, a member of this grouplet was killed. The rest of its
members are under arrest. The information gained during the confessions of the
suspects indicates that the American officers had set the main objective of this
obliterated group to create intimidation and terror among people in various
Iranian cities.

The terrorist attacks against Russian consulate in Gilan and the explosion in
the oil pipelines in the southern part of Iran were among other sabotage targets
of this group. Therefore, the American centres had provided scuba-diving
training courses for the members of this network in order for them to identify
the location of the underwater oil pipes in the Persian Gulf.

The equipment which have been seized from this group are as follows: Maps,
films, pictures and charts of important and sensitive centres of various cities
targeted for terrorist operations; a large number of weapons and detonators, a
considerable amount of chemicals with high explosive power, eight kilograms of
cyanide capable of being converted into destructive and fatal gas, and a number
of anti-chemical gas masks.

The Ministry of Intelligence is proud to announce that the anonymous soldiers of
the Lord of the Age, may God hasten his reappearance, while offsetting the
objectives of this terrorist group have gathered important information about the
body organizing this network inside America. In this respect, there are credible
documents available to the Ministry of Intelligence which link this network to
certain centres in the United States and the Zionist regime, and their relation
and cooperation with anti-Iranian terrorist groups. Complementary investigations
on the group - which officially holds anti-religious stances - is still
continuing, the result of which will be reported to the respectable people of
Iran in the coming days.

It is natural that parallel to the progress in the investigations and as the
information become more complete, international legal and diplomatic measures
will also be taken by the authorized bodies in the country against America and
Britain.

[Sign off] Ministry of Intelligence of the Islamic Republic of Iran

[Date] 28 Ordibehesht 1387 [17 May 2008]

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
0930 gmt 17 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 17, 2008 Saturday

Iran holds US responsible for terror attack on diplomats

LENGTH: 119 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 17 May: Iran has denounced terror attacks on Iranian diplomats at
Iranian Embassy in Baghdad and held the US responsible for violating diplomatic
immunity in Iraq.

Foreign Minister Manuchehr Mottaki strongly condemned the terror attacks.

On Thursday [15 May], US agents opened fire at motorcade of Iranian diplomats,
wounding three diplomats and one staffer of the Iranian Embassy in Baghdad.

Mottaki assigned Iran's Ambassador to Baghdad Hassan Kazemi Qomi to work with
Iraqi officials to transfer the diplomats to Iran for medical treatment.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1143 gmt 17 May
08

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 19, 2008 Monday

Terrorists who attacked Iranian diplomats not known yet - spokesman

LENGTH: 256 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 19 May: Foreign Ministry spokesman, Mohammad-Ali Hoseyni said on Monday
[19 May] that the terrorists who opened fire on Iranian diplomats motorcade in
Baghdad have not been identified yet.

Hoseyni told reporters that Iran's Embassy in Baghdad is following up the case
through the help of Iraqi officials.

Three Iranian diplomats and one local staffer of Embassy in Baghdad were wounded
in an assassination bid on May 15.

US agents opened fire at their motorcade at the diplomatic compound on northern
neighbourhood of Baghdad.

Hoseyni reiterated that the terror attack on Iranian diplomats aims to damage
Tehran-Baghdad friendly and brotherly relations.

Iran said on Saturday that it will not withhold support for the government of
Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki despite the Thursday's terror attack on Iranian
diplomats in Baghdad.

Iranian Embassy in Baghdad said in a statement that the Iraqi security officials
promised to arrest those involved in the terrorist operation and hand them over
to Iraqi judiciary officials.

"Such cowardly terrorist attacks cannot stop Iranian diplomats from carrying out
their duties as this is not the first time that diplomats and the staff of
Iran's Embassy in Baghdad were subject to such terrorist acts," said the
statement.

It said that perpetrators of such terrorist attacks "are enemies of the two
neighbouring countries".

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1110 gmt 19 May
08

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 19, 2008 Monday
                                 Ulster Edition

SECTARIAN ATTACK FURY;
TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 66 words


A FAMILY with an eight-month-old baby are moving house after a sectarian attack.

Protestant pensioners who were also targeted in Twaddell Avenue, North Belfast,
yesterday were saved by toughened glass.

Residents spokesman Gerald Solinas said: "Most of those here are pensioners.
This is no way to be living."

Sinn Fein MLA Gerry Kelly said: "These attacks are completely wrong."

One man has been arrested.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 20, 2008 Tuesday

India police get letter threatening terror attacks on 23 May

LENGTH: 503 words


Text of report by independent Indian daily The Asian Age website

[By Amita Verma]

Lucknow [in Uttar Pradesh State, northern India], 19 May: After the serial bomb
blasts in Jaipur last week, the Jaish-i-Mohammad has warned of blasts in New
Delhi, Lucknow, Agra and Aligarh on 23 May.

The warning was sent through a letter addressed to the Government Railway Police
[GRP] in Aligarh. A GRP inspector opened the letter on Sunday night [18 May,
local time] and immediately informed senior officials about the contents of the
letter.

The letter, typed in Hindi, warns of "devastating attacks" on important places
and important trains on 23 May. It says that in New Delhi, attacks could be
carried out at Parliament House, Jamia Millia Islamia, the Akshardham temple,
Connaught Place and the Red Fort area; whereas in Lucknow the attacks would be
on the Gomti Express, the sports stadium, temples, the university and at railway
and bus stations.

In Aligarh, the letter warns of attacks at the Aligarh Muslim University,
Mangalatayan, Centre Point and railway and bus stations, as well as the Shatabdi
Express; whereas in Agra the target would be the Taj Mahal and the Red Fort.

The name of the terrorist organization Jaish-i-Mohammad is typed at the end of
the letter.

Though investigations into the origin of the letter have already begun, the
Uttar Pradesh police has started intensive checking of all important trains and
buses. Public announcements are being made at railway and bus stations, asking
passengers to remain vigilant and report any unattended baggage. They are also
being asked to cooperate with police personnel during search operations.

Police personnel in plain clothes and bomb disposal squads have also been
deployed at all vital installations.

"This is a holiday season and there is great rush in trains and buses. The
letter could be fake, but we are not taking any chances and are taking maximum
care to avert the possibility of an attack," said a senior GRP official.

Top police officials were tight-lipped on the letter but said that
investigations were on in the right direction.

In a related development, Muslims clerics have decided that after Friday prayers
all imams in Uttar Pradesh will make an announcement asking Muslims not to
provide any help, support or shelter to persons involved in terrorist
activities.

"We are sending directives in this regard to all imams in urban and rural areas,
asking them to plead with community members on this issue. Muslims living in the
rural interior are mostly illiterate and are easily trapped by terrorist groups.
We will be quoting from the Holy Quran that it is against Islam to target the
innocent," said Maulana Khalid Rashid Firangi Mahali, Naib Imam of Idgah and
convener of the "Movement Against Terrorism."

It may be recalled that the Darul-Uloom in Deoband had issued a fatwa against
terrorism in February this year, decrying those who indulge in mindless violence
in the name of "jihad".

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 20 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                            May 21, 2008, Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

The Bigger Picture: Birmingham's tall story;
Terrorist attacks have not curbed Birmingham's love affair with tall buildings.

BYLINE: Paul Dale reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 785 words


British Land Tower Corner of Colmore Row and Newhall Street Yet to get planning
permission 35-storeys 440ft

Landmark office development proposed to replace the NatWest Tower.

A pounds 160 million scheme to include high quality office space, retail and a
rooftop restaurant.

The sensitive location, on the Birmingham Ridge at the highest point of the city
centre and in the Colmore Row Conservation Area, has already provoked strong
opinions.

Birmingham Civic society says it is 90 per cent happy with the height and
design, but the Birmingham Victorian Society says the proposal is an
"incongruous leviathan "which will detract from the splendour of the Council
House and St Philip's Cathedral.

The structure will be 12 storeys higher than the existing NatWest Tower, making
it by far the tallest building in this part of the city centre. British Land is
promising the new tower will be a shining example of sustainability, with a
green roof to provide a habitat for protected bird species.

Ballymore Snow Hill Snow Hill Queensway Work about to begin 43 storeys 450ft

Described as the tallest purely residential block in Birmingham, the new tower
will have 330 apartments and will be linked to a 23-storey five-star hotel and
conference centre.

Both towers will open out onto one of five new public squares, forming
pedestrian links with St Chad's Cathedral, the Jewellery Quarter and the Gun
Quarter. Ballymore's pounds 400 million Snow Hill scheme, on a site which has
lain vacant for 30 years, also includes two large office blocks which are
already under construction.

V Building Suffolk Street Queensway Work may begin later this year 50 storeys
500ft

Part of the Arena Central development and designed by world-renowned architect
Eric Khune, the V Building will be the tallest habitable structure in
Birmingham.

Developers Dandara wowed city planners when they unveiled proposals for a pounds
150 million soaring glass-fronted structure that will include 600 residential
apartments, finedining restaurants, a sky bar and observatory.

Residents will be able to enjoy a library, a spa and a private club room.

Close to the Mailbox and Brindleyplace, and a short walk from the Bullring, the
V Building will "catapult Birmingham into a city of real international kudos,
such as Chicago or Barcelona", according to Dandara managing director Martin
Clancy. The ground floors will be public areas with a mix of bars, cafes and
shops.

Beetham Tower Holloway Circus Opened 2005 40 storeys 400ft

Postmodern shimmering glass structure forming a bold new gateway to the city
centre, Beetham Tower houses an SAS Radisson hotel and 150 apartments as well as
six fivebedroom luxury apartments with private balconies.

Originally planned as 44 storeys with additional spires shooting from the roof,
the project had to be scaled down following objections from the Civil Aviation
Authority.

Broad Street Tower Broad Street No date for work to begin 38 storeys 400ft
Developers Richardson Cordwell won planning permission a year ago for this
pounds 100 million scheme.

It will be on the south side of Broad Street opposite Sheepcote Street and the
Brasshouse pub.

The completed structure is likely to contain a 192-bedroom hotel, 342 apartment
and 339 parking spaces.

New Street Towers New Street Station Completed by 2013 30 storeys 280ft Proposed
entrance to the refurbished New Street Station, the two towers will be built at
the junction of Hill Street and Stephenson Street.

One of the towers will be largely residential and the other commercial.

British Telecom Tower Lionel Street Opened in 1969 35 floors 500ft The tallest
building in Birmingham and one of the city's best known landmarks.

Used for long distance communications, the tower supports are built over the
Birmingham and Fazeley Canal.

Alpha Tower Suffolk Street Queensway Opened 1974 28 storeys 328ft Prominent
Birmingham landmark, used largely as council offices.

Based on the Pirelli Building in Milan by architect Richard Seiffert.

Generally regarded as one of the more tasteful of Birmingham's post-war office
developments.

VTP200 Eastside Under discussion 656ft

Proposal for a vertical theme park which will, if it is built, be by far
Birmingham's tallest building.

The pounds 95 million structure would include a range of thrilling rides as well
as an observation deck, hotel, bars and restaurants.

The Rotunda New Street Opened in 1965 23 storeys 265ft

Iconic Brummie landmark at entrance to Bullring shopping centre, awarded Grade
ll listed status in 2000.

Survived IRA bombings in 1974, recently restored to provide luxury apartments.

Joseph Chamberlain Clock Tower Birmingham University Built 1900 328ft For
decades Birmingham's tallest building, until overtaken by the BT Tower.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reaching for the skies (from left): The Rotunda, New Street Towers,
Alpha Towers, Chamberlain Tower, Beetham Tower, Broad Street Tower, British Land
Tower, Ballymore Snow Hill, V Building, BT Tower and VTP 200 Montage, Mike
Evetts

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                             May 22, 2008 Thursday

Woman tells of her alley attack terror

BYLINE:  Ric Sumner

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 316 words


A Woman has spoken of her terrifying attack in a Cheltenham alley.

The victim, who does not want to be named, was phoning her husband from outside
a club when the attacker pounced.

She was hit over the head from behind and dragged face-down into an alley.

Her husband had to listen on the other end of the phone as she screamed for help
and fought to break free.

Her attacker ran off.

The woman, in her 40s, is covered in cuts and bruises and unable to sleep or
walk.

But she is determined to warn other women to be on their guard.

She said: "I want this man caught because he is dangerous.

"He planned everything and it could have been anyone.

"Mentally I'm fine - it will take more than someone like that to knock me back -
but I don't want a young girl to be his next victim.

"Afterwards I had a few tears and wanted to stay in bed under the blanket, but
that's not me."

The attack happened near the Thirteen Degrees club in St George's Road at 1.50am
on Sunday.

The woman was celebrating her niece's birthday with family and friends when she
left the club to call her husband.

In her struggle with the assailant, she got a glimpse of his face before he fled
towards Bayshill Road.

The victim went back to the scene with her husband the next day and found her
earrings and watch in the alley.

At least one couple saw the attack and ran to help, and the woman hopes they
will step forward and give statements to the police.

Her husband said the moment he heard his wife scream and the phone go dead was
"hellish".

He said: "I jumped in the car and didn't stop for a single red light - it was
frightening and I hope I never go through it again."

The attacker is described as about 5ft 10in tall, of medium build, with short,
dark, wavy hair, dark trousers and a distinctive black and white
vertically-striped leather jacket.

Anyone with information should call police on 0845 090 1234, or Crimestoppers
anonymously.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 31


                     Copyright 2008 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 22, 2008 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

I FEARED HE WAS BOMB;
GUARD'S TERROR AT STONE ATTACK

BYLINE: BY MIRROR REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 389 words


THE hero security guard who stopped Michael Stone from getting into Stormont
yesterday said she feared he was a "human bomb".

Giving evidence at Belfast Crown Court, Susan Porter said she could feel
"something hard" around his stomach, adding that at the time, "I thought he was
a human bomb".

After being searched, it emerged that he was wearing a bullet-proof jacket when
he tried to storm Parliament Buildings in November 2006.

Stone, 53, of no fixed address, denies attempting to murder Sinn Fein's Gerry
Adams and Martin McGuinness, as well as 12 other charges including possessing
nail and pipe bombs with intent and three knives.

His defence case is that the incident was not an attack but part of an artistic
performance. Ms Porter told the court when she first saw Stone approaching, she
thought he was "frail" and went to give him a hand.

Asked if Stone said anything to her, Ms Porter told prosecuting QC Charles
Adair: "Yes he said 'love', it was quite timid at first, 'love' and then he
pulled a gun and held it to my face."

She said Stone told her to move back "or he would shoot me". Ms Porter "leapt
forwards towards the gun" and began to struggle with Stone.

Assisted by colleague Peter Lachanudis, the gun was eventually wrestled from
Stone and Ms Porter said she realised it was an imitation firearm.

She told Mr Adair that she asked Stone what was in the bag only to be told there
was "everything, grenades - it's going to go up, get out of here".

Defence QC Arthur Harvey told Ms Porter his instructions from Stone were that
throughout the incident, "you behaved impeccably" towards Stone, and apart from
a few "modest inaccuracies" because of the pressure of the situation, her
evidence was correct.

Ms Porter agreed with Mr Harvey's suggestion that Stone treated the security
staff holding him in a "polite manner" but that when he spotted the press and
media filiming him, "he shouted obscenities, sometimes about Sinn Fein and
Paisley, seeking to draw the attention of the press".

Mr Lachanudis also told the court that initially he believed Stone was a
"suicide bomber".

Mr Harvey suggested to Mr Lachanudis that Stone was not a suicide bomber and
that no tubes were strapped to his chest but it was "pure imagination at play".

But the guard was firm in his belief that they were on his chest.

The trial continues tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEROES Security guards Peter Lachanudis and Susan Porter at court
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 23, 2008 Friday

CAFE BOMBER IS ISL AMIC CONVERT;
Gentle giant held over 'terror attack'

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS and ANTHONY WALTON

SECTION: NEWS; 7

LENGTH: 415 words


ANTI-TERROR police were last night probing a botched suspected suicide bombing -
after an explosion in a restaurant toilet.

A Muslim convert with a history of mental illness was under arrest in hospital.

Senior police sources named him as 22-year-old Nicky Reilly.

He was seriously injured when one of two home-made devices went off in the
toilet in Exeter, Devon.

Police last night took the unusual step of releasing his picture, after Reilly
was earlier captured by a CCTV camera carrying a small black rucksack.

He had adopted the Muslim faith but police said had been "preyed upon and
radicalised" by extremists.

Devon and Cornwall police's Deputy Chief Constable Tony Melville said that
Reilly had been taken advantage of in his "vulnerable" state.

The bomb drama began yesterday lunchtime when terrified onlookers fled at least
one explosion in the toilet of the Giraffe restaurant.

CCTV pictures show Reilly in the street outside the restaurant carrying a small
black rucksack.

Large parts of Exeter city centre were evacuated as a major antiterror operation
swung into action.

Armed police and bomb disposal units swarmed the Princesshay Shopping Centre and
set up a huge security cordon.

Two explosive devices were found in the toilet. Reilly suffered cuts to his eye
and burns to his face.

Last night, his home in Plymouth was being searched by officers.

Neighbours described him as an "easily led" young man who lived for computer
games and his dog.

His nickname is the "Big Friendly Giant" but he changed his name last year
through deed poll to Mohammed Rasheed.

Witness Peter Lacey, who was in the restaurant with his wife, said: "There were
three explosions.

"They sounded more like gunshots than a bomb, like a light bulb exploding. They
came from a locked toilet." Thousands of office and shop workers left for home
when they realised they would not be able to return to work.

Many shoppers were forced to abandon their cars in the main car park inside the
cordon.

Juliette Joffe, director of Giraffe, said: "There was a very small explosion,
nobody was injured except the person who caused the explosion.

"It's now a crime scene and in the hands of the police." Mr Melville confirmed
that reports of other devices at McDonald's, Primark and another shop had proved
groundless.

He said: "We have found no other devices. A forensic examination has begun at
the restaurant." He said that 100 officers were deployed in the city centre and
the cordon will be lifted when public safety had been assured.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEARCH: Officers outside Reilly's home last night
ARRESTED: Police released this picture of Reilly.Below: Dep Ch Con Melville, who
is leading the inquiry
BOMB SCENE: The Giraffe Café in Exeter city centre was sealed off by police
after the blast

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                              May 23, 2008 Friday
                                Glasgow Edition

Bombscare bike wasnt terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 113 words


A CYCLIST who chained his bike up at an airport was shocked when told he could
be a terrorist. Grampian Police moved in after Alan Craigie, 50, left his bike
at Aberdeen Airport because there are no bike lockers.

But officers removed it over fears it held explosives after similar stunts by
the German Bader-Meinhof gang in the 1970s. Mr Craigie had cycled to the airport
before flying to London.

Two days later, he discovered his bike had been taken away under heightened
security measures.

He said: My bike was not subjected to a controlled explosion, nor was the bomb
squad contacted. This potentially lethal device was kept in the police station.

Grampian Police refused to comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alan Craigie: Left bike at airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                              May 23, 2008 Friday
                                Glasgow Edition

Bombscare bike wasnt terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 113 words


A CYCLIST who chained his bike up at an airport was shocked when told he could
be a terrorist. Grampian Police moved in after Alan Craigie, 50, left his bike
at Aberdeen Airport because there are no bike lockers.

But officers removed it over fears it held explosives after similar stunts by
the German Bader-Meinhof gang in the 1970s. Mr Craigie had cycled to the airport
before flying to London.

Two days later, he discovered his bike had been taken away under heightened
security measures.

He said: My bike was not subjected to a controlled explosion, nor was the bomb
squad contacted. This potentially lethal device was kept in the police station.

Grampian Police refused to comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alan Craigie: Left bike at airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                              May 23, 2008 Friday

Man threatened Bluewater terror attack

BYLINE: Court Reporter

SECTION: DARTFORD AND GRAVESEND NEWS (DARTFORD AND GRAVESHAM NEWS)

LENGTH: 346 words


A 33-YEAR-OLD man has pleaded guilty to threatening to blow up Bluewater
shopping centre - despite not knowing its location.

Saeed Ghafoor, from Southampton, claimed he was plotting to pack three
limousines with gas canisters and detonate them at Britain's largest shopping
centre.

Former English teacher Ghafoor admitted a charge of threatening to destroy or
damage property when he appeared at the Old Bailey today (May 23).

The court heard Ghafoor was serving a 12-month prison sentence for trying to
strangle his sister when he made the threat to prison officers at HMP Haverigg
in Cumbria in February.

Ghafoor asked to speak to the prison liaison officer saying he had "information
about a terrorist threat".

When prison manager Dawn Pugh visited him in his cell, Ghafoor showed her a plan
written in Arabic and English. This detailed how he was planning to carry out
the terror attack.

Prosecutor Piers Arnold said: "He appeared calm, precise and focused.

"He repeated the threat he was going to blow up the Bluewater shopping centre a
number of times.

"Ms Pugh formed the impression he was an odd character, a loner with mental
health issues."

The court also heard that when questioned further, Ghafoor said Bluewater was in
Exeter.

Mr Arnold added: "He was asked why he selected Bluewater, to which he replied it
was the largest shopping centre in England.

"Ghafoor said it was in protest against American and British soldiers who should
all be blown up'.

"Mr Arnold also said the prison officer formed the opinion Ghafoor was capable
of carrying out the threat or was connected with others who were carrying out
the threat."

Ghafoor said he was motivated by something he saw on TV about the shopping
centre.

Mr Arnold added: "This was not a bomb hoax but the Crown says he made the threat
fully intending the recipient to take it seriously.

"'We are not in a position to know if he genuinely intended to carry out the
threat.

"There is no evidence to suggest he had the means or capability to do so."

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith adjourned sentencing until June 30 for background
reports.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 24, 2008 Saturday

World - Havana attacks US over 'terror funding'

BYLINE: Our Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 434 words


Havana challenged Washington on Thursday to launch a full public inquiry into
why US diplomats served as cash couriers between Miami-based "terrorists" and
counter-revolutionaries in Cuba.

Cuban Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque (right) urged President George W. Bush
and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice not to keep ignoring evidence that US
Interests Section chief Michael Parmly illegally ferried funds to anti-communist
activist Martha Beatriz Roque, who passed the cash on to other dissidents.

Mr Perez observed that Mr Parmly's acts violated Cuban and US laws, as well as
international agreements, including the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
Relations that bans diplomats from breaking the laws of the receiving state or
interfering in its internal affairs.

Havana has released a slew of e-mails, letters, videos and audio tapes that
prove that Mr Parmly was involved in at least three cash deliveries to
dissidents, which were described by the government as "counter-revolutionary or
mercenary small groups" in the service of countries like the US.

Ms Roque received monthly payments of at least $1,500 (£750) from Fundacion
Rescate Juridica, a Miami anti-communist group headed by Santiago Alvarez, a
Cuban-US businessman once convicted in the US of conspiring to collect weapons
to overthrow Cuba's socialist government.

Another prominent dissident, Laura Pollan, has acknowledged receiving at least
$2,400 (£1,200) from Fundacion Rescate Juridica.

She says that she split the money among several members of the Ladies in White,
a group that demands freedom for Cuban "political prisoners."

The US Interests Section in Cuba "encourages, organises, funds and follows in
detail" the dissidents' activities "to destabilise the internal situation," Mr
Perez pointed out.

"We hope that Bush's government takes necessary measures to rectify the conduct
of its diplomats in Cuba," he said, adding:

"We expect a thorough investigation from the US authorities and the results
should be made public."

Mr Perez described it as "cynical" of the US government to limit family
remittances from the US, while at the same time playing the role of intermediary
for "terrorists" who send money to Cuba to support subversive actions by
mercenaries.

He went on to ask: "What would happen if Martha Beatriz Roque lived in the US
and was accused of receiving money from terrorists through Cuban diplomats to
act against the US?"

The State Department has denied wrongdoing, saying that it has long provided
humanitarian aid to opposition leaders in Cuba and it does not discourage
private US organisations from doing so.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 24, 2008 Saturday

World - Havana attacks US over 'terror funding'

BYLINE: Our Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 434 words


Havana challenged Washington on Thursday to launch a full public inquiry into
why US diplomats served as cash couriers between Miami-based "terrorists" and
counter-revolutionaries in Cuba.

Cuban Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque (right) urged President George W. Bush
and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice not to keep ignoring evidence that US
Interests Section chief Michael Parmly illegally ferried funds to anti-communist
activist Martha Beatriz Roque, who passed the cash on to other dissidents.

Mr Perez observed that Mr Parmly's acts violated Cuban and US laws, as well as
international agreements, including the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
Relations that bans diplomats from breaking the laws of the receiving state or
interfering in its internal affairs.

Havana has released a slew of e-mails, letters, videos and audio tapes that
prove that Mr Parmly was involved in at least three cash deliveries to
dissidents, which were described by the government as "counter-revolutionary or
mercenary small groups" in the service of countries like the US.

Ms Roque received monthly payments of at least $1,500 (£750) from Fundacion
Rescate Juridica, a Miami anti-communist group headed by Santiago Alvarez, a
Cuban-US businessman once convicted in the US of conspiring to collect weapons
to overthrow Cuba's socialist government.

Another prominent dissident, Laura Pollan, has acknowledged receiving at least
$2,400 (£1,200) from Fundacion Rescate Juridica.

She says that she split the money among several members of the Ladies in White,
a group that demands freedom for Cuban "political prisoners."

The US Interests Section in Cuba "encourages, organises, funds and follows in
detail" the dissidents' activities "to destabilise the internal situation," Mr
Perez pointed out.

"We hope that Bush's government takes necessary measures to rectify the conduct
of its diplomats in Cuba," he said, adding:

"We expect a thorough investigation from the US authorities and the results
should be made public."

Mr Perez described it as "cynical" of the US government to limit family
remittances from the US, while at the same time playing the role of intermediary
for "terrorists" who send money to Cuba to support subversive actions by
mercenaries.

He went on to ask: "What would happen if Martha Beatriz Roque lived in the US
and was accused of receiving money from terrorists through Cuban diplomats to
act against the US?"

The State Department has denied wrongdoing, saying that it has long provided
humanitarian aid to opposition leaders in Cuba and it does not discourage
private US organisations from doing so.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             May 24, 2008, Saturday
                                 First Edition

'Suicide bomb plan' was intended to cause maximum destruction;
Terrified shoppers feared second terror attack as police arrest two

BYLINE: Jack Doyle

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 656 words


THE failed suicide bomb set off in a crowded cafe would have released a giant
fireball had it ignited, police sources said yesterday.

The device, made from sodium hydroxide and paraffin, was packed with nails and
designed to detonate when shaken.

Those who built the bomb, and two others found nearby, may have thought the
blast would have been powerful enough to blow out the front of the building,
according to those close to the investigation.

The revelations came as armed police seized two men in connection with the
attempted attack in a shopping mall in Exeter.

Terrified shoppers feared they were caught up in a second terrorist attack as
they saw armed police point their weapons "point blank" at two "dark-skinned"
men in a cafe in Plymouth, home of bomb suspect Nicky Reilly.

Reilly emerged from the Giraffe cafe on Thursday "covered in blood" but not
seriously hurt when the bomb failed to go off.

The 22-year-old received a text message of encouragement before WRECKED: Firemen
examine the bus that crashed into a pillar under a highway overpass in France's
Loire Valley yesterday he left on the failed mission, sources revealed. Reilly
carried the volatile explosive on the X38 bus from Plymouth with more than 50
passengers on board, arriving just after midday.

Investigators suspect the place where Reilly tried to set off the bomb, a
backroom toilet, was chosen to maximise the impact of the device and two others
found nearby.

Police believe extremists took advantage of Reilly's low IQ and history of
mental illness to radicalise him.

The Muslim convert, who recently changed his name to Mohammed Rasheed, had a
screen saver of the Twin Towers in flames from the 9/11 attacks on his home
computer, neighbours said.

Sources said counter-terrorist police were aware of Reilly and suspected he had
forged loose links to known Islamic extremists in south-west England.

The men may have met in an internet cafe close to the council flat he shared
with his mother.

Channel 4 News reported MI5 was also aware of Reilly but he was not the subject
of a live investigation.

Devon and Cornwall Police deputy chief constable Tony Melville said: "We believe
that, despite his weak and vulnerable state, he was preyed upon, radicalised and
taken advantage of."

At 3.30pmyesterday, at least 10 armed officers raided the Bagatelle Cafe in
Plymouth.

Eyewitness Paul Marples, who works in the HSBC bank nearby, said shoppers ran
into the branch fearing an explosion.

"Everyone thought it was a nail bomb like yesterday in Exeter," he said.

Rebecca Pope, 25, heard shouting and saw armed police pointing their gun at the
men, who were sitting at a table outside the cafe with a child in a pushchair.

She said both were searched, put into paper suits and placed in unmarked cars,
while the pushchair was taken away by a policewoman.

"Everyone was screaming," she said.

Police yesterday continued to search the cafe and the first-floor flat on King
Street which he shared with his mother, Kim and brother Elliott, nine. They left
the flat last night and have not returned.

Reilly's 20-year-oldbrother, Luke, is serving a six-year jail term in Portland
Prison for violence.

He saw the incident on TV.

Neighbour Ali Turner, 17, said Reilly was a reclusive loner who spent most of
his time online.

"He did not talk tomany people.

He was a bit of are cluse, he did not have many friends locally," he said. "If
you get brainwashed you get brainwashed. I do think that is what happened to
him."

Neighbour Scott Allen, 19, said Reilly was picked on because he was vulnerable.

"He had always been a follower and had always wanted friends."

Muslim leaders distanced themselves from the attack. Syed Rahman, chairman of
the local Islamic Centre, said : "Certainly no one who attends our mosque has
anything to do with extremism."

Devonand Cornwall Police said one man was arrested in the Plymouth raid. A
second was being questioned but, yesterday evening, had not been arrested.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EXPLOSION: Apolice officer guards the scene of an explosion at the
Giraffe cafe in Princesshay, Exeler

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              This Is Local London

                              May 25, 2008 Sunday

Man threatened Bluewater terror attack

BYLINE: Court reporter

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 346 words


A 33-year-old man has pleaded guilty to threatening to blow up Bluewater
shopping centre - despite not knowing its location.

Saeed Ghafoor, from Southampton, claimed he was plotting to pack three
limousines with gas canisters and detonate them at Britain's largest shopping
centre.

Former English teacher Ghafoor admitted a charge of threatening to destroy or
damage property when he appeared at the Old Bailey today (May 23).

The court heard Ghafoor was serving a 12-month prison sentence for trying to
strangle his sister when he made the threat to prison officers at HMP Haverigg
in Cumbria in February.

Ghafoor asked to speak to the prison liaison officer saying he had "information
about a terrorist threat".

When prison manager Dawn Pugh visited him in his cell, Ghafoor showed her a plan
written in Arabic and English. This detailed how he was planning to carry out
the terror attack.

Prosecutor Piers Arnold said: "He appeared calm, precise and focused.

"He repeated the threat he was going to blow up the Bluewater shopping centre a
number of times.

"Ms Pugh formed the impression he was an odd character, a loner with mental
health issues."

The court also heard that when questioned further, Ghafoor said Bluewater was in
Exeter.

Mr Arnold added: "He was asked why he selected Bluewater, to which he replied it
was the largest shopping centre in England.

"Ghafoor said it was in protest against American and British soldiers who should
all be blown up'.

"Mr Arnold also said the prison officer formed the opinion Ghafoor was capable
of carrying out the threat or was connected with others who were carrying out
the threat."

Ghafoor said he was motivated by something he saw on TV about the shopping
centre.

Mr Arnold added: "This was not a bomb hoax but the Crown says he made the threat
fully intending the recipient to take it seriously.

"'We are not in a position to know if he genuinely intended to carry out the
threat.

"There is no evidence to suggest he had the means or capability to do so."

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith adjourned sentencing until June 30 for background
reports.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                  May 25, 2008

World: How America hailed cricket novel as a 9/11 masterpiece: An Irish-born
author of Turkish descent has used that most English of games as a metaphor for
the al-Qaeda terror attack, writes Peter Beaumont

BYLINE: Peter Beaumont

SECTION: OBSERVER FOREIGN PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1152 words


IT IS A SUBJECT that has engaged some of the biggest names in international
letters: Don DeLillo in Falling Man , Ian McEwan in Saturday and Jonathan Safran
Foer in Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close

Each attempted to explain in imaginary terms that great reordering of Western
life that happened on 9/11, when New York's Twin Towers were destroyed by
al-Qaeda terrorists.

But it is the unlikely figure of a 44-year-old Irish-born sports enthusiast of
Turkish descent, raised in the Netherlands and educated in the UK, who is now
being hailed by some of America's most influential literary critics for having
produced a masterpiece on the subject.

Perhaps even more surprisingly, the metaphor that Joseph O'Neill has chosen for
his novel, set in post-9/11 New York, is that most un-American of pastimes -
cricket.

O'Neill's Netherland , published this month - the name a pun on the main
character's Dutch nationality - has been described as the 'wittiest, angriest,
most exacting and most desolate work of fiction we've yet had about life in New
York and London after the World Trade Centre fell'.

Those paeans of praise were delivered by Dwight Garner in the New York Times
Book Review , which featured the book on the cover under the heading 'The
Ashes'.

But it is the review in New Yorker magazine by James Wood - described as the
'best literary critic of his generation' - that has excited most curiosity about
O'Neill, who had written two well-received novels and a work of history, but had
remained far outside the ranks of the DeLillos and McEwans in terms of
recognition and earning potential.

In the current issue of the New Yorker , Wood ranks O'Neill's efforts alongside
a dizzying array of the greatest novelists: Gogol and Salman Rushdie, Saul
Bellow, VS Naipaul and F Scott Fitzgerald.

It is an unexpected triumph for a novelist and keen sportsman who took the names
of many of his friends - including this newspaper's sports journal ists Oliver
Owen and Will Buckley - to supply sly names for characters in his first novel.

An accomplished club cricketer who played for Den Haag in Holland and currently
turns out for a New York side, it is, however, O'Neill's reflections on the
texture and intimacies of the world post-9/11 - a peculiarly American cultural
moment despite its global resonance - that has attracted the admiration of the
critics.

O'Neill himself said yesterday that he was 'flabbergasted, amazed and shocked'
by the response to the book so far. 'When I told publishers that I was writing a
novel about cricket in New York people just shook their heads and walked away.
There was not so much a bidding war for it as a bidding peace. Only one
publisher was interested.'

The result of seven years of effort, the inspiration was driven by a series of
chance events - an encounter with a Pakistani seeking to build a cricket stadium
in New York, 9/11 itself and O'Neill's own involvement in playing cricket in New
York. The two ideas merged following 9/11.

'I was always aware of the metaphorical resonance,' he said. 'After the attack
on the Twin Towers I could not ignore what was happening in New York.'

The relationship between Netherland's two central characters - man and wife -
taps into the emotional rupture identified by Psychology Today magazine in the
aftermath of the attacks as a generalised anxiety that afflicted an entire
nation. 'There was a feeling of disorientation,' says O'Neill, ' that turned
into a sense that that feeling of threat was being exacerbated and manipulated
by the Bush administration.'

For Garner it was O'Neill's description of New York after the towers fell that
rang powerfully true. 'O'Neill writes beautifully,' he commented in his review,
'about what it sometimes felt like in the months after 9/11, when you couldn't
attend a dinner party unless you were intellectually armed for hours of bitter
debate: "For those under the age of 45 it seemed that world events had finally
contrived a meaningful test of their capacity for conscientious political
thought. Many of my acquaintances, I realised, had passed the last decade or two
in a state of intellectual and psychic yearning for such a moment - or, if they
hadn't, were able to quickly assemble an expert arguer's arsenal of thrusts and
statistics and ripostes and gambits and examples and salient facts and
rhetorical manoeuvres. I, however, was almost completely caught out." '

Commenting on his enthusiasm for Netherland yesterday Wood maintained his
enthusiasm, suggesting that the book deserved to be on the Booker Prize
shortlist at the very least. 'At his best he has the interest in the world,' he
said yesterday, 'and in the hubbub of American life of a writer like Saul
Bellow, combined with the elegant, restrained but lyrical prose (and humour) of
someone like Alan Hollinghurst.

'More than that, I like the way that what seems a very English eye (for all that
O'Neill is Irish and his narrator Dutch) is gazing on contemporary Manhattan,
and seeking out these seemingly marginal lives - the dark-skinned colonials who
live in the outer boroughs (Indians, Pakistanis, Trinidadians, Sri Lankans), and
doing this with a mixture of fascination and slight bemusement.'

But it is O'Neill's use of cricket to tackle post-9/11 Manhattan that has struck
Wood most forcefully as a metaphor for a series of important ideas.

'Above all,' he adds, 'the way he uses cricket to bind his novel together, and
to generate meaning in a post-colonial age, is wonderful. What his novel proves,
of course, is that "post-colonial", that academic term, is a terrible misnomer:
there is nothing "post" about these lives; these immigrants are both colonials
and colonists, and he uses the Dutchness - and whiteness - of his narrator to
comment on this.

'And all this is, on the one hand, done with a very light touch and on the other
hand is deeply ambitious: the book clearly has The Great Gatsby in its sights.
O'Neill should pack his dinner jacket for October. . . and the Booker.'

And if O'Neill's book proves to be the critical and artistic success that Wood
is predicting, it will have answered the question posed by the online journal
Salon , which has been troubling critics since the first batch of 9/11 novels
appeared in 2005.

Then Salon asked: 'What took so long? Has it really been long enough? Can
fiction redress the wounds of that day? Are we ready to even try? Is it even
possible to write a novel about 9/11 that is actually good?'

According to Wood, the answer is finally an emphatic yes in what he describes as
one of the 'most resounding post-colonial books I have ever read'. It is
fuelled, Wood argues, by the idea of cricket itself: a game whose
'un-Americanness' becomes for one of the characters 'an American dream, or
perhaps a dream of America. . . played in New York since the 1770s'.

Or as O'Neill himself has said: 'If George W Bush was interested in cricket,
everything might be different.'


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 28, 2008 Wednesday

Beijing police rule out "terror attack" over subway operation suspension

LENGTH: 176 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

[Xinhua: "3rd Ld: Beijing Subway Suspends Operation for "Signal Failure""]

BEIJING, May 28 (Xinhua) - A Beijing subway line, the No 2 Line, suspended
operation twice unexpectedly in rush hour Wednesday afternoon because of a
signal failure.

Beijing police ruled out rumoured "terror attack" as the reason.

The loop line, which surrounds the downtown areas of Beijing, stopped service at
about 5:45 p.m. and re-opened half an hour later. It suspended operation again
five minutes later and re-opened at about 6:28 p.m.

Some passengers suspected that terrorist attack might behind the brief
suspension, which the subway company and local police denied.

"It can't be terror attack, or else, we wouldn't have resumed the train service
so soon," a man at the duty office of the subway company told Xinhua on the
phone.

He said that signal failure near the Xizhimen stop was to blame for the
unexpected suspension.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1121 gmt 28 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily Record (PM) - UK

                             May 28, 2008 Wednesday
                                  East Edition

School terror as kids watch attack;
 Man batters girl School terror as kids watch attack

BYLINE: Marie Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 277 words


TERRIFIED schoolchildren watched in horror as a thug brutally beat a young girl
in front of them outside a playground.

Pupils from the primary school in Leith ran to alert teachers after the violent
at tack on the youngster - thought to be aged just 10.

The attacker was seen pushing the girl to the ground, punching and repeatedly
kicking her as she lay helpless.

He then dragged the frightened youngster to her feet and walked off with her.

Police today made an urgent appeal for help to tracking down the brute and the
girl after the shocking incident.

A Lothian and Borders force spokeswoman urged anyone with information to come
forward.

She said: "A number of pupils were concerned and upset by what happened.

"We are appealing for anyone else who may have been in the area at the time and
saw this incident to come forward.

"We are also keen to talk to anyone who might recognise the description of the
people involved."

Children from St Mary's Primary, on Leith Links, saw the horrific beating as
they were out playing during their morning break at a round 10.40am yesterday.

They said the man was walking with the girl when he suddenly struck her.

The victim was just 5ft 4ins, slim with brown curly hair. She was dressed in
black and wore glasses.

Her attacker was in his 40s and 6ft 2ins with black and grey hair.

He was wearing a black jacket with red writing on the pocket, and was carrying
an orange Sainsbury's bag.

It's thought two other children may also have been with the man. The group were
seen getting on a bus in Links Gardens.

Anyone with information is urged to call police on 0131 311 3131 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             May 28, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

TEEN STABBED AND LEFT TO DIE;
 Murder bid probe launched after terror attack TEEN STABBED AND LEFT TO DIE

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 419 words


A TEENAGER was seriously ill in hospital last night after being repeatedly
stabbed and slashed and then left to die on waste ground.

The 16-year-old victim suffered horrific wounds to his head, back and buttocks
during the frenzied attack.

His skull was also fractured and he has other internal injuries.

Last night, detectives revealed they are treating the brutal assault as
attempted murder.

Sources have said the young victim may have got caught up in a gang fight.

The badly injured teenager was found lying in a pool of blood by police, who had
been alerted through an anonymous phone call.

When paramedics arrived at the scene, which lies off a country road, they had to
carry out emergency treatment as they feared the victim might bleed to death.

One source said: "The youth's injuries were terrible.

He had blood all over his face and other parts of his body. His clothes were
covered in blood.

"I was told he had at least six stab wounds and umpteen slash wounds too. It's
incredible that he survived.

"It seems he was attacked by a gang. The place where he was assaulted has been a
meeting place for gangs from neighbouring communities over the years."

The vicious knifing happened on waste ground near a caravan park off Salterland
Road in Barrhead.

The victim was found lying on the ground and bleeding heavily shortly after
5.30pm on Monday.

At that stage, he was conscious and talking but, a short time later, his
condition deteriorated.

However, he has now improved and, yesterday, he was receiving treatment at
Paisley's Royal Alexandra Hospital, where his condition was described as serious
but stable.

"Police were alerted following an anonymous phone call," added one source.
"Officers from Barrhead were first at the scene but I don't know how long the
victim had been lying there for.

"The quick response and the urgent treatment carried out by medics may well have
saved his life.

"The wounds to his head looked to be the most serious but, initially, no-one
knew the full extent of his internal injuries. It's thought the teenager comes
from Barrhead."

Last night, police urged anyone who has information about the attempted murder
to come forward.

Detective Sergeant Craig Warren, of Barrhead Police Office, said: "Inquiries are
ongoing to establish the exact circumstances surrounding the incident.

"I urge any witnesses or anyone with information that may assist us to ring my
office on 0141 532 5600 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111, where anonymity can be
maintained."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  VIP VISIT: Alex Salmond is greeted by managing director Alex Cargill.
Also pictured, from left, are editor-in-chief Joe Kelly, commercial director
Bill Steven, HR manager Roy Grant, and finance director David Frain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 29, 2008 Thursday

Turkey concerned about "mounting terrorist attacks" in Iraq

LENGTH: 89 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 29 May: Turkish Foreign Ministry expressed on Thursday [29 May] concern
over mounting terrorist attacks in Iraq, such as today's suicide bombing that
killed at least 18 in Mosul.

"We are deeply concerned about mounting attacks that target Iraq's unity and
stability, as well as recent relative restoration in Iraq's security," the
ministry said in a statement.

It also offered condolences to Iraqi people.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1659 gmt 29 May 08

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Herald

                              June 1, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Goldsmith attack on terror plans adds to Brown's woes;
Former attorney general's comments bolster rebel MPs ahead of vote

BYLINE: James Cusick Westminster Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 439 words


GORDON Brown's controversial plans to hold terrorism suspects for 42 days
without charge were attacked last night by the former attorney general, Lord
Goldsmith, who claimed that if the vote is won by the government in the Commons
in a fortnight, the new law will threaten Britain's "fundamental freedoms".

Goldsmith's timing could not be worse for the government. Last week a series of
potential compromises were offered to rebel Labour MPs by the Home Office. Up to
50 MPs have threatened to vote against the 42 day proposal.

The peer, the government's top lawyer until Brown became prime minister last
summer, has made similar criticism before.

His renewed attack, in an article for a Sunday newspaper, will reinforce the
rebels' credentials and remind the government whips that the vote this month is
likely to be a knife-edge decision.

While Lord Goldsmith has criticised the proposals before, his latest comments
are more severe and are specifically timed to influence a crucial Commons vote.

The 50 Labour MPs ready to rebel would wipe out the government's majority, a
defeat Brown and his already eroded parliamentary authority would find difficult
to survive.

Although Goldsmith's attack focuses on the legal principles behind 42 days, his
comments will highlight the hard reality that this is an under-pressure showdown
vote that Brown can illafford to lose.

Both the prime minister and his home secretary, Jacqui Smith, insist police need
more than the current 28day limit to deal with increasingly sophisticated terror
plots.

While Smith, working alongside the Home Office minister Tony McNulty, has spent
weeks trying to buy off rebels with a series of compromises aimed at increasing
parliamentary and judicial supervision of the increased detention period, it is
believed that Brown, at least in public, is unwilling to shift on the issue of
42 days. In private, however, the prime minister and close ministerial aides are
said to be prepared now for a last-minute compromise.

Goldsmith insisted the proposed new law would undermine the very values the
government was trying to protect. "Some supporters of 42 days say we have to
take this step to protect our values and our way of life, which terrorists
threaten to destroy, " he said.

"But we start, ourselves, to destroy these values and the very basis of the free
society which our ancestors fought hard to create if we readily give away
critical liberties, such as the right we all have not to be arbitrarily held
without charge."

He continued by saying that extending the period suspects can be held without
charge is a "very serious incursion on our fundamental freedoms".

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Goldsmith: warnings over liberties Photograph: Getty

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 2, 2008 Monday

Algeria to stop over 3m SIM cards to prevent their use in terror attacks

LENGTH: 153 words


Excerpt from report by Qatari government-funded, pan-Arab news channel
Al-Jazeera satellite TV on 1 June

An Algeria security official has announced that work is being carried out in
order to scrap more than three million unregistered telephone SIM cards so as to
help prevent the explosion of bombs detonated remotely by using handsets
equipped with these cards.

The same source added that the bombs used in some of the attacks which took
place in Algeria lately were detonated remotely by using signals from handsets
equipped with unregistered SIM cards. Mobile phone companies in Algeria used to
be allowed to sell these unregistered SIM cards without them asking the identity
cards of subscribers. This year, however, the government put forward new
resolutions stipulating that all personal details must be registered during the
sale transaction.

[Passage omitted].

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 2130 gmt 1 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Burnley Express

                                  June 2, 2008

Man in terror attack flees to Chinese restaurant

LENGTH: 464 words


A YOB who caused trouble at a house and then threatened witnesses has been
spared jail - after a judge said he was giving him a "last chance to grow up."

Burnley Crown Court heard how apprentice builder Matthew Dale had broken a
window at the property, barged in the door and took part in violence with
others. He threw a plant pot and a man there was so terrified he escaped to a
nearby Chinese restaurant but Dale followed him and lobbed a brick into the
premises.

While on bail, Dale came across two women witnesses when he was with others. He
encouraged the gang by shouting and threatened one of the victims, saying she
would die, in a bid to stop her giving evidence.

Dale (20), of Manor Street, Nelson, had earlier admitted affray and damage and
had been convicted by a jury of witness intimidation.

Sentencing, Judge Andrew Woolman told him: "In some ways, you thought you were
invincible and could do what you liked. You were no doubt drunk and behaved, as
your counsel has quite rightly said, in a yobbish way."

The judge said the defendant did not have bad record. He obviously had a drink
problem, but on the plus side had a job and was perhaps beginning to see the
error of his ways.

He told him: "You couldn't complain if I locked you up immediately. I had
intended to do that but have reflected on the matter and am prepared to give you
one last chance to reform."

Dale was given nine months in prison, suspended for a year, with 12 months
supervision, the addressing substance related offending programme and a
two-month curfew between 9 p.m. and 6 a.m.

The court was told the defendant was bailed after the incident at the house in
February last year. On June 29th, he approached a witness on the street, told
her she was going to die and said his sister would attack her.

When the defendant was interviewed by police, he claimed he had been visiting a
friend in the area and come across the two women by chance.

Mr Mark Lamberty (prosecuting) said after the incident the victim was upset and
felt unable to go out into the street.

Mr Tim Storrie (defending) described the offences as "spectacularly yobbish
events." Dale had the insight to acknowledge the offences had their roots in
alcohol consumption.

The barrister said the court would have a picture of a surly young man, who
behaved like a child when he did not get his own way. That was provoked by his
drinking and mixing with the wrong people.

The barrister went on: "He is young and for somebody his age it's very often the
case that 12 months can make a very significant change in their personality and
outlook."

He added Dale had a job, was attending college and his father, who he worked
for, had considered setting up a business in Cornwall to try to separate his son
from the influences he faced in East Lancashire.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        June 2, 2008 Monday 4:57 PM BST

TERRORIST ADMITS ATTACKING PRISONER

BYLINE: Kelly Macnamara, PA

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 380 words


A convicted terrorist admitted attacking another prisoner with boiling oil at a
high security prison, a court heard today.

Omar Khyam scalded armed robber Malcolm Cruddas during an attack at Frankland
Prison, Durham, on October 17 last year, Teesside Crown Court heard.

Khyam, 26, pleaded guilty to grievous bodily harm with intent.

Christopher Knox QC, prosecuting, told the court Khyam was already serving a
life sentence with a minimum tariff of 20 years for conspiracy to cause
explosions.

``The Crown takes the view that realistically the public interest is not well
served by going through the issue of what was in the defendant's mind at the
time he attacked a fellow prisoner by pouring boiling oil and water over his
head,'' he told the court.

``He has accepted that his intention was to cause really serious harm to Mr
Cruddas.

``It is self-evident that he did and his motive as far as the Crown is concerned
is not crucial.''

Khyam spoke only to confirm his name and enter his plea.

Wearing a pale blue sweatshirt and with a thick beard, he appeared calm
throughout the proceedings.

He will be sentenced at Teesside Crown Court tomorrow.

Khyam, originally from Crawley, West Sussex, was one of five men jailed for life
in April last year for plotting a series of fertiliser bomb attacks in the south
of England.

At his Old Bailey trial, the court heard the group planned to target London's
Ministry Of Sound nightclub and the Bluewater shopping centre in Kent.

Khyam, who was said to be the terrorist cell's ringleader, has been transferred
to Full Sutton Prison, York, since the attack at Frankland Prison.

Cruddas, 32, from Gateshead suffered burns to his head and upper body and
required hospital treatment.

He was jailed for 12 years in 2001 for conspiring to commit robbery and
possession of a firearm.

Last July al Qaida plotter Eesa Barot (formerly known as Dhiren Barot) spent
five days in hospital after he was scalded in a similar attack at Frankland
Prison.

Proceedings against inmate Gary Moody were later dropped at the request of
Barot.

Also last July, the jail cell of one of the plotters for the failed July 21
attacks, Hussain Osman, was set alight.

At the time Prison Officers Association chairman Colin Moses said more needed to
be done to prevent attacks on offenders.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday

Terror bomb attack kills six

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 354 words


A massive car bomb planted in revenge for Denmark's continued defiance in the
Islamic cartoon row killed at least six people at its Pakistan embassy
yesterday.

It was the worst attack since Danish newspapers printed the caricatures of the
prophet Mohammed two years ago.

Prime minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen called the bombing an attack against
Denmark, but he said they would not be cowed by terrorists.

"Denmark will not alter its policy because of a terror attack. We will not give
in to terrorists. We will maintain the foreign and security policy line we have
been leading."

Earlier this year Danish intelligence officials warned of an aggravated terror
threat against Denmark after local newspapers reprinted a cartoon of Mohammed
wearing a bomb-shaped turban. Islamic law generally opposes any depiction of the
prophet for fear it could lead to idolatry.

The cartoon was one of 12 featuring the prophet - first published in Denmark -
that sparked riots in the Muslim world in 2006. Mobs attacked Danish embassies
in Lebanon, Syria and Iran to protest against publication of the cartoons in
European newspapers.

This year, Muslims staged peaceful protests in Pakistan over the cartoons. In
April, Denmark briefly evacuated staff from its embassies in Algeria and
Afghanistan because of terror threats related to the drawings.

Foreign minister Per Stig Moeller said the bomb killed an embassy cleaner and
injured three other embassy workers, none of them Danes. He said the government
did not know who was behind the blast.

Many in Denmark expressed concern that the attack was a response to the
publication of the cartoons - or the deployment of Danish troops in Afghanistan.

"What has brought Denmark so much to the attention of people's attention in that
part of the world are the Mohammed cartoons," Lars Erslev Andersen, a terrorism
expert at the University of Odense, said.

"But that led to people's attention being drawn to the fact that Denmark has had
soldiers in Iraq and that Denmark is on the front in Afghanistan."

Denmark withdrew its troops from Iraq last year but has more than 600 soldiers
serving in Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday

Terrorist Admits Jail Oil Attack

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 183 words


CONVICTED terrorist Omar Khyam yesterday admitted at Teesside Crown Court
attacking another prisoner with boiling oil at high-security Frankland Prison in
Durham.

Khyam scalded armed robber Malcolm Cruddas during an attack at Frankland Prison,
Durham, on October 17 last year.

Khyam, 26, who has since been transferred to Full Sutton Prison, York, pleaded
guilty to grievous bodily harm with intent. Originally from Crawley, West
Sussex, Khyam was one of five men jailed for life in April last year for
plotting a series of  bomb attacks in the south of England.

Cruddas, 32, from Gateshead, who was jailed for 12 years in 2001 for conspiring
to commit robbery and possession of a firearm, suffered burns to his head and
upper body.

Last July al Qaida plotter Eesa Barot  spent five days in hospital after he was
scalded in a similar attack at Frankland Prison and also last July, the jail
cell of Hussain Osman, one of the plotters for the failed July 21 attacks,  was
set alight.

At the time Prison Officers' Association chairman Colin Moses said more needed
to be done to prevent attacks on offenders.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday

United Nations: Security Council condemns in strongest terms Islamabad terrorist
attack, stresses need to bring perpetrators of reprehensible act to justice

LENGTH: 532 words


RDATE:03062008

The Security Council this afternoon condemned in the strongest terms today's
terrorist attack outside the Danish embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan, that had
caused numerous deaths, injuries and damage to buildings, including to a
building housing the United Nations Development Programme.

In a statement read by this month's Council President, Zalmay Khalilzad of the
United States, the Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of that "reprehensible act" of terrorism,
and urged all States to cooperate with the Pakistani authorities in that regard.

The Council reaffirmed that terrorism constituted one of the most serious
threats to international peace and security and that any acts of terrorism were
criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever
and by whomsoever committed. It reminded States that any measures they took to
combat terrorism must comply with all their obligations under international law,
in particular international human rights, refugee and humanitarian law.

The meeting started at 3:40 p.m. and adjourned at 3:45 p.m.

Presidential Statement

Presidential statement S/PRST/2008/19 reads as follows:

"The Security Council condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist attack that
occurred outside the Danish Embassy in Islamabad on 2 June 2008, causing
numerous deaths, injuries and damage to nearby buildings, including a building
housing the United Nations Development Programme. It expresses its deep sympathy
and condolences to the victims of this heinous act of terrorism and to their
families, and to the people and Governments of Pakistan and Denmark.

"The Security Council underlines the need to bring perpetrators, organizers,
financiers and sponsors of this reprehensible act of terrorism to justice, and
urges all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and resolution 1373 (2001) and consistent with resolution 1624 (2005), to
cooperate actively with the Pakistani authorities in this regard.

"The Security Council reaffirms that terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by
whomsoever committed.

"The Security Council further reaffirms the need to combat by all means, in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, threats to international
peace and security caused by terrorist acts. The Council reminds States that
they must ensure that any measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all
their obligations under international law, in particular international human
rights, refugee and humanitarian law.

"The Security Council reiterates its determination to combat all forms of
terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of the
United Nations."

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday
                                 2 Star Edition

TERRORIST'S JAIL ATTACK;
COURT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 80 words


A CONVICTED terrorist attacked a white prisoner with boiling oil amid increasing
racial tensions at a top security jail.

Omar Khyam, part of a cell that planned to bomb the Bluewater shopping centre in
Kent, attacked armed robber Malcolm Cruddas, 32, last October.

Khyam, already serving a life sentence, admitted the attack the second of its
kind in Durham Frankland after one last July. The prosecutor at Teesside court
said: "He intended serious harm."

He will be sentenced today.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday

Terrorist sentenced for boiling oil attack

BYLINE: Neil Hunter

SECTION: REGIONAL

LENGTH: 309 words


BOMB plotter Omar Khyam today denied scalding a fellow inmate to get a transfer
from a high-security North-East jail.

The convicted terrorist scalded armed robber Malcolm Cruddas with a boiling oil
and water at Frankland Prison, Durham.

Khyam, who is serving a life sentence with a minimum 20 years, yesterday
admitted causing grievous bodily harm with intent.

The 26-year-old returned to Teesside Crown Court today to be sentenced by Judge
Tony Briggs for the October 17 attack.

Judge Briggs passed an indeterminate sentence for the protection of the public
with a minimum four-year tariff.

The court heard that the attack on Mr Cruddas, 32, from Gateshead, came after
two others at Frankland involving convicted terrorists.

In July last year, inmate Dhiren Barot spent five days in hospital after being
burned in a similar boiling liquid scalding.

His attacker, from Sunderland, had the case dropped when Barot - jailed for life
for a "dirty" bomb plot- refused to co-operate with police.

Also last July, the cell of Hussain Osman, one of the July 21 bomb conspirators,
was set alight.

Khyam's barrister, Sam Robinson, told the court that there was an atmosphere of
"fear and mistrust" among Muslim inmates.

He said Khyam heard of a plot behind bars to cause him harm, and struck first,
but accepted it was "excessive self-defence".

The court heard that Khyam had applied for and been refused a transfer from the
prison, which holds some of the country's most notorious criminals.

Khyam has since been moved to Full Sutton Prison in York and Barot has been
taken back to Bellmarsh Jail in London.

Mr Robinson denied that Khyam carried out the attack on Cruddas to get a
transfer after a judicial review into the refusal failed.

He said Muslim prisoners did feel abandoned, and he is now content at Full
Sutton even though he is still miles away from his family in Sussex.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                        June 3, 2008 Tuesday 3:36 PM BST

TERROR ATTACK PROTECTION FOR BUILDINGS DEBATED

BYLINE: Hilary Duncanson and Louise Hosie, Scottish Press Association

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 349 words


Senior police officers and planning chiefs gathered today to work out how to
protect Scotland's buildings against terrorist attacks.

Around 50 architects, developers and designers joined the Association of Chief
Police Officers in Scotland (Acpos) at the Scottish Police College in
Tulliallan.

The event was the first of its kind north of the border and is hoped to be the
start of a series of gatherings aimed at ``designing out crime''.

The initiative was to encourage some of the top people in their field to
consider counter-terrorism measures at the initial stages of building design.

With the help of DVDs and video clips, delegates were asked to consider what
they could do to reduce the risk of a terror attack happening, while still
keeping new developments accessible for members of the public.

Chief Inspector Brian Connel of Acpos said those around the table found it to be
challenging work.

He said: ``I think it's taken people out of their comfort zone and that's a good
thing. What we've learned from the day, we'll take forward.

``All the people that need to work together in the real world were in this
training environment.''

Mr Connel, a crime prevention officer with Strathclyde Police, said such an
event was vital at a time of ``huge'' amounts of regeneration across the
country.

It comes in the wake of last year's attack on Glasgow Airport and the 2005
London Tube bombings.

``Unfortunately it's something we're going to have to deal with for a number of
years, if not generations.'' Mr Connel said.

He said he hoped that the police officers present at today's meeting would go on
to be part of future programmes along similar lines on a more local scale.

The gathering was run in conjunction with the Scottish Business Crime Centre
(SBCC).

Executive director Alan Dobie said: ``Today's event illustrates the important
role architects, developers and planners can play in minimising the effects of
terrorism within Scotland's built environment.

``Like many other aspects of crime, partnership between law enforcement and
business is the key to successfully tackling these challenges.''

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       June 3, 2008 Tuesday 12:46 PM BST

PRISONER ATTACK TERRORIST 'WANTED TO BE AT DIFFERENT JAIL'

BYLINE: Kelly Macnamara, PA

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 826 words


A convicted terrorist denied pouring boiling oil over another prisoner to ensure
a transfer, but blamed an ``atmosphere of fear'' at his high security prison for
the attack, a court heard today.

Omar Khyam was sentenced to four years imprisonment at Teesside Crown Court
today for ``calmly'' scalding armed robber Malcolm Cruddas on October 17 last
year at Frankland Prison, Durham.

The 26-year-old, who yesterday pleaded guilty to grievous bodily harm with
intent, is currently serving a life sentence for his part in plotting a series
of fertiliser bomb attacks in the south of England.

Christopher Knox, prosecuting, told the court today that Khyam had wanted to be
moved from the Durham prison from the moment he arrived.

``He made it clear by himself and his solicitors that he did not want to be at
Frankland Prison, he wanted to be at a different prison,'' he said.

Mr Knox said the attack on Cruddas was unprovoked and caused burns to 15% of his
body and had resulted in permanent scarring.

``The defendant approached him from behind and calmly poured a steaming liquid
over his head which was either oil or a mixture of oil and water,'' he said.

However, Sam Robinson, defending, said Khyam had attacked Cruddas in ``excessive
self defence'', citing other attacks on terrorist inmates at Frankland.

Last July al Qaida plotter Eesa Barot (formerly known as Dhiren Barot) spent
five days in hospital after he was scalded at Frankland Prison.

Proceedings against inmate Gary Moody were later dropped at the request of
Barot.

Also in July 2007, the jail cell of one of the plotters for the failed July 21
attacks, Hussain Osman, was set alight.

Mr Robinson said: ``There was the previous attack on Mr Barot which was of a
similar nature and resulted in similar injuries as those being discussed here
and the arson attack on Mr Osman so those two incidents, regardless of any
actions by the Prison Service, led to an atmosphere of fear and mistrust and a
sense of abandonment which was felt by the Muslim community at Frankland at the
time.''

Khyam, originally from Crawley, West Sussex, was transferred to Full Sutton
Prison, York, after the attack at Frankland Prison.

He was one of five men convicted last year of plotting bomb attacks on London's
Ministry Of Sound nightclub and the Bluewater shopping centre in Kent as well as
electricity supplies.

Mr Robinson said the publicity surrounding Khyam's Old Bailey trial, which ended
in April last year, and his friendship with Barot, made his client feel
threatened at the prison.

He added that Khyam was transferred to Frankland on June 30 last year, the same
day as the failed Glasgow Airport car bomb attack.

``He was transferred to a prison when tensions were high and you will also note
your honour that the first thing he asked for was to be segregated,'' he told
the court.

In sentencing Judge Tony Briggs referred to the description of Khyam by the
judge at his Old Bailey trial, Sir Michael Astill, as ``ruthless, devious,
artful and dangerous''.

He said Cruddas, 32, from Gateshead, had suffered ``quite horrific'' second and
third degree burns in the attack.

In an impact statement Cruddas, who was given a 12-year sentence for conspiring
to commit robbery and possession of a firearm in 2001, told the court that he
and his family were struggling to come to terms with his injuries.

Judge Briggs said he accepted Khyam may have feared for his safety generally,
but rejected any idea that Cruddas posed a threat to him.

``I regret that there are factors, even if you did fear for your own safety,
that indicate precisely how dangerous you are and there are certainly
appearances of someone attempting to stamp their own authority and exercise
their own control over events, and someone who was determined to have their own
way,'' he said.

Khyam, who again appeared at court dressed in a pale blue sweatshirt and with a
thick beard, was given a four year jail term to run concurrently with the life
sentence he is already serving.

Judge Briggs noted that the sentence would not affect the number of years Khyam
would serve, but suggested it could affect his chances of parole at a later
date.

Asked about the three attacks at Frankland, a Prison Service spokeswoman said
that while she could not comment on individual cases, the duty of care to
prisoners was taken ``very seriously''.

``Every effort is made to ensure that the rights of prisoners whatever their
religion, ethnic, or cultural background are respected,'' she said.

``All prisoners are able to register confidentially any concerns informally or
formally to staff on the wing, the Governor, the Independent Monitoring Board,
Prison Service Headquarters, the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman, their MP or
their legal representatives.

``All actions involving Category A prisoners are subject to continual risk
assessments to ensure safety and security for all. As part of that risk
assessment, any concerns raised by a prisoner would be taken into account.''

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 4, 2008 Wednesday

Russia: Militants detained, killed in Ingushetia involved in terror attacks

LENGTH: 176 words


Two militants that resisted police who were trying to detain them in the
Nazranskiy District of Ingushetia were involved in carrying out terrorist
attacks, the Ingushetia directorate of the Russian Federal Security Service
(FSB) has said, as reported by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax-Yug
on 4 June.

At 1530 gmt on 3 June, police who were trying to detain the militants came under
fire from automatic weapons. The policemen returned fire, as a result of which
one militant was killed and their car caught fire. The other man was wounded and
detained. An assault rifle, Makarov pistol and a large amount of munitions were
found inside the car.

The detained man, Mikhail Ozdoyev, agreed to cooperate with the investigators.
He told the police that the other militant's name was Rezvan Tsuroyev, born in
1985.

Preliminary reports say both men were involved in a number of terrorist attacks
in Ingushetia, including against employees of law-enforcement agencies,
Interfax-Yug reported.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0455 gmt 4 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             June 4, 2008 Wednesday

The North Atlantic Council: Statement by the North Atlantic Council on the
terror attack in front of the Danish Embassy in Islamabad

LENGTH: 118 words


RDATE:04062008

The North Atlantic Council met today and strongly condemned Monday's bomb attack
in front of the Danish Embassy in Islamabad. The Council also expressed its
condolences to the families of those who lost their lives, and their sympathies
to those who were injured. These attacks demonstrate once again that terrorism
is a global threat, and does not distinguish between its victims. The
Alliancestands united in opposition to this menace.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 5, 2008 Thursday

Bosnian ministry devises strategy for responding to possible terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 657 words


Text of report by Bosnian edition of Croatian daily Vecernji list, on 5 June

[Report by Dejan Jazvic: "Air Traffic and Energy Sector Most Vulnerable"]

The Security Ministry has devised a special plan for civil-military cooperation
among state institutions in case of terrorist attacks on Bosnia-Hercegovina.
This means that the state finally has a well-prepared and well-thought-out
response to possible terrorist attacks. The plan has been approved by the
Council of Ministers and commended by the UN Security Council's
Counter-Terrorism Committee, whose experts even promised financial support for
its implementation. The purpose of the plan is to create an effective and
efficient state response to terrorist threats and consequences of terrorist
attacks against civilian targets aimed at achieving the goals of terrorist
organizations, groups, and individuals.

Five Phases

The security-related data gathered thus far show that air traffic, power plants,
and transport and communications infrastructure are "the most vulnerable"
sectors in B-H. This category also includes facilities that are important to B-H
and the international community security-wise and public places such as schools,
hospitals, and public transportation means. The Security Ministry in cooperation
with the Defence Ministry would play a key role in responding to possible
terrorist attacks in B-H.

The response would consist of five phases ranging from prevention to recovery
and rehabilitation. Each of these phases envisions close civil-military
cooperation and the use of all available resources. The first phase, so-called
preventative, includes, among other things, measures aimed at suppressing
radicalism within society, developing an evacuation plan, as well as video
surveillance and other forms of protection of the vulnerable infrastructure and
public places.

Responsibility

The B-H counter-terrorism task force, the protection and rescue coordination
team, and the Civil Defence headquarters in the entities and the Brcko District
would be in charge of coordinating the response to possible terrorist attacks.
The operational response to terrorist attacks comprises several measures,
including participation of the B-H Armed Forces. These and other activities
envision close cooperation among all levels of authority based on the principle
of subsidiarity, from the state to local levels.

The operational capacities and resources that would be used by each of the state
institutions in the prevention of and response to terrorist attacks were not
mentioned in the plan for the sake of confidentiality. The information of this
kind will be forwarded to the counter-terrorism task force.

[Box] International Assistance

The plan for civil-military cooperation in responding to possible terrorist
attacks does not rule out international assistance. Apart from local military
units, international forces may also be asked to provide support.

Their assistance would be welcome in situations when local forces are estimated
to be incapable of adequately coping with consequences of terrorist attacks. The
United Nations, the EU, NATO, and Interpol are among the international
organizations that would be informed first about incidents - that is, terrorist
attacks.

[Box] Initial Response Forces

The initial response forces are the units that arrive first at the scene of an
incident or attack. These include police forces, SIPA [State Investigation and
Protection Agency], and special units of the entity police forces when it comes
to responding to a terrorist threat, while fire fighters, the Civil Defence,
rescue teams, and the emergency service would be tasked with providing the
initial response to consequences of a terrorist attack. If necessary, support
units - that is, the OS B-H [B-H Armed Forces], can also be engaged. However,
they must first get approval from the B-H Presidency.

Source: Vecernji list (Bosnia-Hercegovina edition), Zagreb, in Croatian 5 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily Record (PM) - UK

                             June 7, 2008 Saturday
                                  West Edition

BEAST ATTACKS 5 WOMEN IN 90min;
 Cops release CCTV photo after perv's trail of terror BEAST ATTACKS 5 WOMEN IN
90min

BYLINE: Donna Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 405 words


A PERVERT attacked five women within 90 minutes in a series of assaults across
the centre of Glasgow and the city's west end.

He pounced at different locations between 6.15pm and 7.45pm on Thursday.

Police hunting the beast - who indecently assaulted his victims in the street -
last night released a CCTV image of a man they want to trace.

The image, taken in the Cambridge Street area, shows a man officers said may be
able to assist them with their inquiries.

The sicko first struck at an underpass at the city's Cowcaddens Underground,
pushing a 26-year-old woman to the ground before carrying out a sex attack.

Just 15 minutes later, he carried out another indecent assault, this time on
Hope Street at Bath Lane.

The victim did not report the attack to police, who were informed by a witness.

The third incident was at 7pm on Bank Street in the Kelvinbridge area. This time
the pervert grabbed a 31-year-old woman from behind, dragged her towards the
junction with Cowan Street and threw her to the ground.

But she escaped and her attacker ran off.

At 7.15pm he struck again, this time on Great Western Road at the junction with
Kersland Street.

He came up behind a 30-year-old woman and carried out another vile assault.

He ran towards Hillhead Steps but returned five minutes later to assault the
same woman again.

The trail ended at 7.45pm in Lancaster Terrace Lane where he crept up on a
20-year-old woman and tried to drag her into an alleyway, where he pushed her to
the ground and attempted to indecently assault her. This victim also got away.

The man in the CCTV footage is described as around 5ft 8in and in his late teens
or early 20s.

He was wearing a black hooded top, possibly with some form of white lettering or
pattern, a beige or mustard T-shirt and dark trousers.

He was carrying a black bag or holdall.

Detective Sergeant Alan Brown, from Glasgow's city centre police office, said:
"As a result of our initial inquiries, I can confirm that we are treating these
as linked incidents and believe that the same man is responsible for each one.

"Although the nature of the attacks is a major cause for concern, luckily none
of the women assaulted by this man required any medical attention - but they are
all badly shaken.

"The woman who was assaulted in Hope Street hasn't yet come forward to report
any details of the attack to police and I would urge her to do so as a matter of
urgency."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  WANTED: CCTV man
 7:45pm Lancaster Terrace
 7:15pm Kersland Street
 7:00pm Bank Street
 6:15pm Cowcaddens
 6:30pm Bath Lane

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 9, 2008 Monday

Iran condemns "terrorist" attack in east Algerian city

LENGTH: 144 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 9 June: Foreign Ministry Spokesman Mohammad-Ali Hosseyni on Monday
condemned the recent terrorist attack in the city of Akhzaria in eastern
Algeria.

According to the Information and Press Department of the Foreign Ministry,
Hosseyni added that perpetrating such criminal acts runs counter to Islamic
principles and values.

The spokesman further said that there are weak points and double standards in
dealing with the satanic phenomenon of terrorism.

Hosseyni also called on world nations to show firm reaction to the phenomenon
and to cut all spiritual or material support for terrorist organizations.

He noted that this will help pave the way for real confrontation with the evil
phenomenon.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1323 gmt 9 Jun
08

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                              June 9, 2008, Monday
                                 First Edition

'Cardiff hosts big events and has crowded places. It's perfect for terrorist
attacks';
S.Wales' top police officer reveals city evacuation plans

BYLINE: David James

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 357 words


CARDIFF'S top police officer has revealed he has prepared the first evacuation
plan for the city in the event of a terrorist strike.

Chief Superintendent Josh Jones said a recent terror bomb attack in Exeter had
prompted senior officers to re-evaluate the potential danger to the capital of
Wales.

Although there is no specific intelligence of a terror threat, Chief Supt Jones
said the city has to be prepared as it "fits the bill".

He said: "We can't get away from the fact that Cardiff is the capital city of
Wales. It hosts big events, it hasiconic locations, it has crowded places, which
is the preferred opportunity for current terrorist attacks.

"That causes me some angst, but what I am trying to do is reassure the community
thatwe are trying to work with them so as to prevent violent extremism."

He said a string of measures had been introduced to prepare the city, including:

Increased numbers of armed officers on the streets at major events to make
Cardiff "a hostile environment for terrorism and provide a visible presence on
the street";

The development of an evacuation plan for the city in the case of a terror
strike;

And training for officers to increase their awareness of the threat.

In the coming months, Chief Supt Jones also said that there would be
announcements about initiatives within communities aimed at preventing
radicalisation and violent extremism.

In the wake of the July 7 bombings, the attack on Glasgow Airport and the recent
bomb explosion at a restaurant in Exeter have persuaded terror experts that
tackling problems within communities is vital to preventing radicalisation.

Oneman, a 22-year-oldMuslim convert, has appeared in court charged with
terrorism offences following the explosion in Exeter.

Nicky Reilly, who appeared at City of Westminster Magistrates' Court in London
under the name Mohamed Abdulaziz Rashid Saeed-Alim, suffered serious eye and
face injuries in the blast at the Giraffe restaurant in the Devon city on May
22.

Reilly, of King Street, Plymouth, is chargedwiththree offencesincluding one of
engaging in conduct in preparation for committing acts of terrorism.

david.james@mediawales.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 10, 2008 Tuesday

Russian security chief gives more details on averted terror attacks - TV

LENGTH: 232 words


Text of "Sobytiya" news report by Russian Centre TV, owned by the Moscow city
government, on 10 June

[Presenter] The Russian security services foiled a series of terror attacks
during the May public holidays [from May Day to 9 May Victory Day and subsequent
weekend], Aleksandr Bortnikov, the new head of the National Antiterrorist
Committee said today [10 June] at a session of the committee.

He said that as a result of joint work between Russia's FSB [Federal Security
Service] and the Interior Ministry to ensure security for the inauguration of
the Russian President [on 7 May] and May public holiday events, terrorists'
plans to commit terror attacks on the capital's metro [underground] had been
foiled.

In addition, the activities of a criminal group that was preparing attacks in
towns of the [North] Caucasus Mineralnyye Vody [spa resort] region had been
thwarted.

[Bortnikov] A large quantity of firearms, ammunitions and ingredients for
explosive substances, and literature that is extremist in nature has been
seized. In this regard, I additionally draw the attention of members of the
committee, leaders of the anti-terrorist commissions and operational
headquarters in constituent parts of the Russian Federation to the need to
reliably ensure security for all the events dedicated to the Russia Day public
holiday [on 12 June].

Source: Centre TV, Moscow, in Russian 1030 gmt 10 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 10, 2008 Tuesday

Russian security service averts metro terror attacks - FSB chief

LENGTH: 116 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 10 June: The head of the FSB [Russia's Federal Security Service],
Aleksandr Bortnikov, has said that terrorists' plans to commit an act of
sabotage on the Moscow metro [underground] and in the North Caucasus were foiled
in May this year.

"During the course of ensuring security for the inauguration of the president of
the Russian Federation [on 7 May] and the May [Day and 9 May Victory Day]
holiday events, terrorists' plans to stage attacks on the Moscow metro were
thwarted," Bortnikov said at a session of the National Antiterrorist Committee
in Moscow today.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0855 gmt 10 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             June 10, 2008 Tuesday

Britain - MCB attacks terror law

LENGTH: 151 words


Muslim leaders warned yesterday that holding terror suspects for 42 days without
charge would worsen relations between police and Muslims.

Muslim Council of Britain (MCB) spokesman Inayat Bunglawala said that members
discussed whether the government's motives for increasing the current 28-day
limit were really about protecting Britain at its AGM in east London on Sunday.

"Many delegates were concerned that this extension, if it does go ahead, will
have a negative impact on relations between Muslims, especially young people,
and the police, which are already not great," he said.

"There is almost a feeling that the government wants to be seen to be tough on
this issue for the sake of party political points rather than anything else,"
added Mr Bunglawala.

"There is a lot of anxiety about whether the government will succeed in getting
this through because it has so far not been listening to opposition."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday

Terror attack at city dog home

BYLINE:  Richard Ault

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 517 words


Rottweiler owners attacked staff at a stray dogs home when they were told they
would have to pay a fine to claim back their missing pets.

Staff at the City Dogs Home in Brookhouse Lane, Bucknall, say they are sick of
the constant abuse and threats they receive from dog owners reclaiming their
animals.

Police are now investigating after a family of four came to collect two
Rottweilers, which were picked up by the council dog warden in Chesterton.

The family objected to paying a £50 fine, issued by Newcastle Borough Council,
which needs to be paid before the dogs can be collected.

Vicky Phillips, who has been manager of the  home for 18 years, said: "They
broke in, knocked us about and stole the dogs back.

"A woman turned up and tried to claim the dogs had been stolen from her garden,
but they had been running about in the streets when they were found.

"She was shouting and swearing at me, then the next thing, a car turned up. They
climbed over the wall at the back of the home and cuffed us out of the way. They
got into my own bungalow, which is next to the home, and where my own little
dogs were. They took the Rottweilers through my home, I was trying to get my
dogs out of the way so they didn't get savaged.

"Then one of the women clawed my face and a man smacked my head against the
wall. A woman grabbed hold of a member of staff and another staff member had to
pull her off.

"It was quite frightening. We get a lot of threats and abuse from people picking
up their dogs, but I've never been attacked before."

Dogs found wandering the streets of Newcastle and Stoke-on-Trent without their
owners are collected by the warden and delivered to the City Dogs Home.

Fines are issued by either Newcastle Borough Council or Stoke-on-Trent City
Council. The dogs' home makes no profit from the fine, but they do receive a fee
of £6 per day to cover kennel charges, which is added on top of the fine.

Any dogs found which are chipped or have proper name tags are delivered home, as
long as there is someone in to receive them.

Ms Phillips said: "The fine is nothing to do with us, but we get the abuse. We
are providing a public service, and you would think people would be happy to get
their dogs back."

Gordon Oldfield, who founded the dogs home 20 years ago, said: "It is worrying
to think your staff could get attacked for doing their job.

"People are always slagging us off. They think we are overcharging them. A lot
of people seem to think it is us who are fining them.

"But we do it for the council and I want dog owners to realise this."

Newcastle Borough Council declined to comment.

Police are now appealing for anyone with any information about the attack on
staff at the City Dogs Home, at about 5.15pm on Wednesday, June 4, to contact
them.

A police spokesman said: "One of the members of staff requested help from police
after an assault. We sent patrols straight away.

"We are investigating at the moment, but we have not made any arrests."

Anyone with any information about the attack is asked to call Cheadle Police on
08453 302010, or call the Crimestoppers confidential hotline on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday

Terror attack at city dog home

BYLINE: Richard Ault

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 517 words


Rottweiler owners attacked staff at a stray dogs home when they were told they
would have to pay a fine to claim back their missing pets.

Staff at the City Dogs Home in Brookhouse Lane, Bucknall, say they are sick of
the constant abuse and threats they receive from dog owners reclaiming their
animals.

Police are now investigating after a family of four came to collect two
Rottweilers, which were picked up by the council dog warden in Chesterton.

The family objected to paying a £50 fine, issued by Newcastle Borough Council,
which needs to be paid before the dogs can be collected.

Vicky Phillips, who has been manager of the  home for 18 years, said: "They
broke in, knocked us about and stole the dogs back.

"A woman turned up and tried to claim the dogs had been stolen from her garden,
but they had been running about in the streets when they were found.

"She was shouting and swearing at me, then the next thing, a car turned up. They
climbed over the wall at the back of the home and cuffed us out of the way. They
got into my own bungalow, which is next to the home, and where my own little
dogs were. They took the Rottweilers through my home, I was trying to get my
dogs out of the way so they didn't get savaged.

"Then one of the women clawed my face and a man smacked my head against the
wall. A woman grabbed hold of a member of staff and another staff member had to
pull her off.

"It was quite frightening. We get a lot of threats and abuse from people picking
up their dogs, but I've never been attacked before."

Dogs found wandering the streets of Newcastle and Stoke-on-Trent without their
owners are collected by the warden and delivered to the City Dogs Home.

Fines are issued by either Newcastle Borough Council or Stoke-on-Trent City
Council. The dogs' home makes no profit from the fine, but they do receive a fee
of £6 per day to cover kennel charges, which is added on top of the fine.

Any dogs found which are chipped or have proper name tags are delivered home, as
long as there is someone in to receive them.

Ms Phillips said: "The fine is nothing to do with us, but we get the abuse. We
are providing a public service, and you would think people would be happy to get
their dogs back."

Gordon Oldfield, who founded the dogs home 20 years ago, said: "It is worrying
to think your staff could get attacked for doing their job.

"People are always slagging us off. They think we are overcharging them. A lot
of people seem to think it is us who are fining them.

"But we do it for the council and I want dog owners to realise this."

Newcastle Borough Council declined to comment.

Police are now appealing for anyone with any information about the attack on
staff at the City Dogs Home, at about 5.15pm on Wednesday, June 4, to contact
them.

A police spokesman said: "One of the members of staff requested help from police
after an assault. We sent patrols straight away.

"We are investigating at the moment, but we have not made any arrests."

Anyone with any information about the attack is asked to call Cheadle Police on
08453 302010, or call the Crimestoppers confidential hotline on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2008 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 13, 2008 Friday

No terrorist attack in Chechnya since start of 2008 - official

LENGTH: 149 words


Text of report by the Prague-based Caucasus Times website, specializing in news
from the Caucasus, on 30 April

Groznyy, 30 April: No terrorist attack has been recorded and there has been no
manifestation of extremism in the Chechen Republic since the beginning of the
year, Chechen Deputy Interior Minister Muslim Isayev said at a meeting at the
ministry on Wednesday [30 April].

He said that 23 militants, including two ringleaders, have been killed, 144
members of illegal armed formations have been detained, and 25 former militants
have turned themselves in to the law-enforcement agencies since the beginning of
the year as a result of operational-search and special events.

Isayev stressed that drug addiction and also involvement of teenagers in the use
and dissemination of drugs remain some of the acute problems in the republic.

Source: Caucasus Times website, Prague, in Russian 30 Apr 08

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 13, 2008 Friday

Separatist leader says Georgia preparing terrorist attack

LENGTH: 192 words


Text of report by pro-separatist South Ossetian Press and Information Committee
website on 14 May

14 May: "The Georgian special services intend to carry out a terrorist attack on
the territory of [Georgia's breakaway] republic of South Ossetia against
citizens of Georgian nationality and Georgian peacekeepers," the president of
the republic of South Ossetia, Eduard Kokoyty, said.

"The aim of the terrorist attack is to foment hysteria against the South
Ossetian leadership, accuse it of failure, provide a pretext for Georgia's
international sponsors and protectors to accuse Russian peacekeepers [stationed
in the conflict zone] of their inability to fulfil their tasks, and start armed
actions against South Ossetia. We are aware of these intentions of the Georgian
special services and their protectors. All responsibility for the further
escalation of tensions in the Caucasus will fully be imposed on the bloody
Saakashvili regime and the Georgian side. In this specific case, the Georgian
people themselves should not stand aside," the president said.

Source: South Ossetian Press and Information Committee website, Tskhinvali, in
Russian 14 May 08

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 14, 2008 Saturday

Pakistan alerts Chinese, French embassies about possible terror attack - paper

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report by Islamabad correspondent headlined "Danger of terrorist attack
on the embassies of China and France" published by Pakistani newspaper Ausaf on
13 June

Islamabad: According to credible sources, a report sent by security institutes
says that unidentified terrorists and extremists may attack the embassies of
China and France in Islamabad.

After having the information, the law enforcement agencies have further
tightened security. Media sources said that following the suicide bomb attack
outside the Danish Embassy, a federal security agency has obtained information
that the unknown extremists are now eyeing the embassies of China and France as
their next targets.

Immediately after this report, the interior ministry alerted the officials of
both embassies. The sources said that security arrangements have been further
beefed up to ensure protection of the embassies.

The government has assured the embassy officials that it has arranged strict
security measures for their protection.

Source: Ausaf, Islamabad in Urdu, 13 Jun 08 pp 5, 8

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 14, 2008 Saturday

Turkish agency confirms rocket attack, says one "terrorist" killed in operations

LENGTH: 135 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

Yuksekova/Bingol, 14 June: A rocket attack was waged by PKK [Kurdistan Workers'
Party] terrorists against a police lodging in Yuksekova town of southeastern
province of Hakkari on Friday [13 June].

A total of five people were wounded during the attack, Governor of Hakkari Ayhan
Nasuhbeyoglu told the A.A [Anatolia Agency].

The wounded were hospitalized, he said.

During an operation waged against the terrorist organization in eastern Bingol
province, one terrorist was killed on Saturday.

The terrorist, who refused to lay down arms, was killed in a rural area near
Yayladere town of Bingol, security forces said.

Operations are underway to catch the 4 other wounded terrorists, they added.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0726 gmt 14 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             June 14, 2008 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

CALL TO HONOUR ALL AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK HEROES;
 PM says trio's acts are highly regarded CALL TO HONOUR ALL AIRPORT TERROR
ATTACK HEROES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 346 words


MORE than 500 people have signed a petition calling for bravery medals to be
given to everyone who helped thwart a terrorist attack on Glasgow Airport.

Erskine man John Smeaton was given the Queen's Gallantry Medal for Bravery in
March for the role he played in the attack last year.

And now there is a campaign for the other three civilians who were identified as
playing a part on the day - Alex McIlveen, Michael Kerr, and Stephen Clarkson -
to be given the same honour.

John, 31, gained worldwide fame for his part in averting the terror attack and
the vivid interviews he gave afterwards.

The online petition, which is being backed by scores of Paisley folk, was
started by Annette Kerr.

It says: "We wish to register our support for equal recognition for all the
civilian heroes of the Glasgow Airport terror attack in June 2007.

"They all played their part in preventing the terrorists from carrying out their
atrocities, and they should all be awarded for their brave and gallant actions."

PM Gordon Brown e-mailed everyone who had signed the petition saying he was
aware of, and grateful for, the contribution of all three during the incident on
June 30 last year.

He explained: "The process for assessing gallantry awards has evolved over many
years, and is subject to constant checks for consistency in the award of medals.

"Recommendations for gallantry awards are assessed by the George Cross
Committee, whose members are experienced in considering similar cases.

"The evidence comes from the police and others involved in the management of an
incident. It is against this background that the incident in Glasgow was
considered very carefully.

"Decisions are made on the basis of the information available.

"If there is new information, preferably in the form of statements given to the
police, then the committee would be very pleased to look at the matter again.

"Once again there is no doubt that the actions of all three men were very highly
regarded.

"It is clear from the support for this petition how much the public appreciates
what they did."

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 15, 2008, Sunday

WILLS TERROR ATTACK;
 EXCLUSIVE SAILOR PRINCE IN AL-QAEDA PERIL CRUISE BRITS ARE BOMB

BYLINE: BY DAVID COLLINS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 483 words

HIGHLIGHT: TARGETS: Ocean liners could be terrorists' target; WILLS FRIGATE: HMS
Iron Duke will be Prince's home


AN evil al-Qaeda plot to kill thousands of cruise ship Brits could plunge Prince
William into the war on terror.

MI6 has discovered that fanatics planned an horrific attack on a huge holiday
liner in the Caribbean.

Passengers would be victims as suicide bombers intend to ram the ship in
speedboats packed with explosives - or plant saboteurs aboard to trigger an
engine room inferno.

Royal Navy frigate Iron Duke - whose 180-strong crew will soon include William,
25 - would be in a prime position to speed to the rescue.

The 4,200-ton warship, in the Caribbean to hunt cocaine runners, would run the
risk of being caught in follow-up blasts aboard the liner. The Prince has just
started two months with the Royal Navy as Sub-Lieutenant Wales after his Army
and RAF service.

The plot was uncovered on a jihadist website which British and American security
services have been monitoring since early this year.

The terror plan echoes an al-Qaeda attack on the US warship Cole in Yemen in
2000.

Terrorists loaded a small boat with explosives and blasted a 12-metre hole in
the ship's hull, killing 17 crew.

MI6 foiled a plot to blow up British ships off Gibraltar in 2002. Al-Qaeda's
plot to target a cruise ship may also have involved terrorists getting jobs as
crew members.

Fellow fanatics would then book cabins as passengers and link up with the rest
of the group once at sea.

They could scuttle the ship by opening underwater hatches or start a disastrous
blaze in the engine room. Some of the world's biggest cruise liners were picked
as possible targets.

The latest generation of ships carry thousands of passengers and British
tourists flock to go on sunshine cruises each year.

MI6 and America's CIA have warned operators to tighten up security on their
holiday ships this summer.

The security services discovered the al-Qaeda terror cell was discussing the
plans in a password-protected forum on a jihadist website. One terrorist offered
his expertise and boasted he already had experience of blowing up ships.

Terrorism expert Neil Doyle said: "Images of passenger ships, deck plans and
technical details were swapped between members of the group.

"They discussed whether to attack one particular ship while it was at sea or in
harbour and how the leader of the cell could get a job on board.

"The conversation ended when one member suggested they should carry on the
discussion elsewhere in case anyone was watching.

"Internet forums used by al-Qaeda are difficult to trace.

They use false names and keep their location confidential."

features@people.co.uk

HELP US DESTROY FAT BEAST

A CHILLING website in Arabic outlined the al-Qaeda plans to target a huge cruise
ship. It said: "A successful strike on this fat beast would fulfil a very
important objective." The message pleaded: "We want your darkest ideas."

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 15, 2008, Sunday

WILLS TERROR ATTACK;
 EXCLUSIVE SAILOR PRINCE IN AL-QAEDA PERIL CRUISE BRITS ARE BOMB

BYLINE: BY DAVID COLLINS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 483 words

HIGHLIGHT: TARGETS: Ocean liners could be terrorists' target; WILLS FRIGATE: HMS
Iron Duke will be Prince's home


AN evil al-Qaeda plot to kill thousands of cruise ship Brits could plunge Prince
William into the war on terror.

MI6 has discovered that fanatics planned an horrific attack on a huge holiday
liner in the Caribbean.

Passengers would be victims as suicide bombers intend to ram the ship in
speedboats packed with explosives - or plant saboteurs aboard to trigger an
engine room inferno.

Royal Navy frigate Iron Duke - whose 180-strong crew will soon include William,
25 - would be in a prime position to speed to the rescue.

The 4,200-ton warship, in the Caribbean to hunt cocaine runners, would run the
risk of being caught in follow-up blasts aboard the liner. The Prince has just
started two months with the Royal Navy as Sub-Lieutenant Wales after his Army
and RAF service.

The plot was uncovered on a jihadist website which British and American security
services have been monitoring since early this year.

The terror plan echoes an al-Qaeda attack on the US warship Cole in Yemen in
2000.

Terrorists loaded a small boat with explosives and blasted a 12-metre hole in
the ship's hull, killing 17 crew.

MI6 foiled a plot to blow up British ships off Gibraltar in 2002. Al-Qaeda's
plot to target a cruise ship may also have involved terrorists getting jobs as
crew members.

Fellow fanatics would then book cabins as passengers and link up with the rest
of the group once at sea.

They could scuttle the ship by opening underwater hatches or start a disastrous
blaze in the engine room. Some of the world's biggest cruise liners were picked
as possible targets.

The latest generation of ships carry thousands of passengers and British
tourists flock to go on sunshine cruises each year.

MI6 and America's CIA have warned operators to tighten up security on their
holiday ships this summer.

The security services discovered the al-Qaeda terror cell was discussing the
plans in a password-protected forum on a jihadist website. One terrorist offered
his expertise and boasted he already had experience of blowing up ships.

Terrorism expert Neil Doyle said: "Images of passenger ships, deck plans and
technical details were swapped between members of the group.

"They discussed whether to attack one particular ship while it was at sea or in
harbour and how the leader of the cell could get a job on board.

"The conversation ended when one member suggested they should carry on the
discussion elsewhere in case anyone was watching.

"Internet forums used by al-Qaeda are difficult to trace.

They use false names and keep their location confidential."

features@people.co.uk

HELP US DESTROY FAT BEAST

A CHILLING website in Arabic outlined the al-Qaeda plans to target a huge cruise
ship. It said: "A successful strike on this fat beast would fulfil a very
important objective." The message pleaded: "We want your darkest ideas."

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 17, 2008 Tuesday

US offers India help in probing terror attacks

LENGTH: 316 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Ghaziabad (Uttar Pradesh) [north Indian state], 16 June: As probe into various
terror attacks in the country continued, the United States Monday [16 June] said
it was ready to help in the process even as the FBI [Federal Bureau of
Investigation, US] launched a programme to share its expertise with Indian
agencies.

"We are ready to offer any kind of help to Indian authorities in investigation
of blast cases if government wants us to do so," said Kathy Stearman, Legal
Attache in the US Embassy here.

She was talking to reporters on the sidelines of a conference - Evidence
Recovery, Preservation and Exploitation Course.

The FBI, which is jointly organizing the conference with the CBI [Central Bureau
of Investigation, India's federal probe agency], is sharing American expertise
in bomb blast investigations with Indian law enforcement agencies.

The programme would provide world-class crime scene training to Indian officials
based on post-blast techniques developed by officials of the US and other
countries.

The techniques include those relating to composition and effects of various
types of explosives, the procedure for processing a post-blast crime scene and
collection and preservation of evidence.

Stearman said joint efforts of Washington and New Delhi were necessary to curb
trans-national crimes like terrorism.

"Through such efforts, not only the US or India, but the whole world would be
benefited," she said addressing the delegates.

The US offer came at a time when the CBI and other agencies are still grappling
with probes into serial bomb blast cases, including those which struck Delhi,
Malegaon, Jaipur, Mumbai and the Samjhauta Express [India-Pakistan train]
explosion.

Stearman said many more joint security initiatives would be taken by both
countries in the near future.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1938gmt 16 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 17, 2008 Tuesday

All 17 Jun 08 attacks on Gaza "were aimed at terrorists" - Israeli sources

LENGTH: 117 words


Text of report by Israel radio on 17 June

A short while ago, a Qassam rocket was fired at a kibbutz in the western Negev.
No injuries or damage were reported.

This afternoon, the Israel Air Force attacked the Gaza Strip three times. First,
a vehicle travelling east of Khan Yunis was attacked and Palestinian sources
reported five dead. Later, it was reported that another vehicle and a group of
armed men were attacked near Dayr al-Balah in the central Gaza Strip. Six
Palestinians were killed in these two attacks. According to reports, one of them
died from the wounds he sustained. IDF sources said all the attacks were aimed
at terrorists.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1500 gmt 17 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                             June 17, 2008, Tuesday
                                  FIN Edition

KNIFEPOINT TERROR;
Court told of 'pre-meditated attack'

BYLINE: GARETH LIGHTFOOT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 316 words


A MAN barged into a neighbour's home and launched a "deliberate pre-meditated
attack" on him with a knife, a Teesside jury heard.

Daniel Hill, 37, is accused of assaulting Graham "Ginger" Puckrin, 36, causing
him serious injuries to the scalp and hand on October 10, 2005.

Prosecutor Jonathan Walker said Hill took a knife from his mother's home, went
to the home of "quiet mild-mannered" Mr Puckrin and aimed the weapon at his head
and stomach. He said Hill had aggressively questioned Mr Puckrin over his
association with Hill's ex-partner while both men lived on Barnaby Avenue,
Middlesbrough.

On the night of the alleged attack, Mr Puckrin was in his kitchen when he heard
a loud bang on his living room window, said Mr Walker.

Teesside Crown Court heard yesterday that Mr Puckrin opened his front door to
see Hill in his garden shouting and saying he wanted to fight.

Mr Puckrin told him to leave and tried to shut the door but Hill barged in and
pushed him, it is alleged.

"The two began to wrestle. Mr Puckrin, who is a small individual, tried to push
the defendant away. He (Hill) then knelt on the chest of Mr Puckrin having
gained strength over him and pinned him down. Mr Puckrin described him as
ranting and raving. He appeared to be making no sense whatsoever.

"He said, 'I want you to listen before I put this into you.' Mr Puckrin felt a
sharp pain."

This was the scalp injury, said Mr Walker, adding: "He saw the defendant had a
large serrated knife in his hand. The defendant swung in the direction of Mr
Puckrin's stomach in, the Crown say, a deliberate attempt to gore the stomach of
Mr Puckrin.

"Mr Puckrin grabbed the knife."

He said the knife broke, leaving the blade in Mr Puckrin's bleeding left hand,
and he pushed Hill away.

Hill, now of Marton Road, Middlesbrough, denies wounding with intent to do
grievous bodily harm. He claimed when arrested: "It was self defence."

Proceeding

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             June 17, 2008 Tuesday

International: Embassy warns Britons in UAE of terror threat: Fear of
'indiscriminate' attacks on western targets: Foreigners make up 80% of 5.6m
population

BYLINE: Ian Black, Middle East editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 557 words


Britain has warned its nationals living in or visiting the United Arab Emirates
that terrorists may be planning indiscriminate attacks at any time.

A statement posted on the website of the British embassy in Abu Dhabi, the UAE
capital, said the country now faces "a high threat of terrorism". The previous
level referred to a "general threat from terrorism". The other categories are
"underlying" and "low". The alert level was under constant review, the embassy
said.

"We believe terrorists may be planning to carry out attacks in the UAE," it
added. "Attacks could be indiscriminate and could happen at any time."

The UAE, comprising seven emirates including Dubai, is home to 100,000 British
expatriates and is visited by a million holidaymakers from the UK a year. The
Gulf country's booming economy is a magnet for foreign investment.

The Foreign Office refused yesterday to elaborate on the reasons behind the
warning, which was issued on Saturday. It is assumed to refer to al-Qaida,
assessed to have suffered serious setbacks in Iraq but still seeking to mount
spectacular attacks against "soft" western targets. Al-Qaida is known to be
aware of revulsion at the killing of Muslims.

The change in the threat level was not a change to travel advice, the Foreign
Office insisted, and was based on advice from posts, intelligence and other
elements.

The UAE is a conservative Muslim country but has become a major regional hub
attracting millions of tourists each year, mainly to the bustling city-state of
Dubai - which is known for its liberal lifestyle.

It also hosts regular visits by US navy ships, and is likely to be the first
Arab country to send an ambassador to Iraq.

Possible targets include places frequented by expatriates and foreign
travellers, such as residential compounds, as well as "military, oil, transport
and aviation interests", according to the embassy. Its language suggests there
is no specific threat. In other cases of intelligence about terrorist attacks
embassies have been temporarily evacuated, relocated or closed.

The UAE does not have heavy security measures in place and it has not suffered
any serious incidents. No other western embassies in the country have issued
similar warnings.

Elsewhere in the Gulf, Saudi Arabia has fought a wave of violence waged by
al-Qaida since 2003, including attacks targeting foreign tourists, residential
compounds and oil installations. Its impoverished neighbour Yemen has also
suffered several attacks claimed by al-Qaida. In Qatar one Briton was killed and
12 people wounded in a suicide bombing at a theatre near a British school in
2005.

The UAE could be seen as a particularly attractive target for al-Qaida as more
than 80% of the 5.6-million population are foreigners. Many are poorly paid
construction workers from south Asia, but there are thousands of professionals
too. Dubai attracts huge numbers of Britons investing in its booming real estate
sector, including skyscrapers and luxury hotels. The UAE has the world's fifth
largest oil reserves.

Tristan Cooper, a risk analyst at Moody's Investors Service, warned the terror
threat could damage the UAE economy. "It could . . . be hit by a political shock
that slowed the inflow of expatriate labour or, in a more extreme scenario,
caused resident expatriates to leave the country," he told the Dow Jones
newswire.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                             June 17, 2008 Tuesday

Blackburn family's brick attacks terror

BYLINE: Emma Cruces

SECTION: BLACKBURN (BLACKBURN)

LENGTH: 317 words


A family has been left living in fear after two brick attacks on their home in a
week.

Yobs smashed the first of two windows at the house in Windermere Close,
Blackburn, at 10.30pm, when a half-brick missed hitting a 21-year-old woman by
seconds.

The Khan family were putting the incident down to random bad luck when another
downstairs room was targeted at the same time just days later.

Following the two attacks - on Monday, June 9, and the following Thursday - the
windows of two front rooms at the terraced house are boarded up and the family
is terrified the same thing could happening again.

Mrs Khan, who declined to give her first name, said: "The first time, we had
just started having our dinner when boom - it hit and the double-glazed window
just exploded.

"The half brick landed in the middle of the room.

"It's a really small room and the window is quite low. The brick would have hit
my 21-year-old cousin on the head, had she still been sitting by the window.

"She had got up and gone into the kitchen just seconds before. It was very
fright-ening, but we assumed it was a one-off and had the window boarded up.

"On Thursday, me, my son and daughter were going to sit in the room with the
boarded-up window but we changed our minds.

"We went into the other room to watch TV instead.

"When a brick came through the window there, we couldn't believe it was
happening again. We were very afraid.

"I am very concerned it will happen a third time and I want to know why it is
happening. We are terrified just to sit in our home.

"It's dreadful and my children are very scared.

"A brick coming through the window is so dangerous and we are just waiting for
it to happen again.

"I just want to feel safe in my own home but I honestly think it will happen
again."

A police spokeswoman appealed for anyone with information to get in touch.

She said: "These were very traumatic incidents for the family involved."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday

UAE editorial criticizes UK, US warning of terrorist attack

LENGTH: 208 words


Text of report in English by Dubai newspaper Gulf News website on 18 June

[Editorial: "UAE is the Safest Place to Live"]

The advisories issued by the embassies of the UK and the US to their nationals
of a possible terrorist threat in the UAE are routine and are within the right
of every country to ensure the safety and security of its citizens. It does not
mean that the UAE faces an imminent attack that deserves special precautions.

However, the way the two advisories were publicly announced and the vague
wording used to express concerns have created a rather uncomfortable situation
and helped no one improve his or her security.

Expatriates from the UK and the US and from everywhere in the world know through
first-hand experience that the UAE is one of the safest countries in the world
and the security of residents here, regardless of nationality, is given
paramount importance.

It would have been better for the UK and the US missions to share intelligence
information available to them with the authorities in charge of security in the
emirates.

The UAE has reassured residents that there is no credible information about any
terrorist threat and the UAE remains a safe place for living.

Source: Gulf News website, Dubai, in English 18 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 19, 2008 Thursday

Iran refutes US media for linking Iran to Iraq terrorist attacks spokesman

LENGTH: 276 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 19 June: Iran on Thursday [19 June] refuted the US media for desperate
attempts to link Iran to the terrorist attacks in Iraq.

"The US has given refuge to terrorist Mojahedin Khalq Organization (MKO) on one
hand and its media are misleading the public opinion by linking Iran to the
terrorist bombings in Iraq, on the other," Foreign Ministry spokesman
Mohammad-Ali Hoseyni said.

He said that the desperate attempts made by the US media aimed at justifying
prolongation of occupation and sow discord between the Iranian and Iraqi
governments and nations have failed so far.

Hoseyni also condemned the recent terrorist attack in Baghdad, criticizing
certain US media for alleged Iran support for special groups in the neighbouring
country.

He further noted that such scenarios are part of the US misinformation campaign
in Iraq and that the allegations by occupiers are baseless and fabricated.

Referring to the goals behind spreading the fake rumours against Iran's role in
Iraq, he said that the enemies try to tarnish Iranians' constructive and
supportive role in the neighbouring country which is backing the Iraqi
democratic process, government and nation.

He further pointed to the rejection of such unfounded accusations by the Iraqi
officials as another proof of the US misinformation campaign.

"The desperate efforts are considered only justification for the continued
presence of occupied forces in Iraq but they fail to undermine the firm
relations between Iranians and Iraqis."

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1355 gmt 19 Jun
08

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                   UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is York

                             June 19, 2008 Thursday

Teenager knifed in attack terror

BYLINE: Nicola Fifield

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: York Press


A TEENAGER has been stabbed in broad daylight in a York street - sparking a
major armed police operation.

The 16-year-old boy, who was knifed in the abdomen at about 11.10am yesterday,
is understood to have been accompanying his pregnant friend to an ante-natal
appointment at York Hospital.

A large-scale police hunt was launched, and a 23-year-old man was arrested by
more than ten armed officers at about 12.30pm, in Clifton Moor.

The victim, who was attacked in a snicket between Maplehurst Avenue and Haxby
Road, has received treatment at York Hospital for a superficial puncture wound.

A spokesperson for North Yorkshire Police said: "The offender actually
accompanied the 16-year-old victim to the hospital before walking out of the
building at about 11.20am.

"He was located and arrested at 12.30pm by officers from the Firearms Support
Unit as he was walking near the Flying Legends pub, at Clifton Moorgate.

"He was compliant throughout and is currently in custody awaiting questioning.

"A knife has been recovered by the police."

Coun Ken King, who represents the Clifton ward, said he was horrified by what
had happened.

He said: "I'm absolutely appalled that a 16-year-old youth has been attacked in
this way.

"It is shocking that there are individuals in York who are carrying knives on
York streets and I hope that police are going to come down heavy on whoever
committed this crime.

"I also hope that the young boy who has been stabbed is recovering well and
isn't too badly injured."

Sergeant Shaun Page, of the Clifton Safer Neighbourhoods Team, urged residents
not to worry.

He said: "This is an isolated incident that is very rare and residents should
not be alarmed.

"You will see us patrolling the streets every day and crime in this area is on
the fall."

Jane Mowat, director of the Safer York Partnership, said: "This is a one-off
case and somebody has been arrested for it, so people should not be alarmed.

"When something like this happens, it is quite common that the victim and the
perpetrator know each other."

Police have issued a witness appeal and anybody with information should phone
York police on 0845 6060247 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The alley between Maplehurst Ave and Haxby Road where a boy was stabbed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 20, 2008 Friday

Russia's Northern Fleet practises responding to terror attack on oil tanker

LENGTH: 473 words


Text of "Novosti Dnya" news report by Russian Zvezda TV, Defence Ministry
controlled, promotes patriotic values, on 11 June

[Presenter] An exercise "Antiterror 2008" has been held in Murmansk. The
Northern Fleet, the Emergencies Ministry and border guards practised joint
actions to respond to an explosive device being planted on an oil tanker. The
reason for holding the special operation was real events that occurred in the
Kola Bay three years ago. [Our correspondent] Svetlana Demeneva has been
convinced that the environment in the Barents Sea is not under threat.

[Correspondent] An explosive device was discovered this morning on the
Belokamenka tanker in the Kola Bay. Specialists have confirmed that it is not a
fake. This is how the exercise "Murmansk Sea Port Antiterror 2008" begins, after
which the situation becomes more complicated. Two groups of terrorists take the
tanker's watch shift hostage. They capture and place a bomb on a diving boat.
With a suicide bomber on board, it tries to get through to the tanker.

The grounds for this exercise were real events in the Kola Bay. An attempt was
made to blow up a tanker in 2005 due to commercial competition. Investigation of
the criminal case is still continuing.

[Valeriy Fedorov, captioned as head of the Russian FSB directorate for Murmansk
Region] Following an order by a businessman, a resident of our city made
attempts to blow up a storage tanker on the in the Kola Bay.

[Correspondent] Heads of operational headquarters from all across Russia's
north-west are observing the exercise. New elements are being practised here for
the first time. Removing an explosive device from on board a floating oil vessel
and cooperation at sea between three agencies - the Emergencies Ministry, border
guards and the Northern Fleet.

[Vladimir Korolev, captioned as deputy commander of the Northern Fleet] The
naval group deals with tasks relating to blockages of the Kola Bay, the middle
stretch in this case, as well as with preventing terrorist attacks, detaining
small-scale vessels with terrorists on board, providing help to vessels in
distress, and organizing preventative underwater grenade launching for the
purpose of destroying terrorists who could escape under water when detained.

[Correspondent] The regional directorate of the Emergencies Ministry is using a
new mobile system for the first time at these exercises. On capturing the small
boat, the terrorists threw the crew overboard. Using a computer, an on-line link
is established with the crisis centre in Murmansk. There is also a link with
such centres in Moscow and St Petersburg. There is feedback during the exercise,
which will be discussed later. But on the whole, according to the preliminary
assessments of those in charge, all subdivisions worked well.

Source: Zvezda TV, Moscow, in Russian 0500 gmt 11 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily Record (PM) - UK

                              June 20, 2008 Friday
                                  East Edition

Needle terror attack of flats girl, 14;
 Hunt for addicts Needle terror attack of flats girl, 14

BYLINE: Amy Devine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 273 words


A DRUG addict squirted a syringe at a terrified teenage girl after she caught
him shooting up in an Edinburgh tower block.

The 14-year-old was on her way home when she discovered a man and a woman
injecting drugs in the stairwell of a high-rise in Leith.

She challenged the pair and the man squirted a syringe of liquid in her face.

The young victim was taken to Edinburgh Royal Infirmary for treatment after the
incident at Inchkeith Court.

Police hunting the pair today branded the attack as "cowardly and vicious".

A Lothian and Borders police spokeswoman said: "This has been a terrifying
experience for the young girl and although she was not seriously hurt, she has
been left understandably shaken.

"She was within her rights to challenge these people and it was a cowardly and
vicious response from the man involved."

The pair seen huddled in the stairwell were both said to be in their early 20s.

The man is described as being white, 6ft tall and of slim build with a pale
complexion.

He had short dark hair, was unshaven and was wearing a dark top and jeans.

The woman was white and very skinny, with dirty yellow teeth.

She had dirty fair shoulder-length hair and was wearing a dark padded jacket and
blue jeans.

Detectives urged anyone who may know the pair to contact them.

The spokeswoman added: "We appeal for anyone who was in the area at the time,
and who recognises the description of the people involved, to get in touch with
us."

Anyone with information about the attack, which happened at 12.45pm on
Wednesday, is urged to contact police on 0131 311 3131 or call Crimestoppers in
confidence on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             June 21, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Doctors deny plotting failed terrorist car bomb attacks;
Two appeared at hearing via video link from prison

BYLINE: MARTIN WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 429 words


TWO doctors yesterday denied plotting the failed terrorist car bomb attacks in
Glasgow and London.

Bilal Abdu llah, 28, and Mohammed Asha, 27, appeared at the Old Bailey via video
link from prison for a pre-trial hearing .

The men are charged with conspiracy to murder and to cause explosions between
January 1, 2006, and July 1, 2007. During a 30-minute hearing of mostly legal
argument, the two men formally denied the charges.

Mr Justice Mackay said a trial, expected to last 12 weeks, will begin on October
2 at Woolwich Crown Court.

Jordanian Asha, of  Newcastle-Under-Lyme, Staffordshire, who wore a white
opennecked shirt, took notes on a laptop computer throughout the hearing as he
sat beside Abdullah.

Abdullah, who is originally from Iraq, but was living in the Halls of Residence
at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, was arrested after a Jeep vehicle
was driven into the doors of the arrivals hall of Glasgow Airport on June 30.

Asha was arrested on the M6 motorway near Sandbach in Cheshire later that day.
His wife, Marwa Asha, 27, was also seized by police at the same time but she was
released without charge.

The investigation was launched after two cars with makeshift bomb materials
including petrol, nails and gas cylinders were found in London on June 29.

The first device was discovered in a green Mercedes car parked near Piccadilly
Circus.

It was found when an ambulance crew noticed the car was filling up with fumes.

A quick-thinking police officer disconnected a mobile phone he found in the car
before bomb squad officers arrived.

The second lethal device was discovered in a Mercedes a few hundred yards away
which had been towed away after being found illegally parked. It was feared at
the time that wide-scale damage to people and property could have been caused if
the bombs had gone off The following day, a Jeep Cherokee loaded with gas
canisters and gasoline was driven into the main terminal at Glasgow Airport on
its busiest day of the year.

One of the men in the vehicle, Kafeel Ahmed, suffered 90per cent burns and later
died from his injuries .

Ahmed's brother, Dr Sabeel Ahmed, 26, an NHS doctor received an 18-month jail
sentence after pleading guilty to withholding information about terrorism, an
offence that carried a maximum sentence of five years.

The Old Bailey heard in April that the sentence was reduced because he did not
read an e-mail about the attack from his brother until after the attack had
taken place.

The case against Abdullah and Asha was adjourned until July 25 when a pre-trial
review will take place at the Old Bailey.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAZING: A Jeep crashed into Glasgow Airport last June setting off an
explosion. The attack was linked to previous failed car bombs in London.
Picture: STR ABDULLAH: Arrested over Glasgow Airport Jeep attack. ASHA: Arrested
in Cheshire after Glasgow attack.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                 June 22, 2008
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BECKS A TERROR TARGET;
PLOT TO ATTACK HOLIDAY ISLE

BYLINE: WORLD EXCLUSIVE by NEIL CHANDLER, Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 9

LENGTH: 443 words


BRIT spies have uncovered an al-Qaida plot to target David Beckham and other
England football stars.

MI6 spooks learned the terrorists were planning to attack a holiday paradise in
Dubai where Beckham and other stars have homes.

The news sparked a fresh security alert in the Arab Emirates state and the
Foreign Office has now upped its threat warning from "general" to "high". The
British Embassy in Dubai warned travellers: "There is a high threat from
terrorism.

"We believe terrorists may be planning to carry out attacks in the United Arab
Emirates. Attacks could be indiscriminate and could happen at any time,
including in places frequented by expatriates and foreign travellers such as
residential compounds, military, oil, transport and aviation interests.

"You should maintain a high level of security awareness, particularly in public
places."

Beckham and his fellow footballers Gary Neville, Michael Owen, David James, Joe
Cole, Andy Cole and Kieron Dyer all have properties on the artificial island of
Palm Jumeirah, known as the "eighth wonder of the world".

The millionaires' playground has been mentioned several times as a potential
target on al-Qaida websites monitored by the security services.

Also mentioned was the Burj Al-Arab, the world's tallest hotel.

Both potential targets featured in a video issued by the Global Islamic Media
Front - al-Qaida's media arm - in March 2006, which resulted in arrests in
Germany and Austria.

One lengthy online discussion on May 22 about mounting bomb attacks in Dubai
refers to "the towers and the islands" where many Brits are based, because "they
run the oil refineries and have the wealth". The last message posted on the
subject, dated May 30, says:

"We are ready but this matter requires good planning and direction."

Discussion of the subject ceased mysteriously two days later. There are 78
messages in total.

Beckham bought his house on Palm Jumeirah for GBP 800,000 in 2002.

It is now thought to be worth GBP 8million and is regularly used by his wife
Victoria's parents Tony and Jackie Adams.

Afghan president Hamid Karzai was recently rumoured to have bought a property
there opposite that of West Ham winger Dyer.

Islamists are outraged that troops from the United Arab Emirates are the only
Arabs serving alongside British and American soldiers in Afghanistan.

Al-Qaida is also reported to be developing a new tactic of seaborne raids -
increasing fears of an attack on Palm Jumeirah.

The palm-shaped island is four times the size of London's Hyde Park and will
eventually become home to 65,000 people.

Emirates chiefs hope the Palm will bring a tourist boom to the UAE to help it
cope when oil runs out.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREATENED: Beckham owns an GBP 8million holiday pad on the island of
Palm Jumeirah, left
ICONIC: Burj Al-Arab hotel towers over Dubai city - it is also said to be terror
target
HOME: Michael Owen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 24, 2008 Tuesday

McCain aide says terror attack 'would help Republicans'

BYLINE:  Tom Baldwin, Washington

SECTION: OVERSEAS NEWS; Pg.35

LENGTH: 592 words


John McCain yesterday delivered a sharp rebuke to one of his most senior
advisers who had suggested that another terrorist attack on America could propel
the Republican nominee into the White House.

Charlie Black, a veteran Republican strategist who has already come under fire
for his past ties to lobbyists, told Fortune magazine that a terror incident on
US soil "certainly would be a big advantage" to Mr McCain.

He also cited the "unfortunate event" of the assassination of Benazir Bhutto in
Pakistan in December, shortly before Mr McCain staged his comeback in the
Republican primary contest. "His knowledge and ability to talk about it re
emphasised that this is the guy who's ready to be Commander-in-Chief. And it
helped us."

The sudden row over his adviser embarrassed Mr McCain's campaign yesterday, when
he had hoped to focus on energy issues and a headline-catching initiative to
offer $300million (£ 150million) to anyone who developed a revolutionary car
battery.

Asked about Mr Black's comments during a press conference in Fresno, California,
Mr McCain stated that he wished to "strenuously disagree" with them. "I cannot
imagine why he would say it. It's not true," he said. "I've worked tirelessly
since 9/11 to prevent another attack on the United States of America. My record
is very clear."

Mr Black, confronted by reporters outside a fundraising event, read from
handwritten notes. "I deeply regret the comments. They were inappropriate," he
said. "I recognise that John McCain has devoted his entire adult life to
protecting his country and placing its security before every other
consideration."

Campaign officials said that he did not explicitly remember the comment, but did
not dispute it. According to one source, he was trying to emphasise that Mr
McCain was favoured by most voters on national security issues.

The campaign of the Democratic nominee, Barack Obama, seized upon the comments
as further evidence of the type of politics that had been practised by the
Republican in previous elections.

Bill Burton, a campaign spokesman, said: "Barack Obama welcomes a debate about
terrorism with John McCain, who has fully supported the Bush policies that have
taken our eye off of al-Qaeda, failed to bring Osama bin Laden to justice, and
made us less safe. The fact that John McCain's top adviser says that a terrorist
attack on American soil would be a 'big advantage' for their political campaign
is a complete disgrace.

"Barack Obama will turn the page on these failed policies and this cynical and
divisive brand of politics so that we can unite this nation around a common
purpose to finish the fight against al-Qaeda."

Four years ago President Bush and other Republicans argued that his opponent,
John Kerry, was soft on terrorism while questioning the record of the Democratic
party record on national security after the 9/11 attacks. A tape from Osama bin
Laden days before that election suggesting that he wanted Mr Kerry to win was
widely regarded as having benefited Mr Bush.

Many measures taken by the Bush administration to protect the US, including the
Guantanamo Bay camp for terror suspects and domestic wire tapping - as well as
the war in Iraq - have become increasingly the focus of national or
international controversy.

CAMPAIGN GAFFES

In March, McCain said that Iran, a mostly Shia country, was supplying the mostly
Sunni group, al-Qaeda

The Democrat Rudy Giuliani interrupted a speech to the National Rifle
Association to take a mobile phone call from his wife

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday

Three Pakistan "terror suspects" confess to plotting suicide attacks

LENGTH: 210 words


Text of report headlined "3 terror suspects plead guilty" published by Pakistani
newspaper Daily Times website on 25 June

Rawalpindi: Three terror suspects confessed on Tuesday to plotting suicide
attacks at sensitive government buildings and to having links with militant
leader Baitullah Mehsud.

Civil Judge and Judicial Magistrate Chaudhry Taufeeq Ahmad recorded the
confession statements of Abid Khan, Muhammad Ishaq and Qamaruz Zaman. The three
were sent to Adiala Jail on judicial remand for 14 days and the case was
adjourned until July 8.

Court sources told Daily Times that the accused had also confessed to planning a
suicide attack targeting a "high profile personality". They said the three were
included in the nine people arrested in a large-scale raid in the city, and a
massive quantity of explosives was also seized from them. Their remaining six
accomplices were taken to the Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC).

ATC No 2 sent Zafar Ali, Muhammad Zameer, Tauqeer Ahmad and Muhammad Sajjad on a
14-day judicial remand for further investigation. Muhammad Kabir and Intikhab
Abbasi were remanded to the custody of Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) for
seven days. Their case was adjourned until July 1.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 25 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

WE'LL STRIKE FEAR INTO ANYBODY!;
Naisy reckons Gers can put out attack force to terrorise every defence they face

BYLINE: By GARY KEOWN

SECTION: SPORT FOOTBALL; 55

LENGTH: 661 words


RANGERS ace Stevie Naismith reckons manager Walter Smith is ready to mix up a
potent attack force to get his hands back on the SPL title.

The 21-year-old, who looks like missing most of the campaign as he recovers from
cruciate ligament surgery, has seen the club spend GBP 6million on Kyle
Lafferty, Kenny Miller and Andrius Velicka to give themselves a barrowload of
striking options.

With a GBP 2.5m Cardiff bid for Kris Boyd being turned down and Nacho Novo and
Lee McCulloch likely to stay put, Daniel Cousin and Jean-Claude Darcheville
appear most likely to be on the way out in the summer.

Naismith believes all three of the new boys bring something different to the
frontline mix.

The ex-Killie man said: "I managed to see Kyle when he was in having a look
around the club and he is some size.

"It doesn't take a genius to work out that he'll win his fair share of headers
and, although he is still a young man coming through, he has shown his presence
in the English leagues.

"Kenny obviously does a lot of running and has proven himself with Scotland.

"He hassles defenders while I'd say Velicka is a bit of an all-rounder.

"He is big and strong and scored a number of good goals when he was with Hearts.

"The new boys are really good because all three have shown they are capable of
doing well with their styles of play.

"They are three good additions and it makes for more competition among the
strikers.

"They are big names and I hope they can help us push for the title after coming
up just short last season." Naismith has no idea which forwards will leave Ibrox
over the summer but he believes his former Rugby Park team-mate Boyd (left) has
a long-term part to play.

He said: "I don't think anyone's scoring record is going to be near Boydy's, but
it is going to be the manager's decision.

"There's no other league like this and the manager is right to rotate players.

"He said that to me last season. You could have a great game and be on the bench
the next week.

"It is not because you've been poor. It is just because he's resting you.

"He knows what he's doing and I am sure he'll know how many strikers he wants."
Naismith is also pleased to see the club keep one eye on the other end of the
field, though, by holding talks aimed at nailing centre-half Davie Weir and
keeper Allan McGregor down on new deals.

He said: "Huge credit has to go to Allan and Davie for helping the team get to
the likes of the UEFA Cup final because we put in some great defensive displays
during that run. In the game in Germany against Werder Bremen, Allan made one of
the best saves I have ever seen in my life.

"Big Davie and the other guys at the back such as Carlos Cuellar and Sasa Papac
did tremendously well, too.

"It is good to see the management trying to tie these players down."

Naismith missed the thrilling climax of last term after damaging his knee in the
Scottish Cup semi-final win over St Johnstone.

The Scotland Under-21 cap collapsed in a heap shortly after being trampled on by
opposition midfielder Martin Hardie.

Naismith, however, has shot down claims the Saints man deliberately stamped on
his knee.

Naismith recalled: "I landed awkwardly and it didn't help that I was falling to
the side before being taken off, but I think it was the earlier challenge that
did the damage.

"I don't feel angry about the tackle because you know injuries can happen when
you are a footballer.

"Martin was with me at Kilmarnock and texted me afterwards to say that he was
sorry. He didn't have to do that and I appreciated it. It also tells me that he
didn't mean it.

"I got injured at the worst possible time because the games were coming thick
and fast, we were getting into cup finals and fighting for the league as well.

"Going to Manchester with the squad for the UEFA Cup final was an experience
I'll never forget and that gives me the incentive to get back and play in big
games.

"Missing out that night was a massive thing and it gives me the hunger to do my
best when I get back."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON THE ATTACK: Naismith reckons Gers new boys Lafferty, Miller and
(right) Velicka will allow boss Walter Smith to really mix things up in the
striking department
CHARITABLE: Steven Naismith hands a GBP 75,000 cheque to Louise Irvine (British
Red Cross), Charlotte Hunter (Cystic Fybrosis) and Kyle McLaren (Craighalbert
Centre) on behalf of the Rangers Charity Foundation Pic: Willie Vass

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Aide who said terror attack would benefit McCain faces calls to quit

BYLINE: David Usborne in New York

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1970 words


A foreign policy adviser to John McCain is under pressure to quit after he
suggested that a terror attack on the US between now and the presidential
election would translate into a "big advantage" for the Republican nominee.

Charlie Black issued a statement regretting the remark, which came in an
interview he gave for the July issue of Fortune magazine. "I deeply regret the
comments," he said. "They were inappropriate. I recognise that John McCain has
devoted his entire adult life to protecting his country and placing its security
before every other consideration."

At the heart of the controversy was his suggestion that a terror attack would
"certainly be a big advantage to" to Mr McCain. He also said that the
"unfortunate event" of the assassination of Benazir Bhutto in December "helped
us".

Mr McCain was quick to disown his adviser's remarks. "I cannot imagine why he
would say it. It's not true," he said on the campaign trail. "I've worked
tirelessly since 9/11 to prevent another attack on the United States of America.
My record is very clear."

The Obama campaign directed reporters yesterday to Richard Ben-Veniste, a member
of the 9/11 Commission that investigated the terror attacks of 2001. He said Mr
Black's remarks were "a candid and very disappointing glimpse into the thinking
of one of McCain's closest advisers". While he did not flatly ask Mr Black to
resign, he added: "I think the remarks were so out of place that they call for
some recalibration in the thinking and perhaps a greater adherence to principle
here in staying away from the politics of fear."

The McCain camp has hardly made any secret of its interest in painting Mr Obama
as insufficiently experienced on foreign affairs and, by implication,
potentially less well prepared to protect the country from further attacks.
However, the attempts of Republicans in the 2006 US Congressional elections to
portray Democrats as soft on terrorists apparently had little impact on voters.

Earlier, Mr Obama's spokesman, Bill Burton, had characterised the remark by Mr
Black as a "complete disgrace" and "exactly the kind of politics that needs to
change".

*Former president Bill Clinton will support Barack Obama in the US presidential
election this autumn, his spokesman has said. It is the first time the former
president has indicated he would support his wife's former rival since the
Democratic primary battle ended three weeks ago.

TTo bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees and fill alll fruit with ripeness
to the core. To swell the gourd and plump the hazel shells with a sweet kernel,
to set budding more an d still more later flowers for the bees until they think
warm days will never cease for summer has o'er-brimmed thieir clammy cells. When
in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes , I HHHH FOUR HUNDRED WORDS

I, all alone, beweep my outcast state, and trouble deaf heaven with my bootless
cries, and look up on myself and cirse my fate, wishing me like to one more rich
in hope, featured like him, like him with friends possessed, desiring this man's
art and that man's scope, with what I most enjoy contented least,

TYet, in these thoughts myself almost despising, haply I thinkm on thee, and
then my state, like to the lark at break of day arising from sullen earth sings
hymns at heaven's gate. For thy sweet love rememebered such welath brings that
then I *FIVE HUNDRED WORDS.

Scorn to vhange my state with kings. I met a travller from an an antique land
who said, "Two vast and trunkless legs of stone stand in the desert.

"Near them on the sand, half sunk, a shattered visage lies whose frown and
wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command tell that its sculptor well those
passions read which yet survive, stamped on these lifless things, the hand that
mocked them and the heart that fed.

T"And on the pedestal these words appear: 'My name is Ozymandias, king of kings;
look on my works, ye mighty and despair.' " nH SIX HUNDRED WORDS

Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness, close-bosom friend of the maturing sun,
conspiring with him how to load and bless with fruit the vines that round the
thatch-eves run.

TTo bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees and fill alll fruit with ripeness
to the core. To swell the gourd and plump the hazel shells with a sweet kernel,
to set budding more an d still more later flowers for the bees until they think
warm days will never cease for summer has o'er-brimmed thieir clammy cells. When
in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes , I nHH SEVEN HUNDRED WORDS

I, all alone, beweep my outcast state, and trouble deaf heaven with my bootless
cries, and look up on myself and cirse my fate, wishing me like to one more rich
in hope, featured like him, like him with friends possessed, desiring this man's
art and that man's scope, with what I most enjoy contented least,

TYet, in these thoughts myself almost despising, haply I thinkm on thee, and
then my state, like to the lark at break of day arising from sullen earth sings
hymns at heaven's gate. For thy sweet love rememebered such welath brings that
then I nHHH EIGHT HUNDRED WORDS.

Scorn to vhange my state with kings. I met a travller from an an antique land
who said, "Two vast and trunkless legs of stone stand in the desert.

"Near them on the sand, half sunk, a shattered visage lies whose frown and
wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command tell that its sculptor well those
passions read which yet survive, stamped on these lifless things, the hand that
mocked them and the heart that fed.

T"And on the pedestal these words appear: 'My name is Ozymandias, king of kings;
look on my works, ye mighty and despair.' " nHHHH NINE HUNDRED WORDS

Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness, close-bosom friend of the maturing sun,
conspiring with him how to load and bless with fruit the vines that round the
thatch-eves run.

TTo bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees and fill alll fruit with ripeness
to the core. To swell the gourd and plump the hazel shells with a sweet kernel,
to set budding more an d still more later flowers for the bees until they think
warm days will never cease for summer has o'er-brimmed thieir clammy cells. When
in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes , I nn ONE THOUSAND WORDS

CabinetSeason of mists and mellow fruitfulness, close-bosom friend of the
maturing sun, conspiring with him how to load and bless with fruit the vines
that round the thatch-eves run.

To bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees and fill alll fruit with ripeness
to the core. To swell the gourd and plump the hazel shells with a sweet kernel,
to set budding more an d still more later flowers for the bees until they think
warm days will never cease for summer has o'er-brimmed thieir clammy cells. When
in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes , *** H ONE HUNDRED WORDS

I, all alone, beweep my outcast state, and trouble deaf heaven with my bootless
cries, and look up on myself and cirse my fate, wishing me like to one more rich
in hope, featured like him, like him with friends possessed, desiring this man's
art and that man's scope, with what I most enjoy contented least,

TYet, in these thoughts myself almost despising, haply I thinkm on thee, and
then my state, like to the lark at break of day arising from sullen earth sings
hymns at heaven's gate. For thy sweet love rememebered such welath brings that
then I HH TWO HUNDRED WORDS.

Scorn to vhange my state with kings. I met a travller from an an antique land
who said, "Two vast and trunkless legs of stone stand in the desert.

"Near them on the sand, half sunk, a shattered visage lies whose frown and
wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command tell that its sculptor well those
passions read which yet survive, stamped on these lifless things, the hand that
mocked them and the heart that fed.

T"And on the pedestal these words appear: 'My name is Ozymandias, king of kings;
look on my works, ye mighty and despair.' " HHH THREE HUNDRED WORDS

Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness, close-bosom friend of the maturing sun,
conspiring with him how to load and bless with fruit the vines that round the
thatch-eves run.

TTo bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees and fill alll fruit with ripeness
to the core. To swell the gourd and plump the hazel shells with a sweet kernel,
to set budding more an d still more later flowers for the bees until they think
warm days will never cease for summer has o'er-brimmed thieir clammy cells. When
in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes , I HHHH FOUR HUNDRED WORDS

I, all alone, beweep my outcast state, and trouble deaf heaven with my bootless
cries, and look up on myself and cirse my fate, wishing me like to one more rich
in hope, featured like him, like him with friends possessed, desiring this man's
art and that man's scope, with what I most enjoy contented least,

TYet, in these thoughts myself almost despising, haply I thinkm on thee, and
then my state, like to the lark at break of day arising from sullen earth sings
hymns at heaven's gate. For thy sweet love rememebered such welath brings that
then I *FIVE HUNDRED WORDS.

Scorn to vhange my state with kings. I met a travller from an an antique land
who said, "Two vast and trunkless legs of stone stand in the desert.

"Near them on the sand, half sunk, a shattered visage lies whose frown and
wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command tell that its sculptor well those
passions read which yet survive, stamped on these lifless things, the hand that
mocked them and the heart that fed.

T"And on the pedestal these words appear: 'My name is Ozymandias, king of kings;
look on my works, ye mighty and despair.' " nH SIX HUNDRED WORDS

Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness, close-bosom friend of the maturing sun,
conspiring with him how to load and bless with fruit the vines that round the
thatch-eves run.

TTo bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees and fill alll fruit with ripeness
to the core. To swell the gourd and plump the hazel shells with a sweet kernel,
to set budding more an d still more later flowers for the bees until they think
warm days will never cease for summer has o'er-brimmed thieir clammy cells. When
in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes , I nHH SEVEN HUNDRED WORDS

I, all alone, beweep my outcast state, and trouble deaf heaven with my bootless
cries, and look up on myself and cirse my fate, wishing me like to one more rich
in hope, featured like him, like him with friends possessed, desiring this man's
art and that man's scope, with what I most enjoy contented least,

TYet, in these thoughts myself almost despising, haply I thinkm on thee, and
then my state, like to the lark at break of day arising from sullen earth sings
hymns at heaven's gate. For thy sweet love rememebered such welath brings that
then I nHHH EIGHT HUNDRED WORDS.

Scorn to vhange my state with kings. I met a travller from an an antique land
who said, "Two vast and trunkless legs of stone stand in the desert.

"Near them on the sand, half sunk, a shattered visage lies whose frown and
wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command tell that its sculptor well those
passions read which yet survive, stamped on these lifless things, the hand that
mocked them and the heart that fed.

T"And on the pedestal these words appear: 'My name is Ozymandias, king of kings;
look on my works, ye mighty and despair.' " nHHHH NINE HUNDRED WORDS

Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness, close-bosom friend of the maturing sun,
conspiring with him how to load and bless with fruit the vines that round the
thatch-eves run.

TTo bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees and fill alll fruit with ripeness
to the core. To swell the gourd and plump the hazel shells with a sweet kernel,
to set budding more an d still more later flowers for the bees until they think
warm days will never cease for summer has o'er-brimmed thieir clammy cells. When
in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes , I nn ONE THOUSAND WORDS

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday

One killed in "terror" attack on Turkish military vehicle

LENGTH: 140 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

["TERRORIST ATTACK ON VEHICLE KILLS ONE, WOUNDS FOUR IN DIYARBAKIR" - AA
headline]

LICE (A.A) -26.05.2008 -A terrorist attack on a vehicle carrying soldiers killed
one and wounded four in the southeastern province of Diyarbakir on Thursday.

The civilian driver of a minivan died and four soldiers were injured when PKK
terrorists opened fire with long-range guns on four civilian minivans carrying
soldiers in Diyarbakir's Lice town, authorities said.

28-year-old driver Mehdin Dogandemir lost his life at the scene of the armed
attack. The vans were carrying soldiers who were on a temporary duty in a
military unit in Diyarbakir's Tapantepe hamlet.

Security forces have launched a wide-scale operation in the vicinity.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0701 gmt 26 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday

Pole attack OAP tells of his terror ordeal

BYLINE: JAMES BRINDLE

LENGTH: 346 words


A BURTON pensioner who was attacked with a metal scaffolding pole in his own
home by a burglar has spoken of his terrifying ordeal.  Dennis Sharp, 67,
suffered severe cuts and bruises to his head and face after the frenzied attack
at his home in Harper Avenue, Horninglow. The attacker used the pole to floor Mr
Sharp before stealing 90. Mr Sharp told The Mail that he knew 'very little'
about the attack, saying: "Somebody just burst in through the back door and
attacked me.

I remember being battered about the head while I was down on the floor and then
he robbed me.  "He had a metal scaffolding pole, but he didn't knock me out, he
just decked me. He must have hit me about half a dozen times. There was nothing
else done, no damage to the house. He just wanted the money, that was all." Mr
Sharp, who had to be taken to Burton's Queen's Hospital, said he had never
experienced any problems before.  He said: "I have been here 16 years and I have
never had a problem. I am satisfied living here, I know all the neighbours. "I
keep getting flashbacks about it every so often. I thought I was dreaming at the
time. I've never experienced anything like that in my life." Mr Sharp also said
he had one overriding emotion after the vicious assault, which took place
between 6pm and 8pm on Wednesday, June 18. He said: "I feel really angry. If I
had a pole I would do the same to him. I've no idea who it was, though. He was
completely covered up head to foot, so I don't know whether he was black or
white or anything." The level of violence used in the attack has shocked police.
Det Sgt Ian Fitzgerald, of Burton police, said the attack was 'extremely
unusual' for the area and appealed for witnesses to come forward. He said:
"Someone has got to know something. This type of attack is very uncommon,
particularly with this level of violence. The theft of a pensioner's very meagre
earnings makes this crime all the more callous. "We would appeal for anyone with
information to telephone Burton CID on 01785 234 971 or telephone crimestoppers,
in confidence, on 0800 555 111."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2008 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 27, 2008 Friday
                                  Eire Edition

'HE PUNCHED ME SO HARD I THOUGHT HE'D STABBED ME.. I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT HIT ME';
EXCLUSIVE BOYZONE MIKEY TELLS OF HIS ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: BY PAUL MARTIN SHOWBIZ REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 333 words


BOYZONE star Mikey Graham was recovering last after he was attacked by the
furious husband of a fan.

The Dubliner was jumped by a man who claimed Mikey hadn't replied to his wife's
mail.

Mikey was outside the band's Marcliffe Hotel in Aberdeen, Scotland, when the
no-warning assault was launched.

He said: "He shouted, 'You are a b****rd. You haven't written back to my wife.
I'll f***ing teach you a lesson'."

The attacker then unleashed a volley of punches to the singer's stomach and
head.

But Mikey landed two huge blows on the man and sent him reeling to the ground.

The star hit him so hard he required medical treatment - but the attacker fled
before Boyzone's security guards were alerted.

Mikey said: "I thought he had stabbed me because he punched me so hard in the
kidney.

"I didn't know what hit me.

"I had been signing a few autographs and taking a stroll and suddenly this guy
came out of nowhere and started shouting all this abuse.

"He was going on about how I hadn't replied to letters his wife sent. I always
reply to fan mail and I told him that.

"Then he just went berserk. I had no choice but to defend myself. I went into
autopilot.

"It's worrying that something like this can happen but there will always be one
idiot."

Yesterday Mikey was recovering from the ordeal and was seen at the hotel with
his arm in a bandage. CCTV in the area will be studied in a bid to identify the
attacker.

Two female Boyzone fans, who had been sleeping outside their hotel in the hope
of catching a glimpse of their heroes, witnessed the incident and will make
statements.

Mikey was so badly injured in the bust-up he had to be taken to a private
medical clinic to have his hand scanned for fractures.

He added: "They bandaged me up and told me not to do anything too strenuous but
I'm on tour so the show must go on.

"We have our homecoming gig at the RDS on Saturday and I wouldn't miss that.
Hopefully I'll be out of the bandage."

It's worrying that something like this can happen but there's always one idiot

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 28, 2008 Saturday

Four security men said killed in terrorist attack east of Algiers

LENGTH: 147 words


Three gendarmes and a communal guard member were killed on 26 June by a
terrorist group in the eastern province of Jijel, some 300 km to the east of
Algiers, the private French-language daily newspaper Liberte reported today, 28
June.

Liberte said that the four security men were killed in an ambush laid by a
"terrorist group linked to the GSPC [Salafi Group for Call and Combat, which
renamed itself the Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb, AQLIM]. The
paper added that another gendarme and a communal guard were also injured in the
attack, while on "a routine patrol". While the attack was taking place, a nearby
communal guard post was surrounded by "another terrorist group", the paper
noted, adding that its mission was to block the guards from leaving their
barracks to rescue their colleagues who were under attack.

Source: Liberte, website, Algiers, in French 28 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             June 28, 2008 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

EXTRA pounds 3.8M WILL TACKLE TERROR;
 Cash windfall after airport attack EXTRA pounds 3.8M WILL TACKLE TERROR

BYLINE: ANDY NEWPORT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 491 words


COPS fighting terrorists are to get a cash boost to help them in the battle to
keep us safe.

The move comes almost a year after evil suicide bombers tried to blow-up Glasgow
Airport.

The terrorist plot on June 30, last year when a Cherokee Jeep packed with fuel
and explosives was driven into the Paisley terminal building - brought home the
reality that Scotland is now a target for extremists.

Now Holyrood chiefs have responded to that with the extra money.

They will give police forces an additional pounds 3.8 million over the next two
years to combat terrorism and protect communities.

The funding will enable the creation of more than 50 counter terrorism posts
across Scotland with the aim of making ports and airports more secure and allow
the police to work with communities to raise awareness of terrorism.

In particular, the Scottish Government is developing with the Association of
Chief Police Offers in Scotland and key agencies, a Scottish approach to
preventing terrorism as part of the UK counter-terrorism strategy CONTEST.

It will focus on improving communications, improving knowledge and understanding
and, through a new delivery unit, co-ordinating project interventions.

It has also been announced that the amount of police grant paid directly to
police authorities will increase by almost pounds 53 million over the next three
years.

Justice secretary Kenny MacAskill said: "All in Scotland, regardless of their
background, are united by their common humanity and Scotland came together a
year ago to stand united as a nation against terrorism.

"Our diversity gives us strength, and that strength was clearly demonstrated
when our communities united to show their disgust and contempt for those who
attacked Glasgow Airport so ruthlessly last year.

"As last year's attack at Glasgow Airport showed, terrorism respects no
boundaries. Terrorism is a threat to all of our communities. We all need to work
together to reduce the threat of another terrorist attack.

"The Scottish Government is fully committed to the fight against terrorism and
that is why we are equipping our police forces to tackle this menace.

"These additional counter terrorism officers will help to make our ports and
airports more secure and allow the police to work with communities to raise
awareness of terrorism and related issues to make Scotland a safer place.

"We will continue to work with other jurisdictions, south of the border and
elsewhere to ensure the safety of all our citizens and that those who seek to
disrupt our way of life to perpetrate terror are prosecuted for their crimes."

Counter terrorism is an element of National Security, which is reserved to
Westminster.

Since 2003, CONTEST has been the UK framework for countering terrorism. Many
aspects of prevention and consequence management are devolved, however, and the
Scottish Government plays a prominent role in delivering the CONTEST strategy in
Scotland.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FLASHBACK: The attack at Glasgow Airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 29, 2008 Sunday

Pakistan court indicts five terror suspects for planning attacks

LENGTH: 619 words


Text of report by Ishaq Tanoli headlined "Five suspects indicted in terror case"
published by Pakistan newspaper Dawn website on 29 June

Karachi, 28 June: The additional district and sessions judge-II, Central, on
Saturday [28 June] indicted five suspected terrorists for possessing illegal
weapons and explosive substance and for planning attacks on mourning processions
during Ashura [10th day of Muharram].

However, pleading not guilty, the accused opted to contest the case. The judge,
Nelofer Shahnawaz, summoned all the prosecution witnesses directing them to
appear in the court on the next hearing to testify in the case.

According to the prosecution, five suspected terrorists identified [names
omitted] were arrested by the CID [Criminal Investigation Department] police
from North Karachi. The suspects were allegedly planning to carry out suicide
attacks on the processions during Ashura.

The investigation officer stated in the charge-sheet that acting on a tip-off
the CID police conducted a raid on a house in North Karachi on January 19. The
house reportedly served as the suspects' hideout where they also used to store
weapons and other explosives. During the raid, the suspects opened fire on the
police party but were finally arrested after a shootout. The CID police had
seized illegal weapons and explosives from the possession of the accused.

Six cases (FIR Nos 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 10/08) were registered against the accused
under Sections 324, 353/34 of the Pakistan Penal Code, 13-D of Arms Ordinance
and 3/4 of Explosive Act at the New Karachi police station. The court has fixed
July 12 as the next date of hearing.

Warrants re-issued

The additional district and sessions judge-VII, South, Irfan Hussain Siddiqui,
re-issued non-bailable warrants for the arrest of the former chairman of the
National Accountability Bureau (NAB), Saifur Rehman Khan, his brother, Mujibur
Rehman Khan, the former inspector-general of Sindh police, Rana Maqbool, former
DIG [Deputy Inspector General] Farooq Amin Qureshi and the former superintendent
of the Central Prison, Karachi, Najaf Mirza, in a case pertaining to an attempt
on the life of Asif Ali Zardari in 1999.

Earlier, on June 14 the court had issued non-bailable warrants for the arrest of
the accused and directed the investigation officer to arrest them and produce
them in the court.

However, the IO [Investigating Officer] in the case submitted a report in court
on Saturday stating that the police were still searching for the accused and
therefore, needed more time. He argued that some of them had left the country.

Appearing in court on behalf of Mr Zardari, Adnan Karim advocate accused the
police of deliberately avoiding arrest of the accused as some of them belonged
to the police force.

He requested the court to seek the help of the Interpol for the arrest of those
staying in foreign countries.

However, the court asked Zardari's counsel to submit an application in this
regard and re-issued non-bailable arrest warrants of the accused and fixed July
12 as the next date of hearing.

The judge directed the SSP (Special Investigation Unit) to arrest the accused
and produce them in court on the next date.

Earlier on June 14, the investigation officer, Inspector Tairq Ali had submitted
a charge-sheet in the court, in which he had also nominated former DSP [Deputy
Superintendent of Police] Amanat Javed and Naveed Saeed as the co-accused in the
case. However, the court was informed that both the accused had passed away.

According to the prosecution, the respondents had unlawfully obtained Mr
Zardari's physical custody from an anti-terrorism court on the night between May
15 and May 16, 1999.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 29 Jun 08

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                        June 29, 2008 Sunday 8:06 PM BST

AIRPORT 'TRANSFORMED' A YEAR AFTER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Hilary Duncanson, Scottish Press Association

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 620 words


Glasgow Airport has been completely transformed, one year on from the terror
attack which brought chaos to thousands of holidaymakers, its managing director
said today.

Speaking as the anniversary of the attack approaches, Gordon Dewar said £4
million has been spent in the past 12 months on improving the terminal and
carrying out repairs.

He also insisted it would be business as usual for the airport's 5,000-strong
workforce on tomorrow's anniversary.

``Glasgow Airport has incurred substantial capital costs as a result of the
attack on the terminal,'' Mr Dewar said today.

``Despite this, we have worked hard to deliver improved facilities, at no cost
to our passengers, or to the taxpayer.''

Since the attack, airport operator BAA Glasgow has spent £4 million upgrading
the terminal and forecourt, including repairs to the areas damaged by smoke and
water.

Door two - the point of impact - has been completely rebuilt.

The final phase of the investment will see 300 steel bollards installed along
the inner forecourt, replacing the temporary barriers introduced following the
attack.

Mr Dewar said: ``Today marks the first anniversary of the terror attack on
Glasgow Airport, but for the 5,000 staff who work here, it is just another
working day.''

He praised the ``tremendous courage'' of staff, passengers and emergency
services caught up in the events of the day and said it was thanks to their
support that the airport was able to reopen less than 24 hours after the attack.

The managing director added: ``This is a matter of real pride for the staff
involved. However, one year on, there is no triumphalism, just a quiet
determination to get on with the job and deliver for our passengers.

``We have worked hard over the past year to repair, and refurbish, the terminal
building and there are now few visible signs of last year's attack.

``I am extremely proud of the team effort that has brought us to this point.

``The response from everyone involved in the reconstruction effort has been
superb.''

John Smeaton earlier reflected on the ``crazy'' year he has had since he was
propelled into the public eye after helping police take on a man in a blazing
jeep which had been driven into the airport terminal.

In a TV interview broadcast around the world, he warned: ``This is Glasgow, you
know - we'll set about you'' - a comment which catapulted him to stardom.

And today he insisted: ``It is still surreal.''

Reflecting on the events of that life-changing Saturday, he said: ``At the exact
moment in time you were not frightened, but minutes afterwards you think, 'That
was quiet scary'.

``But it is just one of those thing you have to deal with, you have to get on
with it.

``It is just crazy that my life has just gone from one extreme to another.''

Now known by his nickname of Smeato, he has been feted from London to New York,
mingling with top politicians and celebrities at glitzy bashes.

The man who insists he is ``just an ordinary guy'' has met Prime Minister Gordon
Brown several times, and was publicly congratulated by the PM at the Labour
Party conference in Bournemouth last year.

At the start of December, he travelled to New York to receive an Everyday
Superhero award from TV news channel CNN.

Earlier this year he was given the Queen's Gallantry Medal, one of the highest
British civilian honours for bravery.

But the have-a-go hero's highlight was getting to train with Rangers Football
Club.

He said: ``Training with Rangers was something else. I've been to America and
won awards in America, but that was something else, it was brilliant, amazing.''

Mr Smeaton, who hopes to settle with his girlfriend in the USA, added: ``I don't
class myself as a hero, I don't see myself as that. I am just an ordinary guy.''

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        June 29, 2008 Sunday 2:45 AM BST

HERO REFLECTS ON YEAR SINCE TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Hilary Duncanson, Scottish Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 471 words


Glasgow Airport terror attack hero John Smeaton today reflected on the ``crazy''
year he has had, as the first anniversary of the incident approaches.

The baggage handler was propelled into the public eye on June 30 last year after
helping police take on a man in a blazing jeep which had been driven into the
airport terminal.

In a TV interview broadcast around the world, he famously warned: ``This is
Glasgow, you know - we'll set about you'' - a comment which catapulted him to
stardom immediately after the attack.

Now, a day ahead of tomorrow's anniversary, he insisted: ``It is still
surreal.''

Reflecting on the events of that life-changing Saturday, he said: ``At the exact
moment in time you were not frightened, but minutes afterwards you think, 'That
was quiet scary'.

``But it is just one of those thing you have to deal with, you have to get on
with it.

``It is just crazy that my life has just gone from one extreme to another.''

Now known by his nickname of Smeato, he has been feted from London to New York,
mingling with top politicians and celebrities at glitzy bashes.

The man who insists he is ``just an ordinary guy'' has met Prime Minister Gordon
Brown several times, and was publicly congratulated by the latter at the Labour
Party conference in Bournemouth last year.

At the start of last December, he travelled to New York to receive an Everyday
Superhero award from TV news channel CNN.

Earlier this year he was given the Queen's Gallantry Medal, one of the highest
British civilian honours for bravery.

But the have-a-go hero's highlight was getting to train with his beloved Rangers
Football Club.

He said: ``Training with Rangers was something else. I've been to America and
won awards in America, but that was something else, it was brilliant, amazing.''

Mr Smeaton, who hopes to settle with his girlfriend in the USA, added: ``I don't
class myself as a hero, I don't see myself as that. I am just an ordinary guy.''

Gordon Dewar, the airport's managing director, looked back on the attack and the
damage that was left in its wake.

He said: ``It was an extremely busy day where we had to try and get everybody as
safe as possible, evacuate the building, and make sure we protected the building
itself.

``There was an awful lot of physical damage we had to repair.

``We had to replace the doors entirely and there was a lot of damage to the
front of the building and quite a lot of internal damage in terms of smoke
damage and having to rewire and relight.

``We still don't have full use of the forecourt back and there will be a project
that starts in the next few weeks which will make permanent the protection we
have that its there in the form of temporary barriers at the moment.''

A spokesman at Glasgow Airport confirmed no special events were being held at
the airport today or tomorrow to mark the anniversary.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              June 29, 2008 Sunday
                                 Scots Edition

I LOOKED HATE IN THE EYE ..BUT I'D DO IT ALL AGAIN;
ONE YEAR ON..FROM THE GLASGOW AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK HAVE-A-GO-HERO ALEX RELIVES
THE HORROR

BYLINE: BY STEVE SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 706 words


A TAXI driver who was one of the unsung heroes of the Glasgow airport terror
attack says he would do it again if he had to.

Alex McIlveen was one of several have-a-go-heroes who thwarted the bomb attack
on June 30 last year.

Brave Alex has now revealed he's still haunted by the day a 4x4 jeep packed with
explosives was crashed into the terminal building.

But, despite the nightmares, he still travels to the airport every day to drop
off passengers... who have no idea about the vital role he played that
terrifying day.

Alex, 45, who tore a tendon kicking burning bomber Kafeel Ahmed, said: "Working
at the airport is when I think about that day the most - you can't help but
wonder what could have happened, and how lucky we all were not to have been
killed."

He added: "The neighbours still talk about it and it's good to be recognised,
but it hasn't changed my life.

I would do it again if I had to.

"But it's not something you will ever forget - see that guy melt away before me
and the hatred in his eyes as he just wanted to fight will never go away.

"Because of my job I'm at the airport all the time so that probably helped me
get over the attack. You just have to get on with life, but it's certainly
something that I think about a lot." Alex, of Drumchapel, By STEVE SMITH
Glasgow, was dropping off a fare at the airport when he watched in horror as a
green Jeep Cherokee ploughed into the terminal, where thousands of Scots were
checking in for their summer holidays.

In the terrifying minutes which followed, Alex joined holidaymakers, airport
workers and police as they wrestled with the burning terrorists who were still
snarling insults.

Kafeel Ahmed died of 90 per cent burns in Glasgow Royal Infirmary four weeks
later. Paisley-based doctor Bilal Abdullah, 28, appeared at the Old Bailey,
London, last week accused of conspiracy to murder and cause an explosion. He
denies the charges.

Recalling the moment he stared terrorist Ahmed in face, Alex said: "The driver
came out and I could see his skin melting away through to his flesh. You don't
forget an image like that. I stared him in the eyes and there was nothing there
- he was just ranting stuff about Allah. He was a total headcase.

I didn't want to help him - if I'd had a gun I would have shot him. He didn't
even flinch as we kicked and punched him - he didn't even notice he was on fire.

"I've been told that he was so pumped up on morphine that he was only two per
cent from an overdose - he was like a machine."

Stephen Clarkson, 41, was another passer-by who stepped in to help police arrest
crazed Ahmed yards from the burning Jeep.

He was praised for his heroics that day too. But his biggest test came six
months after the attack when he was struck down with a potentially-fatal brain
haemorrhage and faced months of treatment.

Last night he revealed he has only now been given the all-clear to Alex after
attack Taxi driver Alex tackled burning terrorist The explosives-packed 4x4
burns fiercely after it was smashed into the busy Glasgow airport building
return to work as a construction site groundsman.

Stephen, of Pennilee, Glasgow, said: "It has been a pretty awful year, but to be
honest suffering the brain haemorrhage was far more scary than the airport. I am
proud of what I did that day and it's always something that you think about -
you can't really forget getting caught up in an attack like that.

"I'm just glad I came through everything that's happened over the last year, and
I'm now looking to getting back to work and restarting my life."

After the attack, both Alex and Stephen were praised for helping police arrest
the suspects.

But, unlike airport baggage handler John Smeaton, both were snubbed for a
Queen's Gallantry Medal.

"Smeato" became a worldwide celebrity figure for his part in tackling the men.
His cult status has infuriated the other Glasgow airport heroes who earlier this
year questioned his role in tackling the suspects.

Alex said: "He's made a lot of money out of what happened. He knows what
happened and we all know - I'll leave it at that. John doesn't talk to me now
because I questioned his involvement.

"I just don't think it's right that only one person gets the recognition by the
Prime Minister and the top bravery award."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Taxi driver Alex tackled burning terrorist; The explosives-packed 4x4
burns fiercely after it was smashed into the busy Glasgow airport building; John
Smeaton; Alex after attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              June 29, 2008 Sunday
                                 Scots Edition

'WE HAVE LEARNED A HARSH LESSON';
ONE YEAR ON..FROM THE GLASGOW AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 287 words


TERRORISM expert David Capitanchik said the events at Glasgow Airport were a
harsh reminder to Scots that they are not immune to terror attacks.

Mr Capitanchik, based at Aberdeen University, said the attack had made Scots
more aware.

He said: "At the time of Glasgow, there were a great number of counterterrorism
operations on the go, so the police and security services in Scotland will have
been aware we were a potential target.

"But for everyday Scots it was too easy to think we were immune to terrorist
attacks.

"There was certainly a public feeling that because we are so far away from
London, we were off the radar.

"But the airport attack changed that - I think that now people are far more
aware of what is going on around them and will report anything suspicious to the
police.

"It has probably helped the police because they would rather have a thousand
false alarms than one bomb going off.

"What was also very interesting about Glasgow is that a doctor has also
allegedly been involved.

"I am quite certain that in light of last year's attack anyone applying for jobs
in sensitive areas - such as the oil industry - from the Middle East especially
will be put under far greater scrutiny as to political views and security
background.

"Of course the Glasgow incident could have been much worse - if people had
wandered into the concourse with bombs hidden under their clothes the outcome
would have been an absolute disaster.

"Throughout the IRA bombing campaign Scotland got a bit too relaxed. Last June
was certainly a harsh lesson learned."

The Glasgow Airport terror attack came a day after police foiled a potential
double car bombing in Central London, having discovered explosives in vehicles
near Piccadilly Circus.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Expert... Capitanchik

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 29, 2008 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Calm after the storm;
Last year's terror attack is just a memory as families pack airport en route to
the sun

BYLINE: By Paula Murray

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 376  words


IT was business as usual at Glasgow Airport yesterday as throngs of excited
families prepared to jet off for the first day of the school holidays.

The tranquil scene was in sharp contrast to the blind panic on the same day last
year when a burning Jeep laden with gas cylinders slammed into the crowded
terminal building.

But yesterday passed peacefully, and at 3.15pm, the exact time of impact, the
only matter appearing to trouble holidaymakers was making their flights on time.

And as Scotland prepared to mark the first anniversary of the terror attacks
tomorrow, the country's anti-terrorism czar called for parents, communities and
the authorities to work together to prevent vulnerable young people from
becoming extremists.

Allan Burnett, counter terrorism co-ordinator and Assistant Chief Constable of
Fife Constabulary, said: "One of the things we are trying is early intervention,
which we would use in other areas of behaviour to put a stop to it.

"I have no doubt that the answer to some of this will resemble what we do with
other addictions or perversions. There may be a larger religious input to it,
but religion often plays a part in helping with other addictions.

"It is all about getting them back onto a proper path. It might be about coming
face to face with a victim with something like restorative justice.

"Perhaps it would involve psychiatric help, an alternative faith message, or
just getting mum and dad to talk to them and ban them from using the computer."
He also called for parents, authorities and the wider community to work together
and trust each other in dealing with radical elements in society, admitting
prison was not always the right answer.

More attacks on the airport are also being prevented by a massive GBP 4million
security upgrade and refurbishment.

Since the atrocity, private cars and vans have been banned from getting close to
the terminal building, while temporary barriers introduced in the immediate
aftermath of the attack will be replaced by 300 steel bollards along the inner
forecourt.

The pick-up and drop-off point has been moved inside the multi-storey car park
in front of the terminal building, while a new bomb-proof, high tech security
zone called Skyhub, costing GBP 31million, will open in October.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ONE YEAR APART: A burning Jeep causes panic at the airport, but now
it's back to normal, right
INTERVENTION: Alan Burnett

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             June 30, 2008, Monday
                                 Mersey Edition

We need a fair deal for terror attack victims;
EXCLUSIVE Mersey casualty of London bombings leads drive for improved
compensation

BYLINE: ROB MERRICK Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 892 words


A WIRRAL man who lost both legs in the July 7 London bombings is leading a
radical campaign to secure adequate compensation for all the "forgotten" victims
of terrorism.

Andy Brown, a facilities planner at Liverpool John Lennon Airport, will meet
Justice Secretary Jack Straw to press for a 5p-per-week levy on all taxpayers to
create an annual pounds 130m redress fund.

Father-of-three Andy, and his wife, Jan, believe such a fund would ensure future
survivors of terrorist attacks do not suffer their painful - and, so far,
unsuccessful - fight for full compensation.

The Browns asked for pounds 1.7m to reflect loss of earnings, the cost of
long-term care and of buying a new home adapted for a wheelchair user - but
compensation is capped at just pounds 500,000.

As a result, they still live in the same Victorian home in Oxton, where Andy
sleeps in the dining room because he is unable to get upstairs.

Now, in a meeting early next month, they will urge Mr Straw to look again at
their case and to explore the 5p-a-week levy, an idea devised with the help of
their Labour MP, Birkenhead's Frank Field.

Meanwhile, Jan received a personal telephone call from Gordon Brown, after she
wrote to the Prime Minister to praise his controversial Bill to detain terror
suspects for 42 days without charge.

In her first interview about the 2005 tragedy, Jan, aged 51, said: "We are
having this meeting for everybody who is a victim of a terrorist attack - not
just us.

"Everyone seems to have forgotten about the victims of the bombings and about
terrorism, which is wrong

"The injuries someone suffers when they are blown apart on a train or bus - by
someone trying to kill as many people as possible - are totally different to
having a car accident.

"Hopefully there will not be any more terrorist bombings, but I fear there
probably will be - so there needs to be a much better compensation scheme in
place."

Andy, now 52, was in London for a business conference - to discuss better
airport access for the disabled - when his lower legs were blown off by the bomb
blast at Liverpool Street Station.

He spent two months at the Royal London Hospital, before returning to Wirral
and, despite the need for constant further treatment, to his job at JLA.

Andy, described by his wife as a "very private man", declined to be interviewed,
but Jan said she felt so strongly about the issue of proper compensation that
she wanted to tell their full story.

She added: "The compensation we have received is simply not enough for the
severity of the injuries that Andy received.

"Andy really needs to be living in a purpose-built bungalow, where he can move
around, but that is very expensive to buy and something we simply can't do with
the compensation we have received.

"I had to give up work to be my husband's carer, which means I am on a pittance.
I had only just finished my degree and planned to become an art teacher if this
had not happened.

"Also there is the issue of what happens in 10 years' time. At the moment, I can
lift and move a wheelchair, but I won't always be able to do that and long-term
care is very expensive."

In his November award from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority (CICA),
Andy received pounds 111,635 for his injuries, the full amount he had claimed.

But the compensation fell woefully short for his care needs and for both his,
and Jan's, loss of earnings and pension. The scheme rules out any payment for
purpose-built accommodation, estimated to cost pounds 630,000.

The Browns have been able to put in a bathroom downstairs, but Jan added: "Andy
is still living in the dining room - three years on - because he cannot get up
the stairs.

"He is working full-time, but he still finds it very difficult. No-one can know
just how difficult it is to be disabled until they are in that situation.

"It is a problem just fitting through doorways. And, some days, Andy's skin
breaks down and he can't wear his prosthetic limbs.

"Just when you think you are over the worst of it, something else happens. We
are constantly back and forth to the limb centre at Clatterbridge hospital."

In one sense, the Browns are fortunate to have their compensation, because it
was revealed earlier this month that 70 survivors of the July 7 atrocities have
yet to receive their full payouts - despite ministerial promises to speed them
up.

There is anger that most awards are very small - some are as low as pounds 1,000
- when the victims of the September 11 terror attacks in America received
millions.

Mr Field has submitted a six page explanation of why the 5p-aweek levy on all
employers and workers is badly needed.

The MP said: "The events of 7/7 blew Britain into a horrendous new world, where
British terrorists were prepared to kill themselves and large numbers of
innocent bystanders.

"No financial compensation, however generous, can restore the lives of the
survivors to the position they were seconds before those deadly bombs exploded.

"What a civilised nation can do, however, is to introduce a compensation scheme
to enable a victim to restore as much of his or her quality of life as is
possible."

Days before the meeting with Mr Straw, Andy will - on July 7 - drive his adapted
car to London to meet with other survivors, as he has done on the previous two
anniversaries.

Jan explained: "On that day, he likes to meet with other people affected as he
was."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Andy Brown; Andy Brown - lost both his legs in the London bombings on
July 7, 2005; Jan Brown - says the compensation they have received is not
sufficient for the severity of her husband's injuries; One of the bomb-damaged
Circle Line subway trains, in London

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                              June 30, 2008 Monday
                     London and all shared stories Edition

Terror attack hero tells of 'crazy' year

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 168 words


A BAGGAGE handler who helped thwart a terror attack on Glasgow airport has
spoken of his 'crazy' year, as the incident's first anniversary passes today.

John Smeaton, 32, was hailed a hero after helping police tackle a man in a
blazing jeep which had been driven into the airport terminal.

Shortly after the incident, he gave a TV interview, broadcast around the world,
in which he warned: 'This is Glasgow, you know - we'll set about you.'
Reflecting on the attack, he said: 'At the exact moment in time you were not
frightened, but minutes afterwards you think, "That was quite scary".

'It is just crazy that my life has gone from one extreme to another.' Mr Smeaton
has been awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal, one of the highest British
civilian honours for bravery.

He has met prime minister Gordon Brown several times and has been feted at the
Labour Party conference.

Mr Smeaton, who hopes to settle with his girlfriend in America, added: 'I don't
class myself as a hero. I really am just an ordinary guy.'

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                              June 30, 2008 Monday
                     London and all shared stories Edition

Terror attack hero tells of 'crazy' year

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 168 words


A BAGGAGE handler who helped thwart a terror attack on Glasgow airport has
spoken of his 'crazy' year, as the incident's first anniversary passes today.

John Smeaton, 32, was hailed a hero after helping police tackle a man in a
blazing jeep which had been driven into the airport terminal.

Shortly after the incident, he gave a TV interview, broadcast around the world,
in which he warned: 'This is Glasgow, you know - we'll set about you.'
Reflecting on the attack, he said: 'At the exact moment in time you were not
frightened, but minutes afterwards you think, "That was quite scary".

'It is just crazy that my life has gone from one extreme to another.' Mr Smeaton
has been awarded the Queen's Gallantry Medal, one of the highest British
civilian honours for bravery.

He has met prime minister Gordon Brown several times and has been feted at the
Labour Party conference.

Mr Smeaton, who hopes to settle with his girlfriend in America, added: 'I don't
class myself as a hero. I really am just an ordinary guy.'

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                        June 30, 2008 Monday 2:50 AM BST

BUSINESS AS USUAL ON ANNIVERSARY OF TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Hilary Duncanson, Scottish Press Association

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 295 words


Glasgow Airport bosses today insisted it would be business as usual on the first
anniversary of the terror attack which brought chaos to thousands of
holidaymakers.

Managing director Gordon Dewar said that while the events of June 30 2007 would
never be forgotten, the anniversary would be ``just another working day'' for
the airport's 5,000 staff.

He also praised the ``tremendous courage'' shown by workers, passengers and
members of the emergency services who were caught up in last year's events and
said it was thanks to their support that the airport was able to reopen less
than 24 hours after the attack.

``This is a matter of real pride for the staff involved,'' he said.

``However, one year on, there is no triumphalism, just a quiet determination to
get on with the job and deliver for our passengers.

``We have worked hard over the past year to repair, and refurbish, the terminal
building and there are now few visible signs of last year's attack.

``I am extremely proud of the team effort that has brought us to this point.

``The response from everyone involved in the reconstruction effort has been
superb.''

He said the airport has now been completely transformed, with £4m being spent in
the past 12 months on upgrading the terminal and forecourt, including repairs to
the areas damaged by smoke and water.

Door two - the point of impact - has been completely rebuilt.

The final phase of the investment will see 300 steel bollards being installed
along the inner forecourt, replacing the temporary barriers introduced following
the attack.

He said: ``Glasgow Airport has incurred substantial capital costs as a result of
the attack on the terminal.

``Despite this, we have worked hard to deliver improved facilities, at no cost
to our passengers, or to the taxpayer.''

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                              June 30, 2008 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

It was a year ago today..and terror was on our doorstep...;
 THE PAISLEY DAILY EXPRESS LOOKS BACK AT THE OUTRAGE, FEAR AND LEGACY OF LAST
YEAR'S TERRORIST ATTACK ON GLASGOW AIRPORT It was a year ago today..and terror
was on our doorstep...

BYLINE: LYNN JOLLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 966 words


TERROR came to Paisley's doorstep exactly a year ago today.

And, 12 months on, the painful memories of that attack on Glasgow Airport remain
fresh in the minds of those caught up in the carnage.

Hero firemen, police, airport staff and ordinary holidaymakers were among those
who ignored the risk to their own safety in order to prevent innocent lives
being lost after a blazing Jeep was driven into the main terminal building.

The shocking events that took place at 3.15pm on Saturday, June 30 - and the
incredible twists and turns that followed as police investigated the airport
attack - rocked Paisley to its very foundations.

For most people in the town, terrorism had been a nightmare experienced only by
others on TV screens - but, that day, it was way too close to home for comfort.

The terrifying events brought the message home to locals that, in this dangerous
world we now all share, Paisley has become a target.

Firefighters from Paisley and Renfrew had arrived at the blazing terminal within
minutes of 999 calls coming in from terrified airport staff and holidaymakers.

Initially, the emergency services thought they were dealing with a
run-of-the-mill car accident but it quickly became apparent this was something
more sinister.

Off-duty police officer John Mullen was in the airport bar above the check-in
area with his wife Lorna, 36, and kids Sorcha, eight, and Eve, five, when the
attack took place.

They had been looking forward to a family holiday in Palma and were chilling out
ahead of their flight when all hell broke loose.

John, from Johnstone, said they could all see the Jeep Cherokee and a man
engulfed by flames below them as they dashed across the walkway to safety.

A year on, he told the Paisley Daily Express: "That was to be the children's
first holiday abroad and they were really excited about it but I guess you could
say that things didn't quite go according to plan.

"The kids could see the car and the guy on fire as we went over the walkway. It
was really upsetting for them.

"We headed outside to the Holiday Inn and had a coffee there. The kids were
crying. They were terrified."

Confused John said that, as it was the start of the school holidays, there were
lots of families around - and everyone was confused and upset.

"I heard a thump, thump, sound initially and thought it was suitcases down at
check-in," recalled 35-year-old John. "Then the alarm went off and we were told
to evacuate. That was when I heard screaming and people started running.

"I grabbed my wife and kids and went across the walkway. I decided not to head
downstairs because the stairs were a total bottleneck.

"When we got to the hotel, I tried to keep the kids' backs to the TV because Sky
News were covering the incident.

"I've seen all sorts of things in my days as a policeman, so seeing the man on
fire didn't shock me, but Lorna was upset because the kids were so scared.

"Even now, Sorcha won't go near the airport but Eve is OK about it.

"I just tell Sorcha that a silly man took a wrong turn and crashed his car into
the airport."

The Mullen family were able to fly to Spain from Prestwick Airport the following
night and were determined to enjoy their sunshine holiday - despite their
terrifying ordeal.

They were among thousands of people caught up in the drama of June 30 last year.

Also at the airport that day as they waited to board a holiday flight to Cyprus
were Johnstone couple Ian and Eileen Pennie.

They would have been just yards from the Jeep when it smashed into the terminal
doors if it hadn't been for a birthday present Eileen had bought for her
husband.

Under normal circumstances, the couple would have been at the check-in desks at
3.15pm - the exact time when the burning vehicle ploughed into the terminal
building.

But they escaped the worst of the carnage as Eileen had bought Ian tickets for
the airport's executive lounge as a birthday gift, meaning they had checked in
earlier than usual.

A year later, the dreadful events of that day are still clear in Eileen's mind.

She said: "The memories are still fresh. The black cloud of smoke was the most
dramatic thing for us.

"It was a giant cloud that came rolling towards us and, at first, I thought it
was a fire but I overheard staff saying there had been an attack on the airport.

"It was all very frightening and nobody could believe it. It was a horrible day
- very cold and wet - and, when we got outside the terminal building, we stood
in a shelter.

"Someone there said they thought a man had suffered a heart attack at the wheel
of his car and ended up crashing into the terminal. When I said I'd heard it was
a terror attack, nobody believed me."

Eileen describes the experience as "very surreal" and is only too aware that she
had a lucky escape.

But she said: "It hasn't put me off flying. You can't live your life like that.
You just have to get on with it."

The airport attack wasn't the end of the drama for Paisley people.

In the days that followed, there were a number of bomb scares that left folk in
the town nervous and on edge.

Bomb disposal squads raced to Paisley's Royal Alexandra Hospital, as well as the
Lagoon leisure centre, but the alerts turned out to be false alarms.

Kafeel Ahmed, 27, who was one of the men in the Jeep that crashed into the
airport, died of severe burns in hospital several weeks after being injured in
the attack.

Earlier this month, two NHS doctors pleaded not guilty in court to plotting to
explode car bombs in London and at Glasgow Airport.

Iraqi Bilal Abdullah, 28, who worked at the RAH, and Mohammed Asha, 27, appeared
at the Old Bailey by video link.

They are accused of conspiracy to murder and to cause explosions between January
1, 2006, and July 1, last year.

The two men deny the charges.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ORDEAL: John Mullen was at the airport with his wife Lorna and
daughter Sorcha
 ALERT: Cops at scene
 STAY SAFE: Car check
 FLASHBACK: From left - seconds after the attack: crowds of delayed travellers
 and firemen at the cordoned-off terminal
 FRIGHTENING DAY: Traveller Eileen Pennie

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                              June 30, 2008 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

We must be so vigilant warns MP;
 THE PAISLEY DAILY EXPRESS LOOKS BACK AT THE OUTRAGE, FEAR AND LEGACY OF LAST
YEAR'S TERRORIST ATTACK ON GLASGOW AIRPORT We must be so vigilant warns MP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 294 words


CONCERNED politician Jim Sheridan last night warned the people of Paisley they
must still be "on their toes" when it comes to security issues.

The MP for Paisley and Renfrewshire North has tabled a Parliamentary motion at
the House of Commons to honour everyone who responded so courageously to the
airport attack on June 30 last year.

So far, more than 50 MPs from various political parties have signed Mr
Sheridan's Early Day Motion to state that 'This House honours the staff,
passengers and emerg ency service personnel who responded to the attack on
Glasgow Airport on June 30, 2007, with bravery and compassion; welcomes the
significant capital investment and customer service improvements made by BAA
since the attack and congratulates the hard working security and customer
service staff at all UK airports for their commitment and professionalism."

Mr Sheridan told the Paisley Daily Express it is vital for ordinary people to
recognise the important role safety and security staff play at airports.

He said: "I want to remind people that, unfortunately, there are people out
there who want to destroy our way of life and that these incidents can happen
anywhere in the UK.

"We need to keep on our toes in terms of security.

"I also want to recognise the airport staff who live with this threat every day.
Most of us only go through the airport on an occasional basis - the people who
work at the airport have to face this threat every day they go to work.

"I want to give thanks to them for looking after our safety and security and the
professional way they do it.

"There were a lot of people involved in keeping us safe that day - ordinary
citizens and professionals - so I submitted the Parliamentary motion to
recognise that and thank them."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  WARNING: MP Jim Sheridan
 INFERNO: This image of the jeep was seen all over the world
 HORROR: A couple watch the drama unfold

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                              June 30, 2008 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

Glasgow Airport 'is fighting back';
 THE PAISLEY DAILY EXPRESS LOOKS BACK AT THE OUTRAGE, FEAR AND LEGACY OF LAST
YEAR'S TERRORIST ATTACK ON GLASGOW AIRPORT Glasgow Airport 'is fighting back'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 505 words


BOSSES at Glasgow Airport have compared their recovery from the June 30 attack
with the mythical phoenix rising from the flames.

One year on, the airport has been given a pounds 4million upgrade, the pounds
31million Skyhub development is bang on schedule and it is business as usual for
the 5,000 workers there.

Managing director Gordon Dewar said that, although thousands of innocent
holidaymakers had to suffer chaos, the airport has been completely transfor med.

Mr Dewar thanked staff for their efforts as he said: "Today marks the first
anniversary of the terror attack but, for the 5,000 staff who work here, it is
just another working day.

"While we will never forget the events of June 30, 2007, or the tremendous
courage of our staff, passengers and emergency services, it is thanks to their
support that we were able to re-open the airport less than 24 hours after the
attack.

"This is a matter of real pride for the staff involved.

However, one year on, there is no triumphalism - just a quiet determination to
get on with the job and deliver for our passengers.

"Glasgow Airport has incurred substantial capital costs as a result of the
attack on the terminal. Despite this, we have worked hard to deliver improved
facilities at no cost to our passengers or to the taxpayer."

He believes that, since June 30 last year, the airport has "emerged from the
flames" thanks to the multi-million pound upgrade of the terminal and forecourt,
including repairs to the external structure and interior areas damaged by smoke
and water.

The point of impact during the attack - Door 2 - has been completely rebuilt.

New access arrangements have also been kick-started, with people no longer able
to pick up and drop off friends and family directly in front of the main ter
minal.

Instead, drivers can set down and collect passengers for free opposite the
terminal building at car park 2.

Over 150 parking spaces were removed to make way for the new drop-off and
pick-up area and St Andrew's Drive - the airport's secondary drop-off point -
has also been upgraded.

The final phase of the forecourt investment will see 300 steel bollards
installed along the inner forecourt, replacing the temporary barriers introduced
following the attack.

The first phase of the Skyhub terminal extension - a new two-storey domestic
arrivals hall with purpose-built security - will open on October 21.

Mr Dewar added: "We have worked hard over the past year to repair and refurbish
the terminal building and there are now few visible signs of last year's attack
.

"We are also grateful to our passengers for the patience they have shown over
the past year as we carried out these repairs. The good news is that the work is
almost complete.

"This week is one of the busiest of the year at Glasgow Airport, with thousands
of families flying out for their summer holidays and thousands more arriving in
Scotland from overseas.

"We wish them all a warm welcome and enjoyable trip and thank them for
supporting their local airport."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  GLASGOW AIRPORT BOSS: Gordon Dewar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              July 1, 2008 Tuesday

Farewell flight leads to terror attack fears

BYLINE: Graeme Baker

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 232 words


OFFICE workers feared they were under attack by terrorists yesterday as a
passenger aircraft swooped low over Sydney city centre followed by a fighter
jet.

Offices emptied as the aircraft, apparently losing altitude and with smoke
billowing from its fuselage, flew across the city's harbour area.

The flight was a "farewell'' for one of the Royal Australian Air Force's ageing
aircraft. Unfortunately, the military had failed to inform the

public.

The Boeing 707 made a circuit of the central business district and the harbour,
escorted by a Hawk 127 fighter.

Steven Gunther said he had run out of his office, fearing an attack. "I wasn't
the only one. There were some scared and bewildered people on the streets,'' he
said.

Phillipa Kelly, who works near the harbour, said the noise of the planes stopped
work at her office.

"It came very close to the building and we all stopped and said: 'Oh my God!
What was that noise?'

"There's this big passenger plane that has come very close to our building, and
it has a fighter plane following it.''

Raveena Carroll-Kenney, a spokesman for the government, said office workers had
no cause for alarm.

But Mr Gunther said: "To think that seeing a Boeing 707 being tailed by a
fighter jet flying at low altitude ... wasn't going to cause concern is
deplorable.

"In this age of terrorism the defence force should have known better. I have
never felt quite so scared.''

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 2, 2008 Wednesday

Apparent "terrorist attack" injures dozens - Israel radio

LENGTH: 53 words


The 0900 news begins with a live relay from Yafo Street in Jerusalem, saying
that a tractor driven by an Arab overturned and drove over a bus and a number of
cars in what appears to be a terrorist attack. Correspondents are reporting
"dozens of casualties."

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 0900 gmt 2 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             July 2, 2008 Wednesday

Bulldozer in Jerusalem terror attack

BYLINE: ED HARRIS

SECTION: B; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 304 words


A PALESTINIAN man drove a bulldozer into buses and cars in a Jerusalem street
today, killing three people and injuring at least 40 more, before he was shot
dead by a soldier who climbed onto the vehicle.

The rampage caused panic in the city centre as the man used the bulldozer's
shovel to overturn one crowded bus and hit another, ripping it open down one
side.

Two cars were flattened and at least three other vehicles were damaged,
including a van which had its entire front crushed. Hundreds of people fled as
medics treated the wounded.

Eyal Lang Ben-Hur, 16, was on one of the buses in Jaffa Road when the driver
yelled: "Get out of the vehicle. Everyone out." Yosef Spielman said the
bulldozer picked up a car "like a toy", adding: "I was shocked. I saw a guy
going crazy. All the people were running, they had no chance." Student Yaakov
Ashkenazi, 18, said: "I saw the bulldozer smash the car with its shovel.

He smashed the guy sitting in the driver's seat." The carnage ended only when an
offduty soldier killed the man by shooting him in the head several times at
pointblank range, leaving him slumped over the steering wheel.

In a statement, police said a "terrorist" had carried out the attack but gave no
further details.

It was the first Arab attack in Jewish west Jerusalem since a gunman killed
eight students in a religious school in March.

The city's mayor, Uri Lupolianski, said his daughter was on one of the buses
rammed by the attacker but was not injured.

He said: "To our regret the attackers do not cease coming up with new ways to
strike at the heart of the Jewish people here in Jerusalem." The attack occurred
in an area where Jerusalem is building a new railway. The project has turned
many parts of the city into a construction zone. Palestinian workers are a
familiar sight on highway projects in Israel..

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mayhem: the bulldozer is driven along Jerusalem's Jaffa Road, leaving
an overturned bus in its wake. The driver was shot dead by a soldier

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             July 2, 2008 Wednesday

Imports threat to food safety;
British food supplies could be at risk in the event of a terrorist attack
because the country has become too reliant on foreign imports, it was claimed
last night.

BYLINE: Matt Chorley London Editor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 805 words


Former agriculture minister Angela Browning accused the Government of allowing
the proportion of homegrown food to tumble in the last decade, leaving the UK
more exposed to threats at home and overseas.

Terrorists could cause widespread disruption and potentially large numbers of
fatalities by polluting water supplies, destroying crops, poisoning foodstuffs
or cutting off the supply of imports, she said.

Mrs Browning, the Tory MP for Tiverton and Honiton, called for more creative
planning to ensure the nation has enough to eat, including a major drive to
encourage gardeners to feed themselves from allotments.

"We are an island nation and if we had a form of horrendous disaster we would
probably be dependent on in-coming food and that is a dangerous position to be
in," she said.

Mrs Browning, a minister in the Major government of  1994-1997, warned against
Britain becoming "dependent on other countries for certain staple crops" to the
same extent as the control Russia now wields over the nation's gas supply.

She added: "On a very small scale, I would like to see more people growing  food
on allotments. It's what my generation used to do as the norm."

The Tories point to figures which show of the food which could be grown in
Britain, the amount produced here has fallen from 81.8 per cent in 1997 to only
73.9 per cent last year. Shadow farming minister Jim Paice said it was
"laughable the Government claims we are somehow doing OK because we are doing
better than we were in the 1950s".

And the National Farmers' Union has said the industry has an "economic duty to
the citizens of Britain to optimise our production of food and bio-energy, so as
to secure their supplies". Such efforts could also help to keep soaring prices
in check, it added.

However, ministers insist the nation's food supply chain is resilient to the
threat of terrorist attacks, precisely because of the varied sources we buy
from.

The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said that if a particular
link in the chain were  disrupted, other suppliers could step in and ensure
there was food on the table.

"The terrorist threat to the UK, including the threat to the food chain, is
monitored very closely by the Government and we and the industry remain
vigilant," a source told the WMN.

Ministers were forced to step in and give the public reassurance after it
emerged in a Commons debate this week that  former Environment Secretary
Margaret Beckett rejected calls from her own officials to consider how Britain
could feed itself in the wake of the 2001 terrorist attacks in New York. Civil
servants were told by Mrs Beckett that Britain's ability to provide enough food
for itself was not a "driving consideration".

Mrs Browning said this was "shocking", adding: "We know that areas of the
country could potentially be contaminated if they use some chemical pollutant
either in the drinking water supply or in the air. It is outrageous that was not
considered important after 9/11."

The attitude of ministers to the potential impact of a terror attack emerged in
a Commons debate on food security.

The Government admits although Britain has roughly the same levels of milk and
cereal production as 30 years ago, self-sufficiency in vegetables has fallen by
three-quarters to less than two thirds while imports have risen sharply.

But Environment Secretary Hilary Benn insisted: "Domestic production is
necessary for food security but it is not on its own sufficient. We export as
well as import food, and there are of course some things that we cannot possibly
grow ourselves that we need to buy."

However, Mr Benn appeared baffled by the revelation that his predecessor had not
considered the threat of terrorism to food supplies to be sufficiently serious.

Sir Brian Bender, the former top civil servant at Defra, told the Public
Accounts Committee the terror attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon
in September 2001 came as the finishing touches were put to the UK's Sustainable
Farming and Food Strategy.

He said the issue of Britain being self-sufficient in its food supply was "put
specifically to our ministers" because the attacks made it a "germane question".

"The direct answer to the question put to ministers 'should this be a
consideration?' in the run-up to publication of that document was 'no'," he
said.

However, particularly under Mr Benn's watch in the last 12 months, more focus
has been put on ensuring people have enough to eat and drink, even if terrorists
were to strike.

The Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure advises people to
"review the security of your food and drink supply chains" in the event of an
attack. The department heads  the Food Chain Emergency Liaison Group (FCELG)
which meets every six months to discuss issues of concern to the food industry
in the event of an attack.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                             July 3, 2008 Thursday

Terrorist Is Attacked In Fighting At North Jail

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 336 words


FOUR prison officers were injured in violence between inmates and Muslim
prisoners at a high-security jail. Fighting broke out at HMP Frankland in Durham
after a cell was set alight and three prisoners attacked another inmate.

It is believed the cell was that of convicted al-Qaida terrorist Kamel Bourgass,
who is serving life for the murder of Special Branch detective Stephen Oake, 40.
The 34-year-old Algerian escaped injury in the blaze.

A British prisoner was slashed across the face with a home-made knife in
retaliation, it was reported.

Prison officers attempted to break up the brawl and several were injured as
fighting inmates turned on them. One suffered a broken arm.

The officers were praised for their bravery in stopping the brawl escalating.

A Prison Service spokeswoman confirmed there had been a cell fire and fighting
between prisoners at the jail. She said the fight had not been a riot.

She said: "We can confirm that an incident took place at 12pm on June 27 in
Frankland Prison.

"A fire was discovered in a cell. The incident was dealt with quickly, with no
injuries to staff or prisoners. We can confirm an incident took place in
Frankland prison at 5pm on Friday, June 27, when three prisoners assaulted
another prisoner.

"Due to staff's swift and courageous response, the incident was quickly
resolved. Four members of staff and two prisoners required hospital treatment.

"The matter has been referred to the police for investigation."

A Durham Police spokesman said: "Detectives from this force are investigating a
fracas among inmates at Frankland Prison, Durham, early last Friday evening.

"During the disturbance, one inmate was slashed across the face and another was
punched and kicked.

"A number of prison officers who intervened were injured, one suffering a broken
arm.

"Our inquiries into the incident are yet to be completed."

Prison Officers' Association spokesman Steve Cox said: "There is an ongoing
problem at Frankland borne out of terrorist prisoners being housed with other
prisoners."

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 4, 2008 Friday

Moroccan security services expect terror attacks - paper

LENGTH: 611 words


Text of report by Khaled Attaoui headlined: "Al-Qa'idah was preparing for a
bloody summer in Morocco. The search is still on for terrorists' leader Abu
Makhlouf, and terrorist preparations have reached the stage of pinpointing
targets", published by Moroccan privately-owned newspaper Assabah website on 4
July

Informed sources have revealed that the security services have been on a race
with time to arrest more than 20 accused, suspected of links to Al-Qa'idah and
of planning for terrorist operations in the summer.

The same sources say that preliminary investigations of a network members,
accused of recruiting and mobilizing Moroccan nationals to fight in Al-Qa'idah
ranks in Iraq and in Algeria have yielded grave information, including one to
the effect that Abu Makhlouf, who is the coordinator of the terrorist groups and
who is still on the run, has made arrangements with an Algerian terrorist to
resurrect terror cells in several towns.

The same sources describe Abu Makhlouf as the brain behind the recruiting of
terrorist elements. He travels between several Moroccan towns to recruit new
volunteers, and his movements have now covered towns which, until recently, were
out of reach to extremist organizations, such as El Hajeb and Taourirt, in
addition to other towns like Fes, Tetouan, Larayech and Oujda.

The same sources add that the setting up of the terrorist organization started
immediately after the return of some Moroccans from the fight on the side of
Al-Qa'idah in Iraq, that instructions had been given by leaders of the
international organization that the suicide bombers should return to their
respective countries of origin, and that international intelligence cooperation
has succeeded in getting the names of the returnees in question, who have been
given the task of setting up new cells to mobilize the already recruited
elements to fight in Iraq, in Algeria, in Morocco, in Turkey, in Syria and in
Lebanon.

The same sources point out that the members of the terrorist organization have
allocated roles to each of them, in a very meticulous way. One of them was
charged with recruiting those who wanted to fight in Algeria and others in Iraq.
It is estimated that he has been able to recruit about 33 persons.

The sources further say that the accused have travelled to several Moroccan
towns, following a plan not draw the attention of the security services and to
impede the latter's monitoring of their movements.

The same sources stress that the security services had been on the track of the
leaders of the organization for several months before the secret services
captured most of the members of the organization, while the search is still on
for the rest.

The same sources reveal also that the leaders of the terrorist cell were waiting
for the green light from the leaders of al-Qa'idah organization abroad to launch
bombing operations in Morocco, and that preparations for the attacks had reached
the stage of pinpointing targets. The terrorist leaders also received important
logistical means, including financial support.

The sources also say that the returnees from Iraq are considered as a corner
stone in the recently-set up cell because they have received training there, and
they have been trained also in Morocco, in preparation for terrorist operations
in the summer.

The same sources admit that the brain behind these moves, nicknamed Abu
Makhlouf, has made several trips to southern Morocco, and he has travelled also
to Mali and to Mauritania in order to coordinate action with the leaders of [the
Algeria-based] Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb [AQLIM].

Source: Assabah website, Casablanca, in Arabic 4 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 6, 2008 Sunday

Governor of Indonesia's Jakarta warns of possible terror attacks

LENGTH: 379 words


Text of report in English by influential Indonesian newspaper The Jakarta Post
English-language website on 5 July

[Unattributed report from the "Headlines" page: "Capital warned of possible
terrorist attacks"]

Jakarta Governor Fauzi Bowo has warned residents in the capital of possible
terrorist attacks following the arrests of 10 terror suspects in South Sumatra.

He also asked residents to help authorities by sharing information of any
suspicious activities in their neighbourhoods.

"All citizens should stay alert because the arrests made in Palembang (South
Sumatra's capital) were based on information from residents there. They must
strengthen their security through routine neighbourhood security system
activities," he said Friday at City Hall.

"Hotel security guards must watch over their work environment and residents
watch over their neighbours, while a landlord should know well who stays in his
or her property because bombs can be made in houses or in a hotel room."

Early discovery, he said, was the most effective form of prevention.

A senior police officer at the National Police on Thursday told Koran Tempo
newspaper that the Palembang suspects were planning to "attack places where
there are many foreigners".

Jakarta is home to many embassies and expatriates, and has fallen victim to
terrorist bombings targeting places frequented by foreigners.

Chief executive officer of upscale mall Senayan City in South Jakarta, Handaka
Santoso, said the mall management would increase the number of patrolling
officers to meet any terrorist threat.

"We'll check every mall visitor more carefully in addition to our regular
security checks," he told The Jakarta Post on Friday.

Public relations officer of Taman Anggrek Mall in West Jakarta, Anastasia
Damastuti, said the mall management was always alert to threats. "This is not
the first time we've heard of the possibility of bombings."

Hotel Mulia communications manager Adeza Hamzah said the hotel in Senayan,
Central Jakarta, would stick to the standards of maximum security it always
applied.

Communications director of Shangri-La Hotel in Central Jakarta, Ratna Sjamsiar
Idris, refused to comment on her hotel's security pertaining to terrorism
prevention.

Source: The Jakarta Post website, Jakarta, in English 5 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  July 6, 2008

Spy war with Russia 'raises risk of terrorist attack'

BYLINE: SEAN RAYMENT and ANDREW ALDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 238  words


BRITAIN FACES an increased risk of a terrorist attack because MI5 has to divert
resources to monitor Russian spies, security sources have warned.

Anger at growing espionage by some 30 agents in Britain is threatening to
overshadow the first meeting between Gordon Brown and Dmitry Medvedev, the
Russian President, at the G8 summit in Japan tomorrow.

MI5 regularly has to tie up significant numbers of its 3,600 staff to deal with
Russian spies at a time when it is trying to combat up to 200 suspected
terrorist groups possibly involving 2,000 Islamic extremists in Britain.

Whitehall sources said that Britain has raised the issue of Russian agents at
diplomatic levels, but the fears were dismissed.

"MI5's resources have been stretched to the limit for the last few years,'' a
senior official said. "There have been times when there was nothing left in the
locker, when all of our assets were being used on one operation. At the same
time, we have to contend with the very real threat being posed by the
Russians.''

Meanwhile, The Sunday Telegraph has learnt that Mr Brown will insist that the
killer of Alexander Litvinenko should face justice in a British court, according
to a letter from David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, to Mr Litvinenko's
widow, Marina.

Mr Litvinenko, 44, died in 2006 after being poisoned at a London hotel. Russia
has refused to extradite Andrei Lugovoi, a former KGB agent suspected of the
killing.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              July 7, 2008, Monday
                              City Centre Edition

Silent tears for victims;
TRIBUTE: London remembers bomb terror attacks

BYLINE: Gary Marks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 328 words


COMMUTERS and survivors stood shoulder to shoulder with the families of victims
today to mark the third anniversary of the London bombings.

Hundreds of people crowded into King's Cross station to remember the 52 innocent
people who were killed when four blasts ripped through London's public transport
network.

London mayor Boris Johnson joined Tessa Jowell, the Government minister for the
capital, and transport chiefs at the ceremony.

They laid flowers outside the station at 8.50am, the time when the first three
bombs went off.

The pavements around King's Cross, from where the four suicide bombers set off
on their terror campaign, were crammed with commuters as passers-by stopped to
pay their respects.

Relatives of victims and survivors also made personal pilgrimages to the sites
of the four blasts - Russell Square, Aldgate and Edgware Road Tube stations, and
Tavistock Square.

Heroes who helped in the aftermath of the Edgware Road bombing united with
relatives of victims to pay their respects.

Seven people were killed and 163 injured when Mohammad Sidique Khan detonated a
bomb in the second carriage of a westbound Circle line train at Edgware Road.

Survivor Jacqui Putnam, 57, said: "I return every year to lay flowers. It's very
important for me to be here.

"I was in the first carriage and the bomb went off in the second carriage. I
suffered concussion.

We were trapped for a while, I don't know how long but it felt like days.

When we evacuated the train, we had to go past the second carriage, past the
worst of the damage."

Tim Coulson, 53, was awarded a medal by the Royal Humane Society earlier this
year in recognition of his bravery on July 7.

He said: "My train stopped parallel to the attacked train. I broke a window to
get out of the train to get to the cries of human suffering.

"I was there for the end of a life of one passenger. It was important for me for
the family to know that he had not died alone."

A minute's silence was observed at the station.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: QUIET REFLECTION...flowers were laid at the sites of the blasts in
London which killed 52 people.; TRIBUTES...Boris Johnson and Tessa Jowell lay
flowers.; COMFORT... family and friends of the dead gathered to pay tribute.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              July 7, 2008, Monday
                                 Mersey Edition

London recalls 'numbing legacy' of 7/7 terror attacks;
Survivors and relatives gather to remember

BYLINE: SAM MARSDEN Daily Post Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 593 words


THREE years after four bombs ripped through London's public transport network,
killing 52 innocent people, survivors and relatives of victims will remember the
attacks tomorrow.

The third anniversary of the July 7, 2005, attacks will be marked with a low-key
ceremony at the railway station where the four suicide bombers set out on their
mission of terror.

London Mayor Boris Johnson will join Tessa Jowell, the Government minister for
the capital, and transport chiefs to lay flowers outside King's Cross station at
8.50am, the time when the first three bombs went off.

Many people will make personal pilgrimages to the sites of the four blasts -
Russell Square, Aldgate and Edgware Road Tube stations, and Tavistock Square.

There will also be a private meeting for survivors and families of victims who
want to share their memories and reflections.

Many of those caught up in the bombings did not want to talk about the
anniversary, saying they were trying to put what happened behind them.

Ra Babbra, 31, is using the occasion to premiere a film he has made about his
ex-girlfriend and best friend, business analyst Benedetta Ciaccia, 30, who was
killed in the Aldgate blast.

He hopes the 40-minute documentary - called 7/7: Life Without Benedetta - will
bring home to people what it meant to lose a loved one so violently.

Mr Babbra, from south London, said: "I wanted to make viewers realise these
aren't other people-this happened to people just like them.

"The fact that it didn't happen to them is more about luck than anything."

He admitted the first anniversary of the attacks was "extremely difficult" but
said it had got easier with time.

"This year, the actual anniversary doesn't mean the same to me personally," he
said.

"I want Benedetta's death not to become something that drags me down, but
something that brings the strength to make a difference and make a change in how
we are."

He will screen his film to a select group of the public tomorrow, after which he
hopes to sell it to film festivals to raise money for a charity in Ms Ciaccia's
name.

Suicide bombers Mohammad Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain,
18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, met at Luton station on the morning of the
attacks.

They took a train to King's Cross, then hugged and separated to carry out their
missions.

Within three minutes of 8.50am, Tanweer detonated his bomb at Liverpool Street,
Khan set his device off at Edgware Road, and Lindsay blew himself up between
King's Cross and Russell Square.

Hussain detonated his device onboard the Number 30 bus at Tavistock Square at
9.47am.

As well as killing themselves and 52 others, the bombers injured more than 700
people.

London returned to normal but the attacks left a legacy of physical and
psychological damage among those affected.

Concerns have also been raised about delays in paying compensation to victims of
the atrocities - which Mr Johnson has described as "unacceptable".

Three years on from the bombings, 73 out of a total of 647 claims are still
ongoing, and some of those injured have not received any money at all. Some
survivors have complained that the compensation system is overly bureaucratic.

Mr Johnson wrote to Ms Jowell calling on the Government to tackle the backlog
immediately

The Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority (CICA) said it had paid out nearly
pounds 7.5m to victims and relatives of those caught up in the bombings.

Some 89% of the claims have been fully resolved and 96% of those eligible have
received either a full or interim payment.

Concern over delays in payouts for victims

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The remains of the bus in Tavistock Square, after the terror attack on
July 7, 2005; Victims at Edgware Road

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 8, 2008 Tuesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Pakistan, Afghanistan

LENGTH: 123 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -08.07.2008 -Turkey condemned recent terrorist attacks in Pakistan
and Afghanistan which have killed at least 59 people and injured scores.

"Turkey strongly denounces these atrocious terror acts," the Turkish Foreign
Ministry said in a statement on Tuesday.

A suicide blast killed on Sunday 17 people, 13 of them police officers, at a
protest rally in Islamabad, Pakistan.

On Monday, a car bomb went off in the Afghan capital, Kabul, killing at least 41
people and injuring more than 100.

"We call on the international community once again to act in solidarity against
terrorism," the ministry statement said.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0805 gmt 8 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 8, 2008 Tuesday

Russia condemns terrorist attack on embassy in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 87 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency ITAR-TASS

Moscow, 8 July: Moscow has decisively condemned misanthropic acts of terrorists
in Kabul, Andrey Nesterenko, Russian Foreign Ministry official representative,
said today.

"We are sure that they [terrorists] will be strongly rebuffed. Another murderous
terrorist act in Kabul committed near the walls of the Indian embassy [on 7
July] has caused outrage both in Russia and the whole world," Nesterenko said.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0847 gmt 8 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              July 8, 2008 Tuesday

Norwegian Government: Norway condemns terrorist attack in Kabul

LENGTH: 223 words


RDATE:08072008

"Norway condemns the terrorist attack outside the Indian Embassy in Kabul on
Monday, in which 40 innocent civilians, including employees at the Indian
Embassy, were killed, and more than 100 people were injured. There is no excuse
for such terrorist actions," said Norway's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jonas
Gahr Store.

"On behalf of the Norwegian Government, I would like to express our deepest
sympathy with the families of those who have been affected and with the Afghan
and Indian authorities," Mr Store continued.

"This brutal terrorist attack has been carried out with the sole purpose of
sabotaging the on-going work to stabilise Afghanistan and the international
efforts to build a foundation for peaceful development in the country. We do not
want actions such as this to impede this important work.

Norway will continue to honour its commitments to the Afghan people to secure
development towards a peaceful and stable Afghanistan," Mr Store concluded.

CONTACT: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Norwegian Government Tel: +47 22 24 36 00
Fax: +47 22 24 95 80/81

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Mid Devon Gazette

                                  July 8, 2008

MP urges us all to dig for victory in war on terror;
British food supplies could be at risk in the event of a terrorist attack
because the country has become too reliant on foreign imports, says a local Tory
MP.

SECTION: Pg. 24

LENGTH: 376 words


The Conservative MP for Tiverton and Honiton, Angela Browning, accused the
Government of allowing the proportion of homegrown food to tumble in the last
decade, leaving the UK more exposed to threats at home and overseas.

Mrs Browning, who served as an agriculture minister in the last Conservative
government, called for more creative planning to ensure the nation has enough to
eat, including a major drive to encourage gardeners to feed themselves from
allotments.

Speaking in a Parliamentary debate on food security, she said: "We are an island
nation and if we had a form of horrendous disaster we would probably be
dependent on in-coming food and that is a dangerous position to be in."

Mrs Browning warned against Britain becoming "dependent on other countries for
certain staple crops" to the same extent as the control Russia now wields over
the nation's gas supply.

She added: "On a very small scale, I would like to see more people growing food
on allotments. It's what my generation used to do as the norm."

The Tories point to figures showing that of the crops that could be grown in
Britain, the amount actually produced here has fallen from 81.8 per cent in 1997
to only 73.9 per cent last year.

However, ministers insist the nation's food supply chain is resilient to the
threat of terrorist attacks, precisely because of the varied sources we buy
from.

The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said that if a particular
link in the chain were disrupted, other suppliers could step in and ensure there
was food on the table.

"The terrorist threat to the UK, including the threat to the food chain, is
monitored very closely by the Government and we and the industry remain
vigilant," a source told the Gazette.

But Environment Secretary Hilary Benn insisted: "Domestic production is
necessary for food security but it is not on its own sufficient."

The Gazette's farming columnist, David Disney, of Sampford Peverell, said that
food security had to be given far greater emphasis.

He said: "You just have to look at the effects of the droughts in Australia and
New Zealand on global food production. British food production is back on the
radar."

A spokesman for the South West NFU, Ian Johnson, described Mrs Browning's
comments as "spot-on".

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 198


                        Copyright 2008 Mid Devon Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      July 9, 2008 Wednesday 07:30 PM GMT

Six killed in terror attack on US consulate in Turkey

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 579 words


Armed men opened fire today on Turkish police guarding the front entrance to the
US consulate in Istanbul, killing three policemen in what Turkish and US
officials called a terrorist attack. Three assailants were also reported killed.

The US ambassador to Turkey, Ross Wilson, and Turkey's foreign ministry said
security around all US diplomatic missions in Turkey was immediately increased
after the attack, which began about 11am on the high-walled compound in the
Istinye district.

All US consulate staff were safe and accounted for, Mr Wilson said.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack. Interior Minister
Besir Atalay said police would not reveal the identities of the slain attackers
or their possible affiliations for the sake of the investigation.

Footage from a security camera at the site showed four armed and bearded men
emerging from a grey car to kill a traffic policeman, then running toward the
guardpost 50 yards away as other policemen fired back, the Dogan news agency
reported.

The shootout caused panic and scattered people waiting in visa queue, Dogan
said. US security personnel then ducked inside the compound since they are not
authorised to engage in armed action on Turkish soil.

Three of the attackers were killed in the shootout, US and Turkish officials
said. The video showed a fourth attacker jumping into the speeding grey vehicle
and fleeing, Dogan reported.

Police are pursuing an unknown number of attackers who escaped.

Istanbul prosecutor Aykut Cengiz Engin said the attackers were armed with
pistols and shotguns. Forensic teams later examined a shotgun on the ground.

Television footage showed four people lying on the ground at the foot of the
consulate's wall. The bodies were later removed.

"There is no doubt that this is a terrorist attack," Istanbul Governor Muammer
Guler told reporters at the scene, calling the three slain policemen martyrs.
Two other people, a policeman and a truck driver, were injured, he said.

Yavuz Erkut Yuksel, a bystander, told CNN-Turk television the gunmen surprised
the guard.

"One of them approached a policeman while hiding his gun and shot him in the
head," Mr Yuksel said.

Mr Guler said two of the attackers were Turkish, denying speculation that they
had Syrian passports.

The US ambassador refused to speculate on the identity of the attackers but
stressed that the US and Turkey would keep working together against terrorism.

"It is, of course, inappropriate now to speculate on who may have done this or
why. It is an obvious act of terrorism," Mr Wilson said. "Our countries will
stand together and confront this, as we have in the past."

He also praised Turkish police for responding quickly to the attack.

The secure US consulate building was built after homegrown Islamic militants
linked to al Qaida carried out suicide bombings in 2003 that targeted two
synagogues, the British Consulate and a British bank in Istanbul. Those attacks
killed 58 people.

Some of those suicide attackers had trained in al Qaida camps in Afghanistan.
CNN-Turk television reported that some of Wednesday's attackers had travelled to
Afghanistan previously, but police would not confirm the report.

Dogan identified one of the attackers as 26-year-old Erkan Kirgiz from the
south-eastern city of Bitlis. Police would not confirm the report.

The consulate occupies an imposing structure on a hill in Istinye, a densely
residential neighbourhood along the Bosporus Strait on the European side of
Istanbul.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             July 9, 2008 Wednesday

United Nations: Security Council Press Statement On Terrorist Attacks In
Pakistan

LENGTH: 358 words


RDATE:08072008

The following Security Council press statement on the Pakistan terrorist attacks
was read out today by Council President Le Luong Minh ( Viet Nam):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the
terrorist suicide attack that occurred in Islamabad on 6 July, causing numerous
deaths among Pakistani civilians and police personnel, as well as numerous
injuries. The members of the Security Council also condemned in the strongest
terms the series of terrorist attacks that occurred in parts of Karachi on 7
July, causing multiple casualties.

The members of the Security Council expressed their condolences to the families
of the victims, as well as to the people and the Government of Pakistan.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of this reprehensible act of terrorism to
justice, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with the Pakistan authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their concern at the threats
posed by the Taliban, Al-Qaida and illegal armed groups to peace and security in
the region.

The members of the Security Council reaffirmed the need to combat by all means,
in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, threats to international
peace and security caused by terrorist acts. The members of the Security Council
reminded States that they must ensure that measures taken to combat terrorism
comply with all their obligations under international law, in particular
international human rights, refugee and humanitarian law.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to combat all
forms of terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of
the United Nations.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             July 9, 2008 Wednesday

Detica Group plc: Detica announces development of first 40Gbit/s StreamShield
cybersecurity sensors for large telecommunications operators and ISPs; Advanced
technology for securing the online environment against disruptive attacks from
terrorists and organised criminals

LENGTH: 786 words


RDATE:09072008

LONDON -- Detica Group plc (DCA.L), the business and technology consultancy,
today announces its plans to develop 40Gbit/s StreamShield cybersecurity sensors
for securing the online environment against disruptive attacks from terrorists
and organised criminals. Detica will be one of the first companies to offer this
high-speed cybersecurity capability to the telecommunications market.

Detica's new 40Gbit/s interface card for the StreamShield DCI-90 platform will
expand its current 10Gbit/s and 1Gbit/s StreamShield threat detection and
mitigation products. The DCI-90 provides the industry's most comprehensive deep
packet inspection capabilities, complementing the gigabit level streams-based
security provided by the CSG 3100. Detica expects to make the 40Gbit/s
Streamshield sensors commercially available in 2009.

Joel Bagnal, until recently Deputy Assistant to President George W. Bush for
Homeland Security and now Executive Vice President at Detica, says: "Securing
the world's information infrastructure from Internet-based threats is one of the
principal challenges today for both homeland security and telecoms operators.
StreamShield solutions such as the DCI-90 and the CSG-3100 will be critical to
securing the online environment against attacks being mounted by both terrorists
and organised criminals."

With the continued explosion in Internet traffic volumes, 40Gbit/s is rapidly
being deployed at the core of some of the world's largest ISPs and Detica is
committed to maintaining its lead at the forefront of high speed network
cybersecurity solutions.

Following the integration of the StreamShield business into Detica, the entire
StreamShield product line  incorporating DCI-90 high speed sensors and the
market-leading CSG 3100 platform for detection and mitigation of malicious
Internet content  will now be enhanced to provide 40Gbit/s interfaces to the
DCI-90.

Commenting on the announcement, Simon Reay, Vice President of StreamShield
Sales, says: "We are committed to developing the 40 Gbit/s sensors in response
to strong demand from the telecommunications and ISP market. Detica will be one
of the first companies to offer this kind of high speed cybersecurity capability
which we believe will play a key role in securing the online environment against
those who threaten the security of the state, the safety of the public, or who
seek to commit serious and organised crime."

Notes to editors

About Detica

Detica is the only business and technology consulting company to specialise in
helping clients reveal valuable information and actionable intelligence in their
data.

From its roots in national security, Detica has developed in-depth experience in
financial services, government, media and telecoms - information-intensive
industries that benefit from its expertise in turning complex information into
relevant intelligence. Detica's understanding of these industries helps it to
see client needs and issues more clearly and deliver greater business value.

Detica's industry experience, combined with technological innovation, means it
has developed a world-class capability in delivering solutions within the areas
of security and resilience, fraud containment, risk management and customer
management. In these areas, Detica delivers a broad range of services from
strategy formulation, people and process change to the delivery and support of
technology solutions.

Detica delivers projects of significant scale across commercial and government
markets in the UK, US and mainland Europe. Detica's commercial clients include
RBS, Barclays, Reuters, UBS, Sony, Sky, BT and Vodafone. Government clients
include Home Office, HM Revenue & Customs, Department for Transport and Ministry
of Defence. Detica has offices in Amsterdam, Arlington, Chicago, Columbia,
Geneva, Gloucester, Guildford, London and New York.  For further information,
please visit www.detica.com.

Detica and Detica Limited product names are registered trademarks or trademarks
of Detica Limited in the UK and in other countries. Other brand and product
names are registered trademarks or trademarks of their respective companies.
Detica Limited is registered in England under number 1337451 and has its
registered office at Surrey Research Park, Guildford, England, GU2 7YP.

CONTACT: Rachel Ringstead Tel: +44 (0)207 853 2289 e-mail:
rachel.ringstead@porternovelli.co.uk Sally Clift Tel: +44 (0)207 853 2310
e-mail: sally.clift@porternovelli.co.uk

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 10, 2008 Thursday

Terrorists kill three policemen in attack on US consulate in Turkey

BYLINE: Graeme Baker

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 408  words


GUNMEN launched a raid on the American consulate in Istanbul yesterday, killing
three police officers before being shot dead themselves in a fierce gun battle.

In what Turkish and US officials condemned as a "terrorist attack'', three men
stormed a police post near the main entrance to the heavily fortified compound,
reportedly shooting the lone guard in the head. A gun battle then erupted as
Turkish police returned fire.

The attack ended with the deaths of three gunmen and two more officers. A fourth
assailant escaped in a vehicle which police said may have been laden with
explosives.

Two other people - a policeman and the civilian driver of a police truck - were
injured, said Muammer Guler, the Istanbul governor.

Witnesses said the battle began around 11am and raged for at least eight minutes
as the assailants apparently tried to gain access to the consulate.

Television images showed bodies lying on the pavement, surrounded by trails of
blood and weapons. Police said they had recovered shotguns, rifles and handguns.

The police post was outside the consulate's main public entrance, from which
steep steps lead up to the fortified building. A witness, Yavuz Erkut Yuksel,
said the attackers emerged from a white vehicle and surprised the officer at the
guard post.

"One of them approached a policeman while hiding his gun and shot him in the
head,'' he said.

Another witness described the attackers as "terrorists, with beards and long
hair''.

Enis Yilmaz, who was visiting the consulate for a visa, said: "There were four
people. Three of them got out of the car and fired at the police. I saw them
dead afterwards lying on the ground and many more dead among the police.''

Turkey has been targeted by a variety of groups in recent years, including
Kurdish separatists and Islamist militants.

No one has claimed responsibility for the attack. However, suspicion immediately
fell on Islamist militants who have launched a number of raids and bomb attacks
in recent years. The US consulate building was moved and fortified after
home-grown Islamists linked to al-Qa'eda bombed two synagogues, the British
Consulate and a British bank in Istanbul in November 2003, killing 58 people.

Abdullah Gul, President of  Turkey, said: "I strongly condemn such terrorist

acts. Turkey will fight to the end against those who are behind them.''

The attack was "an obvious act of terrorism'' aimed at America, the US
ambassador to Turkey, Ross Wilson, said.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            July 10, 2008, Thursday

SIX KILLED IN TURKEY TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 81 words


THREE policemen and three gunmen were killed yesterday in an attack on the US
consulate in Istanbul.

The bearded men opened fire on Turkish cops guarding the entrance to the walled
compound.

A fourth militant escaped in a grey vehicle. US ambassador Ross Wilson said all
consulate staff were safe and accounted for.

He added that security around all US diplomatic buildings in the country had
been increased immediately.

No one claimed responsibility for the attack but al-Qaeda are suspected.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily Record (PM) - UK

                             July 10, 2008 Thursday
                                 North Edition

Six killed in Turkey terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 83 words


THREE policemen and three gunmen were killed yesterday in an attack on the US
consulate in Istanbul.

The bearded men opened fire on Turkish cops guarding the entrance to the walled
compound.

A fourth militant escaped in a grey vehicle. US ambassador Ross Wilson said all
consulate staff were safe and accounted for.

He added that security around all US diplomatic buildings in the country had
been increased immediately.

No one claimed responsibility for the attack but al-Qaeda are suspected.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       July 10, 2008 Thursday 2:09 PM BST

'DAFT AND DANGEROUS' TERROR DETENTION PLAN ATTACKED

BYLINE: David Hughes, PA Chief Parliamentary Reporter

SECTION: PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 226 words


The Government was today urged to back down over plans to extend the terror
detention limit to 42 days after the ``monstering'' the proposals received from
former MI5 chief Baroness Manningham-Buller.

In Lords debate on the Counter-Terrorism Bill this week, the peer said the
proposals were unworkable in practice or principle.

In the Commons today, the SNP's Pete Wishart called on ministers to scrap the
legislation to extend the pre-charge time period beyond 28 days.

The controversial measure scraped through the Commons with the Government's
majority slashed to just nine votes in one of the stiffest tests of Gordon
Brown's authority.

In questions on future business, Mr Wishart (Perth and N Perthshire) said MPs
were looking forward to the Bill returning ``especially after the monstering it
received from the former head of MI5 Lady Manningham-Buller''.

He said there had been a ``chorus of disapproval'' about the proposals and the
public were ``overwhelmingly'' opposed to the measure.

``Will it take a Government defeat before these daft and dangerous proposals are
withdrawn?''

Commons Leader Harriet Harman insisted the Government's responsibility was ``to
make sure that everyone in this country is safe from terrorism and also that
civil liberties are protected''.

The Human Rights Act provides a ``backstop'' to protect people's liberties, she
added.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                              July 11, 2008 Friday

Gull attack terror like 'the birds'

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 210 words


A Woman was left shocked and needed treatment for head wounds after an attack by
a seagull likened to a scene from  Hitchcock's chilling film The Birds.

The 36-year-old was walking along The Esplanade at Burnham-on-Sea when the  gull
swooped and started stabbing her head with its beak.

The woman, who does not wish to be named, suffered three puncture wounds and
heavy bleeding in the attack, near the pier, on Wednesday morning.

She stumbled home and was later treated at Weston General Hospital.

Mark Newman, chairman of Burnham Area Rescue Boat, said: "This was almost
certainly an adult trying to protect a young gull.

"The bird obviously thought this lady was walking a little too close to one of
its chicks.

"It was a terrifying incident for her although it only lasted for a matter of
seconds. She was very shaken up and taken to A&E.

"There was an awful lot of blood and she required a tetanus injection. Otherwise
she is OK.

"We all think of Hitchcock's film The Birds with something like this and here it
is actually happening.

"These incidents are rare, although not unheard of. I would say there are one or
two seagull attacks every couple of years in Burnham.

"I've never heard of anyone  getting injured before - usually people are able to
shoo them away."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2008 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Kent and Sussex Courier

                                 July 11, 2008

OBE for glittering career in the force;
A Policeman from Tonbridge who helped lead the response to the July 7 terror
attacks picked up his OBE from the Prince of Wales last week.

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 153 words


Andy Trotter, 56, the British Transport Police deputy chief constable, was given
the honour in recognition of his glittering career which has seen him rise from
a Pc in Paddock Wood to his current role.

"It was wonderful, a wonderful day," he said of the Buckingham Palace reception
on Thursday last week.

Mr Trotter, who is vice president of Tonbridge Juddians and Maidstone rugby
clubs, said. It was not the first visit to the palace for the father-of-five, as
when he was a senior officer in the Met, he had been in charge of policing the
Queen's jubilee.

He had also previously received the Queen's police medal from the monarch.

Yet he says the highlight of the day was not meeting Prince Charles or getting
to speak to sporting royalty, but hearing the stories of the others being
honoured.

"The most important thing is the chance to meet other people who got there
awards for some pretty fantastic things," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 101


                     Copyright 2008 Kent and Sussex Courier
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                              July 11, 2008 Friday

United Nations: Security Council Press Statement On Terrorist Attack In Turkey

LENGTH: 315 words


RDATE:10072008

The following Security Council press statement was read out today by Council
President Le Luong Minh ( Viet Nam):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the
terrorist attack on Turkish police protecting the United States Consulate
General in Istanbul on 9 July 2008, causing death and injury to Turkish police
personnel. The members of the Security Council expressed their condolences to
the families of the victims, as well as to the people and the Governments of
Turkey and the United States.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of this reprehensible act of terrorism to
justice, and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with the Turkish authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reiterated that all acts of terrorism are
criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, and reaffirmed the
need to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United
Nations, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must ensure that
measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and
humanitarian law.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to combat all
forms of terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of
the United Nations.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

POLICE PROBE Driver terror as vandals attack train

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 37 words


POLICE are hunting a gang of vandals who smashed the windscreen of a moving
train.

The driver  narrowly escaped injury after the thugs pelted the cab with stones
near Coatbridge.

A passerby said: "He  could have been killed."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 15, 2008 Tuesday

Russia: Three charged for allegedly preparing terror attack

LENGTH: 216 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Chelyabinsk, 15 July: Three members of the extremist organization Hezb-e Tahrir
in Chelyabinsk have been charged with preparing a terrorist attack.

The young people were charged under Article 282.2 Part 2 (organizing activities
of a terrorist organization), Article 30 Part 1, Article 205 Part 3 (preparing a
terrorist attack by an organized group) and Article 222 Part 2 of the Russian
Criminal Code (illegal purchasing, carrying, storing ammunition by an organized
group), the press service of the Chelyabinsk Region prosecutor's office said
today.

According to the press service, the accused "disseminated campaign literature of
an extremist nature, and tried to persuade the population to forcibly change
Russia's political and state system by means of jihad" in the region.

"Following searches carried out at the extremists' homes, nine grenades,
extremist literature and pictures of social facilities and the buildings of the
authorities and law-enforcement agencies have been discovered," the press
service said.

Two of the accused were convicted in December 2007 under Article 282.2 Part 2 of
the Russian Criminal Code. They received a one-year suspended sentence.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0448 gmt 15 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             July 15, 2008 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

JAWS DROPPING STUNT;
Lucky surfer escapes shark attack terror

BYLINE: by CAMERON MILLAR

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 17

LENGTH: 70 words


A SURFER powers through the waves unaware a deadly shark has swum up behind him.

The six-foot hunter leaps from the surf just feet from the man, then twists and
disappears.

The drama happened off New Smyrna Beach, Florida - dubbed the shark-bite capital
of the world. Twelve people have already been attacked this year.

Amateur snapper Kem McNair, 55, who took the pics, said: "The whole event
happened in just half a second."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLOSE CALL: Up pops Jaws just feet from the unsuspecting surfers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                             July 15, 2008, Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Terror attack airport chief lands top job at city terminal

BYLINE: Andrew Picken Transport Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 359 words


Acting MD Dewar aiming to shape up expansion plans

THE man who guided Glasgow Airport through last year's terror attack has been
appointed the new boss at Edinburgh Airport.

Gordon Dewar, 41, will take up his managing director role in September after
current boss David Johnston moved to a new job with airport operator BAA.

He is Edinburgh Airport's third managing director in 18 months, but Mr Dewar,
who has been acting MD for the past month, said he was looking forward to
shaping the airport's expansion plans.

Born and bred in the Capital, Mr Dewar today promised to build on the airport's
successes in establishing itself as Scotland's number one airport.

Before joining BAA in February last year, Mr Dewar worked for transport
consultancy group Halcrow and among the projects he worked on was creating the
city's road traffic greenways.

He said: "It has been a privilege to lead the team at Glasgow Airport over the
last 17 months, particularly in the immediate aftermath of last year's attack,
when the dedication and professionalism of our staff ensured the airport was
back in business within 24 hours.

"The attack underlined the importance of emergency planning and working with
external agencies.

"The day itself was obviously a challenge but it is only in the following days
that you appreciate the skills of your staff and the amount of work which was
put in."

He said he was looking forward to the challenges at Edinburgh and insisted the
airport was "crucial" to the Capital's future.

The previous managing director, Mr Johnston, was in the airport's hot seat for
less than a year having taken over from Richard Jeffrey, who had been in the
post for six years.

Mr Johnston was last month promoted to group procurement director for BAA and
one of his first jobs will be to help sort the aftermath of the Heathrow
terminal five debacle.

Edinburgh Airport is now Scotland's busiest, carrying more than nine million
passengers a year.

The growth has been achieved thanks to expansion of direct international links
from the Capital.

Colin Matthews, BAA's chief executive, said: "Gordon has been a key member of
the BAA Scotland team over the past two years."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             July 15, 2008, Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

POLICE DOG MAULS NURSE;
EXCLUSIVE Teen tells of terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 381 words


A TEENAGER today relived the terrifying moment she was mauled by a police dog as
she walked home after a night out.

Chelsea Birkenhead had 24 stitches in her left arm after she was attacked by the
German shepherd in Stoneycroft.

The police dog, which was not on a lead, pounced on the 18-year-old Dovecot
dental nurse as she walked along Albany Road to a friend's house in the early
hours of Saturday morning.

Speaking from her hospital bed, Chelsea said: "We came out of the pub at about
midnight and were walking down the road to a friend's house.

"There is a pathway which you can use to cut through. But as we went to walk
down a policeman came running out with a dog and shouted at us to stop.

"I stopped straight away but the dog ran over to my friend and jumped at him.

Then it turned on me.

"It had my arm in its mouth and wouldn't let go.

It was ragging my arm.

"The policeman was shouting at it, but it wouldn't let go. I was hysterical"
Chelsea was taken to a nearby house where she was cared for until paramedics
arrived.

She was taken to the Royal Liverpool Hospital where she had an operation to
assess the extent of the damage.

The teenager and her family said they were considering lodging an official
complaint with Merseyside police.

Chelsea added: "I have got 24 stitches in my arm.

At the moment I have no feeling in my fingers.

"I used to like dogs. But now I am terrified of them." A police spokeswoman
said: "At 11.30pm on Friday night we got reports of a vehicle being stolen from
Classic Road, Stoneycroft.

"The people who stole the vehicle then baled out of it close to the alleyway
where this incident happened. The dog section picked up the call and then set
the dog out.

"The handler and the dog had gone down the alleyway at the same time as this
girl and her friend.

"The dog handler warned them to stand still, but it appears the girl panicked
and started to jump about and the dog went for her instead and bit her on the
lower arm.

"The dog section has carried out a safety check and established that it was
appropriate for the dog to have been deployed in these circumstances."

The spokeswoman added: "The matter has been referred to the professional
standards department and the Independent Police Complaints Commission."

michellefiddler@liverpoolecho.co.uk 0151 472 2529

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL: Chelsea Birkenhead shows the injuries to her arm, which
required 24 stitches Picture: ANDREW TEEBAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 15, 2008 Tuesday
                                 1 Star Edition

YES, WE DID PLOT BOMB ATTACK ON HEATHROW;
TERROR TRIAL TRIO'S ADMISSION

BYLINE: BY ADRIAN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 236 words


THREE British Muslims yesterday admitted plotting to plant bombs at Heathrow
airport and the Commons.

They claimed they planned to detonate small devices in and around London in
protest at British foreign policy.

But they deny being part of a bigger conspiracy to blow up seven transatlantic
jets with liquid bombs hidden in bottles of Oasis and Lucozade soft drinks
bottles.

Ahmed Abdulla Ali, 27, Assad Sarwar, 28, and Tanvir Hussain, 27, are alleged to
have been the ringleaders.

A three-month trial at Woolwich crown court, South London, has heard how suicide
bombers were to board flights to America and Canada and detonate the devices in
mid air.

They and five other men deny conspiracy to murder between January and August,
2006, but they admit conspiring to cause explosions.

They also admitted, along with Ibrahim Savant, 27, and Umar Islam, 30, making
martyrdom videos.

In the tapes, played to the jury, the men vowed to fight a jihadi holy war on
the West in retaliation for the deaths of Muslims in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The court heard how the plotters were secretly taped at a flat they bought in
Walthamstow, East London.

Peter Wright, QC, prosecuting, said that the plot was smashed when Ali was
arrested with a blueprint for the operation recorded in a pocket diary and on a
computer memory stick.

Mr Wright said: "It was their chance to achieve immor-f tality and notoriety in
equal measure." The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUSPECTS Hussain, left Sarwar, centre, and Ali, far right, are in court

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday

Algerian army repel "terrorist attack" east of Bouira

LENGTH: 277 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 16 July

[Report by L. K.: "Bouira: Terrorist Attack Thwarted in Ahnif" - first paragraph
is El Watan introduction]

This past Sunday [13 July] night into Monday morning, at about 2200 hours, a
terrorist attack targeted a detachment from the municipal guard of the village
of Tikesrai, in the municipality of Ahnif, east of Bouira.

According to our sources, the terrorists tried to besiege the detachment by
first using sustained fire from Kalashnikovs followed by rocket fire, clearly
from an RPG7 or a homemade device, the impact of which caused no damage, with
the exception of the sentry box, which was reportedly damaged in part. Thanks to
the vigilance of the elements from this detachment, the terrorist group was
repelled after several minutes of an exchange of fire. Right after having heard
the first gun shots, the elements of the National People's Army [ANP] posted
several hundred meters from there arrived as reinforcements on the scene and
kicked off a chase to hunt down the attackers.

A search operation ensued. Moreover, it has been learned that the very next day
(Monday), an explosive device, the nature of which has not been determined,
exploded in the spot known as Taferkout (11.5 kilometres south of the main town,
in the direction of Ighil n'Ath Amer as a team from the Municipal People's
Assembly's [APN] technical agencies was going past that had been on an
inspection mission for the project to tap a spring in that place. Fortunately
the explosion caused no damage, it was learned from those present at the scene.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 16 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday

Pakistan PM condemns Afghan leader's comments on terror attacks

LENGTH: 123 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Lahore, 16 July: Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani on Wednesday [16 July]
strongly condemned Afghan President Hamed Karzai's statement over Pakistan's
alleged involvement in terrorist attacks inside Afghanistan, and said it could
hamper development process in the region.

In a statement issued before the start of cabinet meeting here, the prime
minister said Pakistan declared at all forums that a stable Afghanistan is in
the interest of Pakistan and the entire region. He said Pakistan provided
all-out support for the establishment of a stable government in Afghanistan.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0700gmt
16 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Oxford Mail

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday

JR in terrorist attack exercise

BYLINE: Andrew Ffrench

SECTION: OXFORD NEWS

LENGTH: 450  words


More than 200 staff from Oxfordshire emergency crews took part in a terrorist
training exercise yesterday in which nerve gas was released on a coach on the
M40.

Although those taking part were not dealing with a real-life incident, managers
said lessons were learned from the largest exercise of its kind to take place at
Oxford's John Radcliffe Hospital.

Emergency crews worked alongside staff at the hospital in Exercise Orpheus II,
which was overseen by the Government's Health Protection Agency.

The scenario was a horrific one - patients had been exposed to the deadly
chemical Sarin which was used in an attack on the Tokyo underground in 1995.

Gas victims were brought to the hospital and staff were then asked to find out
what was wrong with them before providing appropriate treatment.

Rosemary Dooley, deputy director of operations at the hospital, said: "We are
the first trust in the country to look at how staff would respond to a nerve
agent attack.

"It's the biggest exercise of this kind in a working hospital and we tried to
ensure normal patients could come and go without their day being interrupted.

"This was an excellent opportunity for the trust to test the hospital and health
care staff's response to a major incident in real time.

"I was nervous at first about staging this, but as time went on I realised there
was lots to be gained from going ahead with it.

"We can refine our plans as part of the debriefing and learn much more than in a
paper exercise.

"I think the public will be reassured by that."

Fifty casualties were played by actors, medical students and hospital staff.
After arriving at the hospital they were "decontaminated" in specially-provided
showers.

Once they had been though that process, they were dressed in high-visibility
suits before being admitted to the hospital wards for treatment.

Ambulance teams, hospital staff and other emergency services were also dressed
in chemical-proof suits as part of the dramatic scenario.

John Simpson, deputy director of emergency response at the Health Protection
Agency, said: "Our field exercises give our colleagues in the NHS and the
emergency services the chance to practise and hone their skills in an
environment which is as close to reality as we can make it."

Mr Simpson said yesterday's "nightmare scenario" involved a terrorist travelling
on a coach on the M40.

He was carrying a bottle of the nerve gas Sarin which leaked - and the driver
and passengers were overcome with fumes.

There were further casualties when the coach lost control and crashed into a
service station.

"Sarin was a useful substance to use in this scenario because it throws up
symptoms we don't often see in clinical practice," Mr Simpson added.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday

Angler in knife attack terror

BYLINE:  Gill Roberts

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 101 words


Two teenagers have been arrested after an alleged knife attack in Llanelli.

A youth group worker claims he was set upon by two teenage boys as he enjoyed a
fishing trip with  youngsters.

Clive Beckett claimed a knife was pulled after he was confronted by the two boys
at Furnace Pond. Mr Beckett said he feared for his life.

He said: "What flashed through my mind was, I was going to be another statistic.

"In the corner of my eye I saw a knife."

Mr Beckett fled to his car and claims one of the pair plunged the knife through
the window.

Dyfed-Powys Police have confirmed that two males had been arrested and bailed.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday

Angler in knife attack terror

BYLINE: Gill Roberts

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 101 words


Two teenagers have been arrested after an alleged knife attack in Llanelli.

A youth group worker claims he was set upon by two teenage boys as he enjoyed a
fishing trip with  youngsters.

Clive Beckett claimed a knife was pulled after he was confronted by the two boys
at Furnace Pond. Mr Beckett said he feared for his life.

He said: "What flashed through my mind was, I was going to be another statistic.

"In the corner of my eye I saw a knife."

Mr Beckett fled to his car and claims one of the pair plunged the knife through
the window.

Dyfed-Powys Police have confirmed that two males had been arrested and bailed.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS


               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Oxfordshire

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday

JR in terrorist attack exercise

BYLINE: Andrew Ffrench

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: Oxford Mail


More than 200 staff from Oxfordshire emergency crews took part in a terrorist
training exercise yesterday in which nerve gas was released on a coach on the
M40.

Although those taking part were not dealing with a real-life incident, managers
said lessons were learned from the largest exercise of its kind to take place at
Oxford's John Radcliffe Hospital.

Emergency crews worked alongside staff at the hospital in Exercise Orpheus II,
which was overseen by the Government's Health Protection Agency.

The scenario was a horrific one - patients had been exposed to the deadly
chemical Sarin which was used in an attack on the Tokyo underground in 1995.

Gas victims were brought to the hospital and staff were then asked to find out
what was wrong with them before providing appropriate treatment.

Rosemary Dooley, deputy director of operations at the hospital, said: "We are
the first trust in the country to look at how staff would respond to a nerve
agent attack.

"It's the biggest exercise of this kind in a working hospital and we tried to
ensure normal patients could come and go without their day being interrupted.

"This was an excellent opportunity for the trust to test the hospital and health
care staff's response to a major incident in real time.

"I was nervous at first about staging this, but as time went on I realised there
was lots to be gained from going ahead with it.

"We can refine our plans as part of the debriefing and learn much more than in a
paper exercise.

"I think the public will be reassured by that."

Fifty casualties were played by actors, medical students and hospital staff.
After arriving at the hospital they were "decontaminated" in specially-provided
showers.

Once they had been though that process, they were dressed in high-visibility
suits before being admitted to the hospital wards for treatment.

Ambulance teams, hospital staff and other emergency services were also dressed
in chemical-proof suits as part of the dramatic scenario.

John Simpson, deputy director of emergency response at the Health Protection
Agency, said: "Our field exercises give our colleagues in the NHS and the
emergency services the chance to practise and hone their skills in an
environment which is as close to reality as we can make it."

Mr Simpson said yesterday's "nightmare scenario" involved a terrorist travelling
on a coach on the M40.

He was carrying a bottle of the nerve gas Sarin which leaked - and the driver
and passengers were overcome with fumes.

There were further casualties when the coach lost control and crashed into a
service station.

"Sarin was a useful substance to use in this scenario because it throws up
symptoms we don't often see in clinical practice," Mr Simpson added.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A 'casualty arrives at the John Radcliffe

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 17, 2008 Thursday

Turkey condemns 16 Jul terror attack in Iraq, sends medical aid

LENGTH: 132 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

[" TURKEY CONDEMNS RECENT DEADLY TERRORIST ATTACK IN IRAQ" - AA headline]

ANKARA (A.A) -Turkey strongly condemned Wednesday's deadly terrorist attack in
Tal Afar town of Iraq.

Turkish Foreign Ministry stated on Thursday that the abhorrent terrorist attack
that took place in Tal Afar, claiming 25 lives and wounding many other Iraqis,
had aroused deep sorrow.

Turkey sent an ambulance plane and delivered medical equipment to Tal Afar on
Thursday, said the ministry.

Also several of the wounded Iraqi citizens would be brought to Turkey for
treatment, it said.

A car bomb killed 25 people and wounded dozens at a market in the northern town
of Tal Afar in Iraq on Wednesday.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0750 gmt 17 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Cornishman

                             July 17, 2008 Thursday

Gay men's 'terror' after man's verbal attack in lay-by, hear magistrates

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 462 words


Two gay men were subjected to a frightening verbal attack when they were in a
lay-by near Truro, magistrates in the city heard.

The men, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were both upset by what
happened, said Sarah Topham, prosecuting.

One was said to be "absolutely terrified" and the other "unnerved".

Henry Bradley, aged 47, of Talland Court, Talland Road, St Ives, who works at
his father's garage at Scorrier, Redruth, pleaded guilty to two offences of
using threatening behaviour in November last year.

Ms Topham said both victims were gay men who on November 1 had been using  a
lay-by on the A390 between Tresillian and Probus known as The Truck.

The first victim frequented the area regularly, meeting a circle of friends,
some of whom were gay and some not.

At 8.30pm he was sitting in his vehicle and meeting with a friend, the other
victim, who was parked beside him, talking through the driver's window. Bradley
drove his Mondeo towards them at speed with headlights on and engine revving and
the victim braced himself for a collision before the car stopped about two feet
in front of him.

The car pulled alongside and Bradley screamed a torrent of abuse at them. The
first victim, terrified for his safety, drove away, noting the Mondeo's
registration.

The second found Bradley's actions sufficiently intimidating to drive away as
well. Four days later a victim was again in the lay-by and noticed Bradley's
car. Bradley got out with fists clenched, suggesting he was ready to fight.

The victim drove past and left. Bradley told the police a victim had driven past
smiling as he was parked and as he did not like gay men he had intended to be
insulting in response.

He had gone to the lay-by to meet with other straight men  to talk about women.
He had no intention of carrying out his threats, saying he was a wimp and had
been bullied himself as a child.  He said gay men had no right to be in the
lay-by, saying he would continue his actions in the future.

Ms Topham said the two victims regarded Bradley as being a threat to the gay
community.

Robin Smith, defending, said Bradley's behaviour was admittedly bizarre. He was
a man of very limited abilities, could not read or write and led a fairly
protected life working with his father, who could keep an eye on him since he
was prone to some odd behaviour.

He had difficulty in knowing what was appropriate and what was not.

He had stopped in the lay-by with engine trouble. When one or both of the
victims had attempted to attract his attention, it made him aggressive and shout
unpleasant things.

He was feeling intimidated himself because of it. The case was adjourned for a
full probation report to August 4.

A condition of Bradley's bail was that he should not enter any lay-by between
Truro and St Austell.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 60


                         Copyright 2008 The Cornishman
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Cornishman

                                 July 17, 2008

Gay men's 'terror' after man's verbal attack in lay-by, hear magistrates;
Two gay men were subjected to a frightening verbal attack when they were in a
lay-by near Truro, magistrates in the city heard.

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 441 words


The men, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were both upset by what
happened, said Sarah Topham, prosecuting.

One was said to be "absolutely terrified" and the other "unnerved".

Henry Bradley, aged 47, of Talland Court, Talland Road, St Ives, who works at
his father's garage at Scorrier, Redruth, pleaded guilty to two offences of
using threatening behaviour in November last year.

Ms Topham said both victims were gay men who on November 1 had been using  a
lay-by on the A390 between Tresillian and Probus known as The Truck.

The first victim frequented the area regularly, meeting a circle of friends,
some of whom were gay and some not.

At 8.30pm he was sitting in his vehicle and meeting with a friend, the other
victim, who was parked beside him, talking through the driver's window. Bradley
drove his Mondeo towards them at speed with headlights on and engine revving and
the victim braced himself for a collision before the car stopped about two feet
in front of him.

The car pulled alongside and Bradley screamed a torrent of abuse at them. The
first victim, terrified for his safety, drove away, noting the Mondeo's
registration.

The second found Bradley's actions sufficiently intimidating to drive away as
well. Four days later a victim was again in the lay-by and noticed Bradley's
car. Bradley got out with fists clenched, suggesting he was ready to fight.

The victim drove past and left. Bradley told the police a victim had driven past
smiling as he was parked and as he did not like gay men he had intended to be
insulting in response.

He had gone to the lay-by to meet with other straight men  to talk about women.
He had no intention of carrying out his threats, saying he was a wimp and had
been bullied himself as a child.  He said gay men had no right to be in the
lay-by, saying he would continue his actions in the future.

Ms Topham said the two victims regarded Bradley as being a threat to the gay
community.

Robin Smith, defending, said Bradley's behaviour was admittedly bizarre. He was
a man of very limited abilities, could not read or write and led a fairly
protected life working with his father, who could keep an eye on him since he
was prone to some odd behaviour.

He had difficulty in knowing what was appropriate and what was not.

He had stopped in the lay-by with engine trouble. When one or both of the
victims had attempted to attract his attention, it made him aggressive and shout
unpleasant things.

He was feeling intimidated himself because of it. The case was adjourned for a
full probation report to August 4.

A condition of Bradley's bail was that he should not enter any lay-by between
Truro and St Austell.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 60


                         Copyright 2008 The Cornishman
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Llanelli Star

                             July 17, 2008 Thursday

Angler speaks of knife attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 219 words


A Fisherman has described his terror as a youth allegedly lunged at him with a
knife.

Clive Beckett (pictured) claimed he was confronted by two teenagers, one of whom
pulled a filleting knife on him while he was out fishing at Furnace Ponds in
Llanelli on Saturday afternoon.

Mr Beckett had been out with Llanelli Carp and Coarse Fishing Club.

The 58-year-old, from Stradey, Llanelli, said he feared for his life when he was
approached by the two youths.

He said: "What flashed through my mind was that I was going to be another
statistic."

The incident happened at  around 3.50pm when Mr Beckett was moving a trailer
with some of his group.

He had noticed one of the teenagers in the pond and said his friend had warned
the youth of the dangers of being in the water.

One of the pair then approached one of the youngsters in the fishing party and
Mr Beckett intervened.

The youth then started shouting and threw a punch at him, he claimed. The other
boy, meanwhile, allegedly pulled out a knife and made short stabbing motions
towards Mr Beckett.

A Dyfed-Powys Police spokesman said: "Two males in the area were approached by
another two males. Two males have been arrested and are currently on bail.

"A knife was presented. There were no serious injuries."

Police are appealing for witnesses to call them on  0845 330 2000.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 39


                          Copyright 2008 Llanelli Star
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Llanelli Star

                                 July 17, 2008

Angler speaks of knife attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 219 words


A Fisherman has described his terror as a youth allegedly lunged at him with a
knife.

Clive Beckett (pictured) claimed he was confronted by two teenagers, one of whom
pulled a filleting knife on him while he was out fishing at Furnace Ponds in
Llanelli on Saturday afternoon.

Mr Beckett had been out with Llanelli Carp and Coarse Fishing Club.

The 58-year-old, from Stradey, Llanelli, said he feared for his life when he was
approached by the two youths.

He said: "What flashed through my mind was that I was going to be another
statistic."

The incident happened at  around 3.50pm when Mr Beckett was moving a trailer
with some of his group.

He had noticed one of the teenagers in the pond and said his friend had warned
the youth of the dangers of being in the water.

One of the pair then approached one of the youngsters in the fishing party and
Mr Beckett intervened.

The youth then started shouting and threw a punch at him, he claimed. The other
boy, meanwhile, allegedly pulled out a knife and made short stabbing motions
towards Mr Beckett.

A Dyfed-Powys Police spokesman said: "Two males in the area were approached by
another two males. Two males have been arrested and are currently on bail.

"A knife was presented. There were no serious injuries."

Police are appealing for witnesses to call them on  0845 330 2000.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 39


                          Copyright 2008 Llanelli Star
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              July 18, 2008 Friday

North-east oil worker relives terror attack on vessel

BYLINE: Ryan Crighton

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 392 words


A north-east oil worker has told of his terror as six speedboats full of armed
militants attacked his ship 75 miles off the coast of Nigeria.

The man, who does not want to be named over fears for his job, said that workers
on board the Shell Bonga floating production storage and off-loading vessel
watched in fear as the militia used sledgehammers to try to smash in a door on
the huge vessel.

"They were smashing this door for ages with sledgehammers, but one padlock held
on - we are very lucky it did," he said.

The militants first tried to climb over the side of the vessel, but were unable
to because of the grease.

They then turned their attention to the rear of the ship, where there is an
entrance covered by huge steel doors.

The worker continued: "They were spraying the accommodation with heavy fire and
there are bullet holes all over the back end of the ship.

"One of the lifeboats is holed, but we survived them getting in the
accommodation, otherwise we would be captive."

Workers have since resigned over fears that the militants will return and attack
the facility again.

The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta has accepted responsibility
for the attack, which happened last month, saying that they wanted to send out a
message to companies that offshore oil facilities are not safe from their
attacks.

The group says it is fighting for a greater share of the tens of billions of
pounds of oil revenue generated by their impoverished region.

Until now, the group has mainly blown up oil pipelines and kidnapped expatriate
workers in the shallow creeks of southern Nigeria.

However, it said the attack may not be its last in deep waters.

Earlier this month, the UK Government said it would be "reckless" for Britons to
remain in Nigeria without proper security advice.

The Foreign Office first urged workers to return home in June last year after
officials ruled the security risk in the trouble-torn Niger Delta region was too
severe.

Since then, some firms have withdrawn workers, but around 250 Scottish oil
workers are still thought to be in Nigeria, about half of them from the
north-east.

Kidnapping of foreign workers is common in the lawless delta, which produces
around 2.5million barrels of crude oil a day for Nigeria.

Since January 2006, some 36 Britons and more than 180 foreigners have been
kidnapped. One Briton was killed.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2008 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 18, 2008 Friday

China: Security ministry issues manual on actions in terror attacks

LENGTH: 308 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

BEIJING, July 17 (Xinhua) - China's Ministry of Public Security on Thursday
issued a manual to help citizens survive terrorist attacks as the country was
tightening security in the last-minute preparation for the Olympic Games.

Chinese police invited experts in this field to work out such a manual to teach
citizens how to discover possible terrorist attacks, to take proper actions in
face of such attacks and minimize damages.

The book included 39 scenarios of terrorist attacks including explosion, arson,
kidnap, shooting and even attacks of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons.

It teaches people how to identify suspicious substances, for instance, a bomb,
and how to help themselves and each other in such dangerous conditions as being
kidnapped by terrorists.

"What to do after being abducted? Please try your best to stay calm. Don't fight
back, don't meet kidnappers' eyes, don't talk, move slowly and try your best to
hide your communication devices," the manual said. "Lie face down on the ground
when the police attack the terrorists."

"The book is practical. If correctly following its instruction, citizens are
very much likely to escape and even stop a terrorist attack," the statement
said.

Beijing and other Olympic co-host cities are stepping up security measures.
Airports in these cities will adopt twice security checks from July 20 and
passengers are required to show their IDs to buy bus, train and ship tickets to
these cities. The police have set up checkpoints along the highways in and out
of Beijing.

The police also announced awards ranging from 10,000 to 500,000 yuan (1,449 to
72,463 US dollars) for people providing useful tips to stop serious crimes
during the Games.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1409 gmt 17 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              July 18, 2008 Friday

Feature - More slingshots at Davis;
Solomon Hughes on how a Tory advocate of 'civil liberties' used the terror
threat to attack unions

BYLINE: Solomon Hughes

LENGTH: 985 words


I am probably throwing small pebbles at a large train that has long since left
the station, but let's look again at David Davis's civil liberties stand.

Davis said that one of the most important issues that he managed to raise in his
by-election campaign was that innocent people can be held for 42 days without
charge. When the government says "terror suspects," it wants you to hear the
first word, not the second.

I think that Davis is right. This one simple, basic idea needs to be reinforced.

The government wants to play the "terrorist alert" card as its joker. Davis's
stand reshuffled the deck. The fact that Davis stood to the left of the
government on this issue is testimony to the rottenness of Labour's leadership.
In fairness, it is also testimony to Davis's genuine belief and commitment.

So, figures on Labour's left like Tony Benn and Bob Marshall-Andrews were right
to try to get involved in the argument that Davis started. But I think that they
were very wrong to endorse Davis as a candidate.

That's because Davis, very specifically, does not want trade unionists on board
his freedom train.

As I said last week, Davis wanted to ban public-sector strikes. Under the Davis
plan for freedom, the current strikes by council workers would be illegal.

Davis was also one of the government ministers who opposed trade union rights at
GCHQ.

Margaret Thatcher banned unions at the government communications centre in 1984
as part of her attack on labour rights. There was a widespread campaign to
restore this basic and historic civil liberty - there were rallies every year at
Cheltenham, home of GCHQ.

I was one of the many Civil Service union reps who organised a strike in 1988
when the government sacked the last GCHQ staff who had refused to give up their
union membership.

Davis's response to this grass-roots campaign for liberty was to oppose it and
play the "terrorist alert" card.

In 1994, Davis was minister for public service in John Major's Tory government.
Labour MP Jack Cunningham proposed a motion to restore union rights to GCHQ
workers. Davis told the Commons that GCHQ workers must not have union rights
because, among other things, of the danger of "rising state-sponsored
terrorism," a phrase that he used twice.

Davis also has links to an even more sinister attack on the unions.

After a long career in sugar firm Tate & Lyle, he became a director of the
company from 1987 to 1990. In those years, Tate & Lyle funded and supported the
Economic League, a right-wing organisation that kept secret files on union
militants and political activists so that employers could keep them out of work.

Perhaps Davis did not know, but his company was a prominent supporter of the
league. Sir Saxon Tate was both a fellow director of Tate & Lyle and the boss of
the Economic League.

Davis was in Parliament when Labour MPs attacked the league and its lists, but
he said nothing. His fellow Tory MPs defended the organisation.

But the league's files were not only wrong, they were also riddled with errors.
The Economic League's snoops and spies stuck anyone who wrote the wrong kind of
letter to the newspapers in their secret database.

Genuine union activists were kept out of work by this nasty bunch and so were
people who had only a tenuous link to the left. Those who were blacklisted had
no opportunity to challenge the league's secret files. Eventually, a concerted
campaign by MPs, trade unionists and journalists broke the league.

It seems that Davis doesn't think that civil rights include trade union rights,
although, in fact, authoritarian governments always go for union rights first.

For this reason, I think that Benn and Marshall-Andrews should have supported
the Green candidate in the Haltemprice and Howden by-election who ran against
both authoritarian and neoliberal politics.

Why another David shows up the rotten core of new Labour

The fact that David Davis was able to stand as a David against Labour's
authoritarian Goliath shows how rotten and right wing the party's leadership has
become.

Another David offers a reminder of Labour's grisly record in office - David
Manning, one of Blair's top advisers, is now employed by Goliath Inc.

Manning, a civil servant rather than party politician, was intimately involved
in planning the Iraq war. Manning has now taken not one but two jobs with
Lockheed, an arms-maker which profited from the bloody destruction of Iraq.

Manning was Blair's foreign policy adviser from 2001 to 2003. He acted as link
man with then US national security adviser Condoleezza Rice.

We know from the leaked Manning Memorandum that he "had dinner with Condi" in
March 2002 and told her that his boss Blair "would not budge in ... support for
regime change but you had to manage a press, a Parliament and a public opinion
that was very different than anything in the States."

Manning told Rice that Blair backed the war plans, but needed to work on his
pro-war PR in Britain.

We also know that Manning had discussions in July 2003, according to a memo from
Blair's private secretary, that concluded: "It seemed clear that Bush had made
up his mind to take military action, even if the timing was not yet decided. But
the case was thin. Saddam was not threatening his neighbours, and his WMD
capability was less than that of Libya."

Despite this, "we should work on the assumption that the UK would take part in
any military action."

Manning helped Blair get his war and Lockheed sold lots of bombs and planes to
help kill people. Lockheed's handy brochure on Operation Iraqi Freedom reveals
that the company made one of the biggest contributions to the bombing of the
country.

Manning was rewarded in 2003 with the plum posting of ambassador to Washington.
He has now retired back to Britain, but he clearly wants to keep active.

This month, Manning took two jobs with Lockheed UK - he will both sit on the
board and have a special job as adviser to its chief executive.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                             July 19, 2008 Saturday

Knife Teen Jailed Over Terror Attack

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 300 words


A KNIFEMAN held a blade to a woman's throat during a terrifying attack in her
own home.

Teenager Carl Nesbitt turned up at the woman's house claiming to have a message
for her.

But then, for no apparent reason, he kicked the victim's door in and pushed a
knife into her throat.

Newcastle Crown Court heard the 38-year-old woman has been left so traumatised
by the ordeal she has been forced to move out of her home in Chopwell,
Gateshead.

Sending Nesbitt to a young offenders institute for 12 months, Recorder Dallas
said: "After a brief conversation you kicked open her door, grabbed her by the
throat and produced a large kitchen knife.

"You placed it to her throat. She was terrified and tried to telephone the
emergency services, but you cut her off.

"That woman suffered in her own home the most frightening experience and the
effect on her has been a long and lasting one.

"She no longer feels safe and she and her children have had to move elsewhere.
The consequences of your behaviour will live with her for many a year."

Nesbitt, 19 of Queen Street, Chopwell, had turned up at the 38-year-old
mum-of-two's home at 6.30pm on November 13 last year.

He claimed to have a message from a third party, but then began his violent
attack.

Paul Caulfield, prosecuting, said: "Events inexplicably took a worrying turn
when he kicked the door open, grabbed the victim by the throat then pulled a
knife from his back pocket which he pressed to the victims throat."

Nesbitt pleaded guilty to possession of a offensive weapon as his trial was
about to begin, having initially denied the offence.

Rachel Hedworth, defending, said: "He has personal limitations."

His parents have struggled to control his behaviour and he has struggled with
ADHD and was on Ritalin at the time.

"He has not coped well in custody," she added.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                             July 19, 2008 Saturday

Livery yard owner speaks of terror at nunchuck attack

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 290 words


A Livery owner says she will never forget the attack she was subjected to by a
Baron's daughter and her fiance.

Lynda Rankine, of Red Hill Farm, Highleadon, said she was terrified by the
altercation at her farm, when the Honourable Linda Granville drove a 4x4 at her.

She dived out of the way and Granville's boyfriend Paul Bellingham got out of
the vehicle and threatened Lynda's friend with his nunchucks, a court heard.

Granville, 59, whose father Baron Granville of Eye is a life peer, was convicted
of criminal damage, for damaging a fence, and fined £1,000.

Bellingham, 37, was found guilty of possessing an offensive weapon and using
threatening, abusive and insulting words or behaviour.

He was given a two-year suspended sentence, two-year supervision order, 250
hours of community service and told to pay £625 in costs by Cheltenham
magistrates.

Mrs Rankine said: "The whole thing was horrendous, I'll never forget it.

"I feel a lot happier he has got a suspended sentence because it might act as a
deterrent to stop them doing this at other yards.

"We would like to thank the police and the court for their support."

The court heard trouble flared when Granville and Bellingham, of Moorend Road,
Cheltenham, went to collect their horse on January 25.

Mrs Rankine's husband John presented them with an £81 bill but they said it was
too much and should only have been £37.

The couple tried to leave but the Rankines locked the gate to stop them.

As he was sentenced, Bellingham said he was sorry for everything that happened.

Chairman of the bench David Harley said: "The abusive language and threats left
several victims in fear.

"The possession of an offensive weapon was premeditated, because it was carried
around with him for at least a week."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 32


                      Copyright 2008 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                            July 23, 2008 Wednesday

Woman's terror at car attack

BYLINE: Fiona Mcwhirter

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 315 words


A WOMAN today said she had feared for her life when a man in a car grabbed at
her.

The attacker followed her on a North-east road, passing twice before pulling up
beside her.

The 22-year-old told of her terror in the incident, which happened on the old
A96 road at Inverurie.

She was walking home from work between North Street and Drimmies Corner when the
incident happened.

The woman, who asked not to be named, first saw her attacker at a roundabout.

"He put his window down and put his head out," she said.

"He was sort of smirking and laughing, I was totally frightened."

Hurrying onwards, the woman nervously watched every car that passed and saw the
same one again.

She said: "It was really scary and horrible."

After driving past her, the man, who was in a small blue hatchback she believed
to be a Ford Ka, turned and went down the other side of the road.

But then he returned.

"He came back and slowed the car right down," she said.

"I was hurrying along, I could see the lights shining on me, I knew he was close
but I didn't know how close.

"I could hear the engine so I turned round and noticed he was right next to me.

"I turned to run but he opened the car door and grabbed my arm."

The woman was wearing a short-sleeved jumper at the time of the incident, on
Monday at 11pm, and said it was "creepy" to feel his hand on her bare skin.

She said: "I thought I was dead."

Running for her life, she made it to a nearby street but the first house had no
lights on.

She said: "I turned round and he was driving towards me again.

"I ran and hid behind some garages on that street and phoned my boyfriend who
came running down to get me."

The police were later called.

Although the woman was not hurt she was badly shaken.

Her attacker was in his 30s with blonde, spiked hair and blue eyes.

He wore a brown suit and waistcoat and it was thought the car may have been a
left-hand drive.

fmcwhirter@ajl.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2008 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            July 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                  IRE Edition

Digger driver in terror attack as Obama begins Israeli visit

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 281 words


CROWDS scattered in terror as a Palestinian driving a digger rampaged along a
street in Jerusalem yesterday.

The drama happened close to a hotel where U.S. presidential contender Barack
Obama was due to arrive a few hours later.

More than 20 people were hurt, including a baby, after the man roared out of a
building site and smashed into a bus and five cars.

One man's leg was severed when the attack overturned his car. A bus driver and a
pedestrian narrowly escaped death as the earthmover rolled towards them, its
shovel aimed at their heads.

The driver, who came from a village in the occupied West Bank, was shot and
wounded by an Israeli settler, father-of-eight Yaki Asael, 56, then killed by a
hail of bullets from a police patrol.

The attack was a copy of another rampage in the city three weeks ago, which
killed three people and injured 60. Obama, who was due to fly to Israel last
night, said his 'thoughts and prayers go out to all who were injured, and to
their families'.

Speaking in Amman, Jordan, he said: 'Today's attack is a reminder of what
Israelis have courageously lived with on a daily basis for far too long. I
strongly condemn this attack and will always support Israel in confronting
terrorism and pursuing lasting peace and security.'

The Democrat senator, who will hold talks with Israeli and Palestinian leaders
today, was due to stay at the King David Hotel, 200 yards from the scene of the
attack. Police said they had no evidence to suggest a link.

The attack happened less than half a mile from the official residence of Israeli
president Shimon Peres as he played host to Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas.

It was the first such visit by a Palestinian president.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Obama: Nearby hotel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            July 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

WOMAN RUSHED TO HOSPITAL AFTER ASSAULT TERROR;
Victim attacked as kids played nearby

BYLINE: GARY FANNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 393 words


POLICE launched an investigation yesterday after a woman was viciously attacked
in the street while children played nearby.

The victim was taken to hospital following the frightening assault, which took
place in Morar Drive, Foxbar, Paisley, at around 11.30am yesterday.

Youngsters had been playing just yards away in the grounds of Brediland Primary
School when the attack happened.

It's understood the woman suffered an arm injury and was rushed to Paisley's
Royal Alexandra Hospital, where she received a number of stitches to her wound.

Officers were quickly at the scene and sealed off part of the pavement in Morar
Drive as they combed the area for clues.

One worried mum who lives nearby told the Paisley Daily Express: "I was watching
television and heard a commotion outside in the street but, at the time, I
didn't think it was anything serious.

"It was only when I looked out of my window later on that I noticed a lot of
police activity in the street.

"One of my neighbours told me a young woman had been hurt and there was blood
splattered on the pavement where the attack took place.

"I could see that the police had sealed off part of the street. They had put
yellow markers down on the ground and I guess that was to identify something
they might be able to use as evidence.

"It also looked like officers were taking photographs of the scene."

Police were yesterday hoping to interview the victim to find out what type of
weapon - if any - was used in the attack.

Annette Smith, 71, who lives near the scene of the attack was shocked to learn
that a woman had been assaulted in broad daylight.

She said: "This area is normally fine and most people just keep themselves to
themselves.

"I didn't see or hear anything out of the ordinary until I spotted a police car
in the street."

Another neighbour, who didn't want to be named, added: "I came back from the
shops and noticed the police car but I just thought they had pulled someone over
for speeding or something like that.

"I didn't think much more about it at the time but it's worrying to hear that
someone was attacked."

A police spokesperson said: "I can confirm that we were called to Morar Drive
after a woman was assaulted and our enquiries are continuing."

Anyone who has information is asked to call Paisley Police on 0141 532 5900 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PROBE: Officers search for clues at the scene of the attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            July 24, 2008, Thursday

HIT-AND-RUN THUG TRIED TO KILL US AND OUR UNBORN CHILD;
EXCLUSIVE COUPLE TELL OF CAR ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: By Chris Musson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 435 words


A PREGNANT woman told yesterday how a hit-and-run maniac tried to kill her and
her unborn baby.

Caroline Bain was thrown over the bonnet of a car when the driver deliberately
rammed into her outside asupermarket.

She lost consciousness and when she came round, she had to endure an agonising
wait to find out if her baby had survived.

Caroline, who is four months pregnant, said: "The car bounced off a speed bump
and came straight up on to the pavement. I froze but I managed to put my hands
forward and on to the bonnet as it came at me.

"It hit me on the top of the legs and then I blacked out. When I woke up in the
ambulance, I was panicked. I just kept thinking about the baby."

Caroline's boyfriend Terence Harvey, who was with her at the time of the
hit-and-run, said: "I dropped to my knees. I thought I had lost them both -
Caroline and the baby.

"I've got no doubt that they tried to kill Caroline. They drove at me and missed
me, then revved up and went straight for her.

"It was like something out of a Hollywood movie. I couldn't believe what was
happening with this maniac speeding around trying to run people over."

Mother-of-two Caroline, of Milton, Glasgow, and Terence, both 32, had stopped
outside the Somerfield supermarket in the Gorbals to tell two of friends their
baby news.

A man and a woman in a burgundy Nissan Note stopped and asked them if they had
drugs.

When they told him they didn't, the man drove off - but came back and aimed
straight at them.

The attack was witnessed by a coach-load of players from Lancashire side Burnley
FC, who were on a pre-season tour of Scotland.

Terence, who lives in the Gorbals. tried to stop the coach, but it drove off.

He said: "The Nissan driver's eyes were bulging. We told him that we didn't have
anything and he seemed to be raging. He'd been around the side of Somerfield,
asking people for drugs. He started to drive away and the woman in the car was
screaming and telling him to go back."

The driver turned around in the middle of traffic lights, mounted the kerb and
steered towards the four pals.

When they scattered in different directions to get away, the Nissan careered
towards Terence.

It then drove at Caroline, flipping her into the air.

Fortunately, she landed on her side and her baby was unharmed.

But Caroline, who has two sons aged 14 and four, suffered bruising and grazes to
her back, arms and legs.

She said: "I am still in shock and really sore. But I feel lucky to be alive."

Yesterday, Burnley FC spokesman Darren Bentley said the club would be happy to
speak to police about the hit-and-run attack, which happened around 1pm on
Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INJURED: Caroline with Terence BILL FLEMING
SCENE: The couple were driven at close to the Gorbals supermarket

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Chester Chronicle

                                 July 25, 2008
                                  City Edition

Cyclists' tripwire terror;
Riders attacked with plank trying to stop youths' trap

BYLINE: Laurie Stocks-Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 267 words


CYCLISTS were subjected to a savage attack after challenging teenagers tying a
tripwire across a cycle path.

Two Chester men, aged 24 and 26, were cycling on the Millennium Cycleway from
Hoole to North Wales last Tuesday afternoon when they spotted two boys, aged
16-18, setting up a steel wire trap near Saughall Road, Blacon.

Cheshire police spokeswoman Rachel Hayes said when they challenged the pair, the
youths struck them with a plank of wood; their injuries required hospital
treatment.

The assault happened just five days before a motorcyclist was thrown from his
saddle and killed when he rode into wire suspended between two trees on a dirt
track in Southport.

Martin Gooch, of Chester and North Wales Cycling Touring Club, said: "It's not
the first time wire has been put across there. There's always kids there having
a go."

Steve Howe, of Brookes Avenue, Broughton, who regularly uses the route, warned:
"If this is the sort of stuff that goes on, somebody is going to die."

Blacon PCSO Mike Henry said: "Now we have found out there is a problem, we are
trying to combat that and increase patrols. I don't want people to be scared."

Sustrans' cyclepath, land and maintenance manager Paul Thomas said: "We work
hard to try and publicise the cycleway as somewhere great for families to go so
it's a bit of a worry."

A Sustrans warden will be checking the area regularly.

Police are appealing for anyone who saw the teenagers - who were wearing dark
tracksuits, had shaven heads and slim builds - to come forward.

Call Chester Outer NPU on 0845 458 6375 or Crimestoppers on 0800555111.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  ON PATROL: Blacon PCSOs Melanie Johnson and Mike Henry with
environmental protection officer Paul Blackburn at the Millennium Cycleway,
Saughall Road Bridge, Blacon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 25, 2008 Friday

Terrorists 'planned attack on Olympic football'

BYLINE: Richard Spencer in Beijing

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 510  words


CHINA claimed yesterday to have broken up an "international terrorist cell''
that was plotting an attack against an Olympics football qualifying game in
Shanghai.

"We obtained information that international terrorist organisations would likely
launch an attack against an Olympic venue in the city during the Games,'' said
Cheng Jiulong, head of the city's Olympic security bureau.

"We have staged raids and cracked a group of terrorists.''

In common with a string of such claims by the Chinese authorities in recent
months, no further details were immediately given, such as the number of
arrests, what cause the terrorists were representing, the nature, if any, of
weapons captured, or what the purpose of the attack was to have been.

But there has been an intensification of security in the last six months across
the country, and a number of "terrorist plots'' have been uncovered.

The most serious have been connected to the Uighur ethnic minority from Xinjiang
province in the far west, whose "separatist forces'' are said to be in league
with al-Qaeda.

In one incident in March, a girl found with a drinks can filled with a
suspicious liquid was said to have been plotting to bring down an aircraft in
mid-flight, possibly on Beijing's new airport terminal.

At the same time, the police said they had smashed a separate group in Urumqi,
the Xinjiang capital. A group of plotters was found with guns and homemade
explosives.

In total, 82 "Uighur terrorists'' have been rounded up in a series of arrests
across the province so far this year, with several more killed. Yet in at least
one case, residents disputed police reports of a gun fight between armed
militants and the security forces.

The most recent major incident involved police raiding the flat of a group of
Uighurs. They were said to have resisted arrest and five of the group were shot
dead.

Police reported finding a large number of knives - but no guns or explosives -
in the flat, and said in English language reports not repeated in Chinese
language media that those arrested confessed to plotting "Holy War''.

One difficulty in assessing such claims is that the government is deliberately
vague in distinguishing between violent attacks and protests, particularly by
those they accuse of being "splittist'', such as Uighurs and Tibetans.

In a typical speech, Meng Jiangzhu, the minister for public security, told
paramilitary police training for the Olympics this week to "resolutely prevent
severe violence and terrorist incidents, resolutely prevent severe political
incidents that could affect state security and social stability and resolutely
prevent large-scale mass incidents to make sure the objective of a safe Olympic
Games is reached''.

The football stadium in Shanghai, which will host 12 qualifying games, has been
closed to the public since Sunday. It was now "safe'' but threats remained,
according to Mr Cheng.

In Beijing, Olympic security officials confirmed this week that anti-aircraft
batteries had been placed near the Olympic green and security checks on vehicles
had increased.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 26, 2008 Saturday

Chinese police deny "terrorist attacks" behind recent explosions

LENGTH: 378 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

[Xinhua: "1st Ld: Chinese Police Deny "Terrorist Attacks" Behind Recent
explosions"]

BEIJING, July 26 (Xinhua) - Chinese authorities have denied claims by a Uighur
separatist group that it took credit for a series of attacks in different
Chinese cities, including deadly bus explosions in Kunming and Shanghai.

Two explosions occurred about an hour apart on two buses during the morning rush
hour on Monday in Kunming, capital of southwestern Yunnan Province, leaving two
dead and 14 injured.

"We have noticed media report about the claims, but so far, no evidence has been
found to indicate the explosions were connected with terrorists and their
attacks, or with the Beijing Olympics," a Yunnan Provincial Department of Public
Security spokesman told Xinhua on Saturday.

"As to whether the explosions were masterminded by many suspects or just an
individual, there is no conclusion now," he said. "The investigation is
continuing."

Local police have tripled the reward to 300,000 yuan (about 43,500 US dollars)
for information that could help to solve the two blasts.

Also Saturday, Shanghai police reiterated that the May 5 bus blast in the city
had nothing to do with "terrorist attacks." Shanghai is a co-host city of next
month's Olympics.

An investigation showed that the blast, which killed three people and injured
12, was caused by inflammables such as oil, said Cheng Jiulong, Shanghai
Municipal Public Security Bureau deputy head.

"The blast was indeed deliberate but had nothing to do with terrorist attacks,"
he said.

Two of the dead were local female residents. Police have yet to confirm the
identity of the male victim.

Cheng did not provide further details about the latest development of the case.

A group calling itself the Turkistan Islamic Party released a video threatening
the Beijing Olympic Games, according to AFP and Reuters.

The group also claimed responsibility for several other attacks, including an
attack on police in the eastern city of Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, on July 17
with an explosive-laden tractor and the bombing of a plastics factory in the
southern city of Guangzhou on the same day.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0910 gmt 26 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 26, 2008 Saturday

Pakistan province warns key leaders of possible terror attacks

LENGTH: 158 words


Text from report headlined "Sindh government warns of attacks on key
politicians" by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 26 July

Lahore [Punjab Province]: The Sindh government has warned that terrorists might
attack key political leaders of the province, Samaa TV reported on Friday [25
July]. According to the channel, Sindh Home Minister Zulfikar Mirza said that
leaders of the Pakistan People's Party (PPP), the Muttahida Qaumi Movement and
the Awami National Party faced threats from terrorists. He said some religious
seminaries were imparting training in terrorist activities, adding that the
government was 'watching' their activities. He said the sketches of the people
who had snatched a vehicle suspected to have been used in the killing of PPP
Co-Chairman Asif Ali Zardari's Chief Security Officer Khalid Shahenshah had been
prepared and those responsible would soon be arrested.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 26 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 26, 2008 Saturday

Afghan paper says Pakistan terror sanctuaries cause of increased attacks

LENGTH: 361 words


Text of editorial in Dari entitle "Pakistan does not fight its opponents!?" by
private Afghan newspaper Arman-e Melli on 26 July

Leaders of Pakistan's major religious parties held a meeting with members of the
Pakistani government on Wednesday [23 July 2008] in which they agreed to solve
their differences with Pakistan-based opposition groups through dialogue. The
government also assured that it will not fight against those parties.

This agreement shows that Pakistanis are in the process of giving boost to their
interference in Afghan affairs. Although Taleban activities in Afghanistan have
increased in different recently, it seems that intensification of the conflict
is linked with Hamed Karzai's statement after the attack on Indian embassy in
Kabul.

In that statement, president of Afghanistan implicated the role of Pakistan in
recent incidents in Afghanistan. Later, the cabinet of Afghanistan also raised
its voice and suspended negotiations with Pakistan.

In reaction to the decision of the Afghan cabinet, Pakistanis denied any
interference in Afghan affairs, but the world has realized that ISI provides
every possible support to opponents of the government of Afghanistan. This
organization even provides support to Chinese, Tajik, Uzbek and Kyrgyz
dissidents so that they work to destabilize their respective countries.

Apparently, religious extremists in Pakistan, international al-Qa'idah networks
and the world's biggest intelligence organizations give these dissidents
inspirations of establishing Islamic Emirates in the region.

The ongoing great game in the region is linked to big intelligence agencies, and
huge companies which aim to usurp economies of developing and underdeveloped
countries. There is no doubt that Afghanistan is the battle field in this game.

Interestingly, Pakistani leaders - in Wednesday's meeting - vowed not to allow
foreign fighters to organize in Pakistan to achieve their goals.

This comes at a time when many foreign fighters including Arabs, Uzbeks, Tajiks
and recently Uyghur [Muslims] of China have flooded the area to speed up the
process of destabilizing the region.

Source: Arman-e Melli, Kabul, in Dari 26 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 26, 2008 Saturday

Chinese police deny 'terrorist attacks' behind recent blasts - update

LENGTH: 1095 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

BEIJING, July 26 (Xinhua) - Chinese authorities on Saturday denied claims by a
Uighur separatist group that it took credit for a series of attacks in different
Chinese cities, including deadly bus explosions in Kunming and Shanghai.

A group calling itself the Turkistan Islamic Party had released a video
threatening the Beijing Olympic Games, according to AFP and Reuters, citing
IntelCentre, a Washington-based terrorism monitoring firm.

The group also claimed responsibility for several other attacks, including an
attack on police in the eastern city of Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, on July 17
with an explosive-laden tractor and the bombing of a plastics factory in the
southern city of Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, on the same day.

China's Ministry of Public Security declined to comment on Saturday, but police
authorities in Zhejiang, Guangdong, Shanghai and Yunnan refuted the claims.

Meanwhile, police in the northwestern Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region said
they had noticed the group's claims.

"We will continue to keep a close watch over the social situation in Xinjiang
and strive to ensure Olympic security," a Xinjiang Autonomous Regional Public
Security Bureau spokesman said.

"We have dispatched hundreds of police officers who can speak Uighur ethnic
language to major cities in other provinces this year to assist in ensuring
local social stability," he said.

Xinjiang police were also working with their counterparts in Yunnan to
investigate Monday's bus explosions, he added.

Local police said earlier they had cracked five terrorism groups in the first
half of 2008 in Xinjiang, detaining 82 suspected terrorists who allegedly
plotted sabotage against the Beijing Olympics.

Zhejiang police on Saturday refuted the separatist group's claims.

"There was definitely no such violent attack against police in the whole
province on July 17," a Zhejiang Provincial Public Security Department spokesman
said.

According to the description of explosive-laden tractor in the Wenzhou blast as
claimed by the separatist group, the incident happened on May 17 instead of July
17 - and it was not targeted at police.

The May explosion that killed 17 in what was originally thought to be a traffic
accident was in fact caused by a disgruntled gambler plotting revenge with an
apparent bomb attack.

"Nonsense! The explosion totally had nothing to do with terrorist groups," Chen
Shichun, the Wenzhou Municipal Public Security Bureau head, said.

He said Hu Baoqiang, 44, had driven a tractor carrying a tank of gas and
explosives to a gambling den. This appeared to be a planned attack after he had
lost money gambling.

The explosion occurred outside a small building alleged to have been a local
gambling den when the tractor was involved in a collision with a car and a
minibus.

Forty people were injured, including those in the alleged gambling den, bus
passengers and passersby.

Hu was also killed in the blast in Longwan Village of Wenzhou's Longwan
District.

The man was the boss of an illegal local quarry and this was why he had
explosives, Chen said.

Also Saturday, the Guangdong Provincial Public Security Department told Xinhua
that "there was no terrorist attacks on July 17 in Guangzhou."

In another case, two explosions occurred about an hour apart on two buses during
the morning rush hour on Monday in Kunming, capital of southwestern Yunnan
Province, leaving two dead and 14 injured.

"We have noticed media report about the claims, but so far, no evidence has been
found to indicate the explosions were connected with terrorists and their
attacks, or with the Beijing Olympics," a Yunnan Provincial Department of Public
Security spokesman told Xinhua on Saturday.

"As to whether the explosions were masterminded by many suspects or just an
individual, there is no conclusion now," he said. "The investigation is
continuing."

Local police have tripled the reward to 300,000 yuan (about 43,500 US dollars)
fo r information that could help to solve the two blasts.

In a related development, police in the eastern city of Yangzhou on Thursday
detained a 23-year-old vegetable peddler surnamed Wang who had claimed
responsibility for the two explosions and threatened to carry out more in
future.

Wang said during a police interrogation he made the acts with the purposes of
getting more, stronger attention and worship from netizens.

But his "confession" was questioned by police and media, because he was very
frivolous during the interrogation and impudently called himself a "newsmaker."

"I just did it (the explosions) for fun. That can arouse the attention of the
great masses of the on-line people. I don't think my acts have broken the law,"
he was quoted as saying by the Yangzi Evening News in Yangzhou on Saturday.

Shanghai police reiterated on Saturday that the May 5 bus blast in the city had
nothing to do with "terrorist attacks." Shanghai is a co-host city of next
month's Olympics.

An investigation showed that the blast, which killed three people and injured
12, was caused by inflammables such as oil, said Cheng Jiulong, Shanghai
Municipal Public Security Bureau deputy head.

"The blast was indeed deliberate but had nothing to do with terrorist attacks,"
he said.

Two of the dead were local female residents. Police have yet to confirm the
identity of the male victim, and have offered a 50,000-yuan (7,350 US dollars)
reward for information about the man.

Cheng did not provide further details about the latest development of the case.

Cheng said on Wednesday Shanghai police had cracked a terrorist group who
planned to attack a football preliminary venue in the Olympic co-host city.

"We have obtained information that international terrorist organizations would
likely launch an attack against an Olympic venue in the city during the Games,"
he said.

"We have staged raids and cracked a group of terrorists." But he didn't provide
further details such as when the terrorists were detected, how many suspects
were detained and where they came from.

According to global intelligence analysts Stratfor, the Turkistan Islamic Party
is another name used by the Eastern Turkistan Islamic Party,AFP reported on
Saturday.

The Eastern Turkistan Islamic Party is also known as the ETIM, or the Eastern
Turkistan Islamic Movement.

The United States, China and other countries have designated ETIM a terrorist
group. They are an ethnic Uighur and Muslim separatist group seeking to create
an independent state in Xinjiang.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1213 gmt 26 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             July 26, 2008 Saturday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Boy attacked in his home is afraid to leave;
TERROR: Gang forced their way in and beat the teenager

BYLINE: By Emma Stone CRIME REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 285 words


A 13-YEAR-OLD Coventry boy has been left scared to leave the house after being
attacked in his own home.

The teenager was inside his home in Station Street East, Foleshill when there
was a knock at the door. When he answered the door, a gang of men and women
barged into the house and attacked him.

The teenager was left with head injuries, which needed stitches, and a swollen
eye.

It is unclear at this stage whether weapons were used in the attack, which took
place between 9.30-9.45pm on Monday, May 5.

Officers based at Stoney Stanton Road police station are investigating, trawling
through CCTV footage from the area.

Pc Mark Darby explained from the footage, a white boxer van can be seen pulling
up on Edgewick Road, opposite Station Street East.

The suspected gang are seen getting out of the van and walking across the road.

A couple of minutes later two of the gang are seen running to the van and a
further two are seen running down the road with possible weapons in their hands.

A member of the public is also coming out of a house and looking around, then
going back inside the building.

Pc Mark Darby, of Stoney Stanton Road police station, said: "The victim was
quite badly shaken, and he doesn't like to go outside anymore.

"He is now very quiet and withdrawn."

The attackers are described as a black male, in his late 20s with a strong
build, short straight hair, wearing a black shirt; a mixedrace male, in his mid
20s, wearing a black zip-up jacket; a black male; a mixed-race female aged
around 18, slim with a pierced cheek; and a mixed-race female wearing
sunglasses.

Anyone with information should contact PC Mark Darby in Stoney Stanton Road CID
on 0845 113 5000 or call Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                            July 26, 2008, Saturday
                                  FIN Edition

JET ATTACK NOT TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 271 words


AN EXPLOSION that blew a hole the size of a small car in a jumbo jet from London
to Melbourne was not a terrorist attack, investigators believe.

Passengers on the Qantas Boeing 747 had to wear oxygen masks when the gaping
hole appeared in the jet 30,000ft up.

The aircraft, carrying 346 passengers and 19 crew, made an emergency landing in
Manila in the Philippines after the explosion on the Hong Kong to Melbourne leg
of the journey yesterday.

No one was injured.

Air accident investigators investigating the explosion, do not believe it was
caused by a terrorist attack.

Initial investigations suggested that a section of fuselage had separated
causing an "explosive decompression".

Passengers, who spent the night in Manila, flew on to Melbourne in a replacement
Boeing 747.

Ruben Ciron, chief of the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines said today
that the Australian Transport Safety Bureau was gathering facts about the
incident.

Boeing spokeswoman Liz Verdier said it was too soon to determine what caused the
hole, but the company was providing technical assistance to the investigation.

Mobile phone video footage posted on the internet site Youtube showed a tense
quiet punctuated only by a baby's cries as passengers sat with oxygen masks on
their faces.

Touchdown brought applause and relieved laughter.

The Boeing 747-400 was manufactured in 1991.

Aviation expert Chris Yates said: "It's quite evident that a section of the
fuselage gave way in flight."

He added: "This is not an uncommon occurrence, every year there are reports of
panels being lost from aircraft in flight and these instances are rarely, if
ever, fatal."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GAPING: The hole in the fuselage of the Qantas jumbo jet that made an
emergency landing at Manila

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 27, 2008 Sunday

Istanbul governor says 13 dead, 140 wounded in Turkey "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 281 words


At 2030 gmt, NTV carries a recording of a statement made by Istanbul Governor
Muammer Guler to the press "about half an hour ago."

Guler says: "This is a pedestrian street. A bomb previously placed in a garbage
bin in front of a bank branch exploded, after which citizens gathered in the
area. When a second bomb placed in another garbage bin 50 meters from the first
one exploded, a large number of our citizens were injured and 13 were killed.
This is an abhorrent attack. Unfortunately, the fact that the explosion took
place in a crowded place increased the number of the casualties. At present, the
wounded are being treated in various hospitals. Close to 70 persons sustained
injuries in various parts of their bodies, and all our health institutions are
exerting every possible effort to treat the wounded. An extensive investigation
is being conducted at present at the scene of the incident. There is no doubt
that this is a terrorist attack. There were two bombs, but they were not plastic
explosives. The blasts occurred with an interval of 10-12 minutes."

Governor Guler adds that the media outlets are carrying very graphic images of
the aftermath of the explosions, and asks them to desist from doing so from an
ethical viewpoint. Guler also states that these "were not suicide bombings,"
they were explosives placed in garbage bins and activated either remotely or by
means of a timer. He says that the attack was directed against innocent citizens
in a crowded place, and must be condemned as an abhorrent terrorist attack.

At 2050 gmt, the television updates the number of casualties to 13 dead and 140
wounded.

Source: NTV television, Istanbul, in Turkish 2050 gmt 27 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 27, 2008 Sunday

Turkish president, interior minister condemn "ruthless" Istanbul terror attacks

LENGTH: 87 words


Anatolia Agency in Turkish reports at 2123 gmt the reaction of President
Abdullah Gul to the explosions in Istanbul's Gungoren district as follows: "I
condemn the perpetrators of this attack which demonstrates the ruthlessness of
terrorism and its goal to engage in savagery without any regard for women, men,
the elderly or children."

At 2129 gmt the agency reports Interior Minister Besir Atalay saying: "Once
again we witnessed the ruthless face of terror."

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in Turkish 2129 gmt 27 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 28, 2008 Monday

South Africa condemns terror attacks in India

LENGTH: 137 words


Text of report by South African news agency SAPA

South Africa has "strongly condemned" the terrorism attacks in India as
unjustified, Deputy Foreign Affairs Minister Aziz Pahad said on Sunday [27
July].

"The South African government strongly condemns the attacks... terrorism is
never a justification for any so-called cause," he told a media briefing in
Pretoria.

He said more than 39 people had been killed in the attacks over the weekend and
the number of dead was expected to rise.

Agence France-Presse (AFP) has reported that India went on high alert on Sunday
after "coordinated" weekend blasts in the two major cities of Ahmedabad and
Bangalore.

Pahad said the government sent its condolences to the families of those killed
and injured in the attacks.

Source: SAPA news agency, Johannesburg, in English 1602 gmt 27 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 28, 2008 Monday

Turkish president, PM condemn terrorist attack killing 16

LENGTH: 307 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -28.07.2008 -Turkish President Abdullah Gul has condemned the bomb
attacks in Istanbul that killed 16 people and injured more than 154 others.

Releasing a message, President Gul expressed profound sorrow over killing of
innocent people in two attacks in one of Istanbul busy shopping districts.

"I condemn those who are responsible for these inhuman attacks displaying the
brutality of terrorism and targeting innocent people. I want to reiterate once
again that determination and power of our people and state will not allow those
who aim at harming our unity and tranquillity with gory acts of terror, to reach
their heinous targets. No one can reach their goals by claiming lives of
innocent people in acts of violence," he said.

President Gul offered his condolences to those who lost their beloved ones.

Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan also released a message and strongly
condemned the bomb attacks.

"I condemn these acts of terror targeting our innocent citizens on a busy avenue
at a rush hour. Those who are responsible for these attacks will be brought to
justice as soon as possible. Such attacks consolidate our determination in the
fight against terrorism. I believe that our people will give the strongest
response to these heinous attacks by strengthening their unity and solidarity,"
he said.

Meanwhile, Interior Minister Besir Atalay went from Ankara to Istanbul.

"Our fight against this merciless terrorism will continue. No one can intimidate
us," he said.

Atalay added that no one had claimed responsibility of the attacks yet.

Sixteen people including a three-year-old child were killed and 154 others were
injured in two separate bomb attacks in Gungoren neighbourhood of Istanbul on
Sunday.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0439 gmt 28 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 28, 2008 Monday
                              Correction Appended

Turkey: 15 killed and scores injured as bomb blasts hit Istanbul square: Second
device explodes amid panic of first attack: Kurd separatists suspected of '
terrorist' street strike

BYLINE: Robert Tait, Ankara

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 668 words


Turkey's political landscape was plunged further into turmoil last night when
two bomb blasts rocked a packed pedestrian square in Istanbul, killing at least
15 people and injuring about 150 in what officials called a "terrorist" attack.

In the deadliest bomb attacks in the country for almost five years, the two
explosions detonated within minutes of each other and a few metres apart, set
off by devices in rubbish bins in a busy shopping street in Gungoren, a
working-class neighbourhood in the west of the city.

The blasts underscored the divisions cutting through the country as a power
struggle between secularists and the Islamist-leaning government comes to a
head.

The ruling Justice and Development party (AKP) faces possible closure by the
constitutional court for alleged anti-secularism in a hearing that begins today.
Separately, 86 militant secularists were indicted last week for allegedly
plotting to unseat the AKP in a violent coup.

The first blast happened at about 10pm local time near a telephone booth,
causing a hail of flying glass and debris that left several people dead or
wounded.

As crowds gathered to help the injured or to see what had happened, a second
device went off near a car, killing and maiming more people.

"We know it is a terrorist attack, but which organisation is responsible - we
don't yet have that information," said Hayati Yazici, the deputy prime minister.
Early suspicion fell on Kurdish rebels, who have been responsible for countless
bomb attacks over the past 25 years; Islamist radicals have also bombed targets
in Turkey and attacked the US consulate in Istanbul less than three weeks ago.

TV footage last night showed several people on the ground apparently dead or
severely injured in pools of blood.

"Tens of people were scattered around. People's heads, arms were flying in the
air," Reuters quoted one witness as saying.

Police said the casualties from the second explosion were increased by the
numbers drawn to the scene of the earlier blast.Another witness, Huseyin
Senturk, who owns a shoe shop, said: "The first explosion was not very strong.
Several people came to see what was going on. That's when the second explosion
occurred and it injured many onlookers."

There was early speculation that the explosions may have been caused by a gas
leak but Istanbul's governor, Muammer Guler, labelled them a "terror attack". He
said the explosions had occurred within 10 or 12 minutes of each other, and that
CCTV cameras had filmed the devices being planted.

"This was a heinous attack aimed against innocent citizens and the security of
our people," Guler said.

"It did not discriminate between the young and the old, or men or women.There is
no doubt that this is a terror attack. The fact that there was a crowd in the
area has increased the number of casualties."

There was no immediate claim of responsibility, but Turkish TV quoted police
sources as saying they had received intelligence of planned attacks by the
outlawed Kurdistan Workers party (PKK), which has been blamed for previous
incidents.

The Turkish army last week stepped up attacks on PKK bases in northern Iraq.
More than 40,000 people have died in clashes between the army and the separatist
PKK since 1984.

It was Turkey's second attack this month and the worst since November 2003, when
60 people were killed in Istanbul in four blasts, blamed on al-Qaida, at the
British consulate, the HSBC bank's Turkish headquarters and two synagogues.
Gunmen killed three police officers outside the US consulate in Istanbul three
weeks ago before themselves being shot dead.

Turkey has kept up the pressure on Kurdish guerrillas in recent months and
yesterday hit 12 separatist targets in northern Iraq's Qandil region.

The PKK uses northern Iraq as a base from which to fight for an ethnic homeland
in south-east Turkey.

"The operations carried out as part of the anti-terror fight will continue with
determination both at home and abroad in accordance with military necessities,"
the army statement said.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2008 Tuesday



CORRECTION: *In one edition yesterday we carried a picture of a man injured in
bomb attacks in Istanbul with a caption that related to a photograph carried in
earlier editions, showing women leaving a mosque (15 killed and scores injured
as bomb blasts hit Istanbul square, page 13).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                              July 28, 2008 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

16 DIE IN ISTANBUL 'TERROR' ATTACKS;
154 WOUNDED AS BOMBS HIT TURKISH CITY TWO BLASTS 10 MINUTES APART IN BUSY SQUARE
POLICE POINT FINGER AT KURDISH REBEL GROUPS

BYLINE: BY EXAMINER NEWS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 361 words


TWO bombs exploded about 10 minutes apart in a crowded Istanbul square, killing
16 people and injuring 154.

It was the deadliest attack against civilians in Turkey for almost five years.

Many people were injured in the second blast after they rushed to the area to
help the casualties of the first explosion in the working-class Gungoren
neighbourhood..

A statement from the Istanbul governor's office said 15 of the wounded were in a
critical condition.

Television reports, citing security sources, said police suspected Kurdish
rebels carried out the attack.

They said intelligence reports had suggested the rebels were planning a bombing
campaign in Turkish cities.

However, officials did not accuse any specific group.

"We know it is a terrorist attack, but which organisation is responsible; we
don't yet have that information," said Deputy Prime Minister Hayati Yazici.

Kurdish, Left-wing and Islamic militants are active in Istanbul and have carried
out bombings in the city.

On July 9 gunmen believed to be inspired by al Qaida opened fire on police
guarding the US consulate in Istanbul, killing three officers. Three attackers
also died in a shootout with police.

Both last night's blasts were in a square closed to traffic where people
congregate at night.

A reporter who arrived at the scene shortly after the explosions saw at least 12
people on the ground.

Broken glass, clothing, shop dummies and other debris were strewn on the ground
and bomb squads in white overalls were inspecting the scene.

Many of the injured waited for medical treatment, their faces and bodies covered
with blood. Several people who seemed seriously wounded were carried to
ambulances.

"The first explosion was in a telephone booth," said Huseyin Senturk, who owns a
shoe shop yards away from where the blasts occurred. The second explosion was
some 40 yards away.

"The first explosion was not very strong. Several people came to see what was
going on. That's when the second explosion occurred."

The second explosion could be heard a mile away.

The Kurdistan Workers' Party has been fighting for self-rule in south-east
Turkey since 1984. The violence has killed tens of thousands of people.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AFTERMATH: Clockwise from above: An injured mother and daughter are
taken away in an ambulance; police stand guard as medics tend to the wounded;
forensic officers examine the scene of the explosions

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                              July 28, 2008 Monday

Several die in terror blasts;
A suspected terror attack has killed 13 people in two explosions in the Turkish
capital.

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


Istanbul's Governor Muammer Guler said about 70 people have been injured in last
night's explosions in the residential Gungoren district of the city.

The bombs were placed in rubbish bins in a square packed with people and went
off 10 minutes apart.

Many people were injured in the second blast after they rushed to the area to
help people following the first explosion.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 36


                      Copyright 2008 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                              July 28, 2008 Monday

Several die in terror blasts;
A suspected terror attack has killed 13 people in two explosions in the Turkish
capital.

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


Istanbul's Governor Muammer Guler said about 70 people have been injured in last
night's explosions in the residential Gungoren district of the city.

The bombs were placed in rubbish bins in a square packed with people and went
off 10 minutes apart.

Many people were injured in the second blast after they rushed to the area to
help people following the first explosion.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 36


                      Copyright 2008 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 29, 2008 Tuesday

US lawyers to sue Sudan, Iran over Kenyan terror attacks

LENGTH: 491 words


Text of report by David Mugonyi and Jeff Otieno entitled "Sudan to be sued over
Nairobi bomb attack" published by Kenyan newspaper Daily Nation website on 29
July; subheading as published

A lawsuit against terrorism that could put Kenya in an awkward position with its
trading partners is to be lodged in the United States by next week.

The suit, to be filed by a US legal firm on behalf of victims of the August 1998
bomb blast, seeks to indict Sudan and Iran.

The governments of these two countries are accused of having sponsored the
attack that left 206 Kenyans and 12 Americans dead. More than 5,000 people were
injured.

Counter-terrorism legal experts at Mann and Mairone Attorneys said the firm had
gathered enough evidence in its two-year research, linking key officials in the
governments of Sudan and Iran as the sponsors of the terrorist attack. "We have
significant evidence indicating that senior government officials of the Islamic
Republic of Sudan and Iran provided such support and finance to Al-Qai'dah and
therefore were enablers of the terrorist attack that killed and maimed hundreds
of residents of Kenya and they must be held legally liable for the death and
destruction caused," said Mr Gavriel Mairone.

He said the research was done in Arabic, Farsi, English, Spanish, Portuguese,
French, Russian, Hebrew and German.

The firm said it was approached by one of the victims of the bombing of the US
embassy, seeking its aid in the matter. And it has organised a meeting with the
victims in Kenya this week.

Medical aid

The lawsuit comes years after victims of the blast and their relatives tried to
sue the US for compensation in vain. The US argued it was not under any
obligation to compensate Kenyan victims, saying it was itself a victim and that
the Al-Qa'idah group should be held responsible. In addition, it said that it
had spent millions of dollars in helping victims seek medical aid.

However, the legal suit to be filed before 7 August will only involve Kenyans
who were employees at the American embassy.

Efforts by the law firm to pressure the US government to change its law to cater
for other Kenyan victims were fruitless.

The lawsuit comes just months after the expansion of the US law on terrorism. In
January this year, President George W. Bush signed into law an Act expanding
jurisdiction of US courts to any lawsuit against a foreign government that
sponsors terrorism filed by either a US citizen, an employee of the US
government or a contractor of the US government, who was killed or wounded by an
act of terrorism anywhere in the world.

Previously, the law permitted only United States citizens to bring lawsuits
against foreign governments in America.

Mr Mairone said the case would be filed immediately as all lawsuits must be
brought within 10 years of the incident. The 10-year period for the Nairobi
attack expires on 7 August, in under two weeks.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 29 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 29, 2008 Tuesday

Turkish terror expert warns more attacks could take place in Turkey

LENGTH: 413 words


Text of report by Italian leading privately-owned centre-left newspaper La
Repubblica, on 28 July

[Interview with Aytunc Altindal, Turkish terrorism expert, by "M. Ans."; place
and date not given: "'A Clear Signal to Whole Country, on Eve of Court's
Decisions'" - first paragraph is La Repubblica introduction]

"Everyone has an interest in destabilizing the country right now," argued Aytunc
Altindal, Turkey's top expert on terrorism, and the author of renowned essays on
international questions linked to security and defence.

[M. Ans.] Dr Altindal, who organized the attack with explosives in the Gungoren
district of Istanbul?

[Altindal] This is a time when everybody is against everybody else. It could
have been the Kurdish terrorists of the PKK, or else fundamentalist groups like
the ones who planned the July 9 action against the US consulate, which caused
nine deaths.

[M. Ans.] Is it possible that the explosion is linked to the possibility that
the Constitutional Court may decree the closure of the governing party, on the
grounds of attacking the secular Constitution?

[Altindal] Absolutely, yes. And it is also possible that in the next few hours
others may occur, including a suicide attack against Prime Minister Recep Tayyip
Erdogan.

[M. Ans.] A suicide attack against Erdogan?

[Altindal] Yes. Turkish secret services sources are getting ready to deal with
this kind of eventuality, because leaked information has emerged relating to the
possibility that this might occur.

[M. Ans.] In your opinion, what will the Constitutional Court decide?

[Altindal] It will take four or five days before the Constitutional Court makes
a decision. According to the information which I have picked up, AKP, the
Islamic party, will not be closed down. At most, it is possible that it may be
given a stiff fine, and that it may be stripped of financing. Of its 71 members
who have been cited, around 25 will be expelled.

[M. Ans.] Is Prime Minister Erdogan one of these?

[Altindal] Yes, according to my information.

[M. Ans.] So, will he lose the post of prime minister?

[Altindal] It is possible that this may happen. However, in that event, Erdogan
could stand again as an independent candidate.

[M. Ans.] Who could be a transitional prime minister? The current foreign
minister, Ali Babacan?

[Altindal] No, Ali Babacan is now in a limbo. It is much more likely that
Erdogan will be succeeded by the current parliamentary Speaker, Koksal Toptan.

Source: La Repubblica, Rome, in Italian 28 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 29, 2008 Tuesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in India

LENGTH: 200 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -Turkey has strongly condemned the terror attacks in Indian cities
of Bangalore and Ahmadabad on July 25th and 26th.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed its profound sorrow and concerns over
killing of scores of people in the serial blasts.

"Turkish people commiserate with Indian people who lost their beloved ones in
terror attacks targeting India's stability," it said.

The ministry added, "Turkey advocates on all international, regional and
bilateral events that terrorism is a crime against humanity regardless of its
source and reason. On this occasion, we reiterate once again that an influential
international cooperation is of vital importance in fight against terrorism."

The ministry also offered Turkish people's condolences to those who lost their
beloved ones in the attacks.

Forty-five people were killed and nearly 200 others were injured when at least
16 bombs went off Saturday evening in several crowded neighbourhoods of
Ahmadabad. The attack came a day after seven smaller blasts killed two people in
the southern technology hub of Bangalore.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0845 gmt 29 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 29, 2008 Tuesday

Israeli group offers rewards for killing "a Palestinian terrorist" mid-attack

LENGTH: 443 words


Text of report in English by Israeli newspaper The Jerusalem Post website on 29
July

[Report by Etgar Lefkovits: "Israeli Group Offers Financial Reward for Killing
Palestinian Terrorists During Attacks"]

An Israeli non-profit organization affiliated with the Right is offering a
financial reward to anyone who kills a Palestinian terrorist during a terror
attack, an official with the organization said Monday [28 July]. The NIS 1,800
award being offered by the Committee for Saving the Nation and Land of Israel
comes after three back-to-back attacks in Jerusalem in which an off-duty soldier
and officer as well as a civilian managed to kill the Palestinian attackers
before police did.

"This is a symbolic move and an expression of appreciation which is meant to
encourage courageous people and raise the morale of the public," said Shay
Gefen, a group official. Gefen said the organization, which was originally set
up to fight the 2005 Gaza pullout, is looking for additional sponsors around the
world in order to raise the award money to NIS 20,000. "Just as Saddam Husayn
used to fund the families of suicide bombers, we, who are concerned with life
have to give some perks to our civilians who have the courage to save people,"
Gefen said.

The organization has already sent reward money to the off-duty soldier who shot
and killed the Arab assailant in the July 2 bulldozer attack in the city. The
soldier donated the money to the family of one of the victims, Gefen said. The
group has also sent reward money to the 53-year-old Israeli settler, Yaki
Asa-El, who shot and killed the July 22 bulldozer attacker before he killed
anyone, bringing to four the number of people offered the reward since the start
of the year, he added. Asa-El could not be reached for comment on Monday.

Public Security Ministry spokeswoman Tal Yamin-Volvovitch declined comment on
the issue. But an Israel police spokeswoman said that the reward being offered
may in fact be illegal. "There is no doubt that to encourage people to kill with
the offer of reward money is an illegal act," the police spokeswoman said. She
noted that the organization was "walking a fine line" by abetting people to kill
terrorists, adding that by law only when there was a clear and present danger to
a person or persons in the area is he or she allowed to open fire.

For his part, Gefen asserted that such a reward was similar to police or
military honorary recognition for courage, and insisted that it would not lead
to people becoming trigger-happy. "There is no concern of someone shooting
another person for NIS 1,800," he said.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 29 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 29, 2008 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

AL-QAEDA CHIEF 'DIES IN ATTACK';
TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 101 words


AN al-Qaeda chemical weapons expert was reportedly killed in a US missile strike
yesterday.

Taliban officials claimed Midhat Mursi al-Sayid Umar died with six others in
Pakistan.

The US, which put a pounds 2.5million reward on his head, said it had no
confirmation he was dead.

Umar, 55, who allegedly played a key role in Osama bin Laden's efforts to
develop weapons of mass destruction, was wrongly reported killed in 2006.

The strike on militants was thought to have come from US forces after residents
reported hearing drone aircraft.

Pakistan's Maj Gen Athar Abbas said: "We're awaiting authentic information."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday

Pakistan condemns terrorist attacks in Turkey's Istanbul

LENGTH: 146 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 29 July: Pakistan on Tuesday [29 July] strongly condemned the
terrorist attacks in Istanbul on 27 July that claimed 17 lives including five
children and wounded more than 153 others.

"Such wanton terror directed against innocent civilians is a crime against
humanity," says a statement from foreign office.

The government and the people of Pakistan share the grief of Turkish brothers
over this sad incident, the statement added.

"Such cowardly acts only strengthen our resolve to eliminate the scourge of
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations."

Pakistan extended deep condolences to the people and the government of Turkey on
the tragic loss of human life and prayed for speedy recovery of the wounded.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1605gmt
29 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday

Man remanded over sectarian terror attacks in Pakistan's Quetta

LENGTH: 117 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Quetta, 29 July: Anti-Terrorism Court-I Quetta headed by judge Najeebullah Khan
granted a 10-day physical police remand of terrorist Shafiq-ur-Rehman Rind, key
accused involved in planning and executing in the recent and past series of
sectarian terror attacks in the provincial capital. Quetta police re-arrested
Shafiq Rind who belonged to banned religious organization Lashkar-i-Jangavi, on
27 July last. He had escaped from ATF jail Quetta along with his accomplice
Usman Saifullah Kurd, on 18 January 2008. Saifullah Kurd is still at large.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1603gmt
29 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday

Georgian minister dismisses separatists' "announcements" of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 156 words


Text of report by private Georgian news agency Kavkas-Press

Tbilisi, 30 July: Georgian Minister of State for Reintegration Temur
Iakobashvili has described as unserious [South] Ossetian side's accusations that
the Georgian authorities are planning terrorist attacks in Tskhinvali. He made
the statement in the break during the Georgian government meeting today.

"I like the policy of announcements, particularly implemented by the Ossetians.
As soon as they announce a terrorist attack, it takes place. If they know
everything in advance, they should, at the same time, point to the site and
actual doers," the minister of state noted.

He also said that "it is unserious to point to the Georgians each time someone
enters a toilet and is blown up there". We would remind you that it was in his
own toilet that the head of Dmenisi police, Bibilov, was blown up a couple of
weeks ago.

Source: Kavkas-Press, Tbilisi, in Russian 1452 gmt 30 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 30, 2008 Wednesday

French, Australian government condemn terror attack in Turkey's Istanbul

LENGTH: 194 words


Text of report in English by Turkish news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -29.07.2008 -French President Nicolas Sarkozy offered his
condolences over the terrorist attack in Istanbul that killed 17 and wounded
scores in a twin bombing in Istanbul, French Embassy in Ankara said in a
statement on Tuesday.

The embassy said that Sarkozy sent letters of condolences to Turkish President
Abdullah Gul and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Sarkozy said France stands together with Turkey and fully supports Turkey's
efforts on the fight against terrorism, it said.

Australia was another country to condemn the attack.

"On behalf of the Australian government, I offer my deepest sympathies to the
families of those killed and injured," Australian Foreign Minister Stephen Smith
said in a statement.

"Australia maintains its resolve to work with Turkey and the rest of the
international community in defeating terrorism wherever it occurs. Australia and
Turkey share a Memorandum of Understanding on counter terrorism, and the
Australian government values Turkey's strong commitment to counter terrorism,"
he said.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1552 gmt 29 Jul 08

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            July 30, 2008, Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

Knife maniac in cathedral;
CRIME: Terror for worshippers as attacker goes berserk

BYLINE: Gurdip Thandi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 331 words


TERRIFIED worshippers were stabbed by a knife maniac who ran amok in a
cathedral.

Two women were taken to hospital after being slashed by a man in Lichfield
Cathedral shortly before 5pm yesterday.

Police arrested a 42-year-old man from Erdington, Birmingham, and he was
sectioned under the Mental Health Act.

A 34-year-old woman from Burntwood was stabbed in the buttock in the cathedral
and shortly afterwards a 63-year-old Lichfield woman also received a slight
knife injury to her left arm as she walked along a nearby footpath, The
Windings.

The women were taken by ambulance to the Minor Injuries Unit at Good Hope
Hospital, Sutton Coldfield, where they were treated and discharged.

A man was arrested in nearby Bulldog Lane within six minutes of the incident
being reported. He was taken into custody at Burton-on- Trent police station and
later sectioned under the Mental Health Act.

Officers today said they were not looking for anyone else in connection with the
incident.

Lichfield neighbourhood policing unit commander Insp Jon Staite said: "Although
at an early stage in our investigation, this is an isolated incident.

"I'd like to thank staff at the cathedral and members of the public who swiftly
called us, and also those who came forward as witnesses for their support.

"I'd like to reassure local residents that we are investigating this crime
thoroughly.

"This type of incident is extremely rare in Lichfield and knife offences make up
a tiny fraction of all crime in Staffordshire."

The Very Rev Adrian Dorber, Dean of Lichfield Cathedral, said: "This was a very
distressing incident and we are only too grateful that prompt action by our
verging staff and Staffordshire Police prevented it from becoming any worse.

"We extend our best wishes to the two ladies who were injured.

"We understand that this is a very rare and out of the ordinary incident.

Lichfield is generally a safe and secure place to live and the cathedral will do
its best to make sure that tradition is upheld".

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK... worshippers were slashed in Lichfield Cathedral.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                             July 31, 2008 Thursday

Businesses prepare for terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 172 words


Emergency services were on hand yesterday to speak to local businesses about
what to do in the event of a terrorism attack in the city.

Shop owners and business managers were shown a presentation of a simulated
terrorism attack and were then asked questions about how they would handle it.

Police officers, firefighters and ambulance workers were all there to offer
advice.

The event was part of an ACPO - Association of Chief Police Officers -
initiative designed to help improve awareness of the terrorist threat and inform
people of what to do should they be caught up in a blast, an event made
particularly relevant following the recent explosion in Princesshay, for which
Plymouth man Nicky Reilly was arrested and charged with terrorism offences.

PC Katy King said: "We are here to give business owners advice on the procedures
that should be taken if something happens.

"In light of recent events with the bomb explosion in Exeter a couple of months
ago, it is particularly important that people know how to handle such a
situation."

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                             July 31, 2008 Thursday

Businesses prepare for terrorist attack;
Emergency services were on hand yesterday to speak to local businesses about
what to do in the event of a terrorism attack in the city.

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 150 words


Shop owners and business managers were shown a presentation of a simulated
terrorism attack and were then asked questions about how they would handle it.

Police officers, firefighters and ambulance workers were all there to offer
advice.

The event was part of an ACPO - Association of Chief Police Officers -
initiative designed to help improve awareness of the terrorist threat and inform
people of what to do should they be caught up in a blast, an event made
particularly relevant following the recent explosion in Princesshay, for which
Plymouth man Nicky Reilly was arrested and charged with terrorism offences.

PC Katy King said: "We are here to give business owners advice on the procedures
that should be taken if something happens.

"In light of recent events with the bomb explosion in Exeter a couple of months
ago, it is particularly important that people know how to handle such a
situation."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 1, 2008 Friday

Afghan paper comments on NATO's likely attack on terror bases in Pakistan

LENGTH: 303 words


Excerpt from article by Mohammad Amin Mirzad entitled: "Have attacks on
terrorist begun outside the borders" published in Afghan newspaper Daily
Afghanistan, part of the Afghanistan newspaper group on 29 July

With the intensification of political tensions between Kabul and Islamabad,
America and NATO have also increased their political pressures on Pakistan in
order to convince it to allow coalition and NATO forces to launch operations
against terror nests in Pakistan. In spite of these pressures, the government
and other Pakistani authorities have not accepted this demand. They did not
allow foreigners to step up attacks inside Pakistan.

[Pakistani President Pervez] Musharraf, in his latest reaction, said that he
would not tolerate military operations by foreign forces and consider any attack
an incursion. [Passage omitted: known details about Pakistan's reactions to
likely attacks by foreign forces]

The main question is if NATO continues secret and weak attacks on terror nests
inside Pakistan, will it attain achievements? It is clear that NATO will not
attain achievements with a silence of this kind and weak attacks on terror bases
in the North-West Frontier Province. Attacks of this kind will not yield results
but to intensify political and regional sensitivities between Afghanistan and
Pakistan.

Anyway, this question has remained unanswered, as well as the question whether
coalition forces or NATO troops launched missile attacks on Azam Warsak
yesterday or not. If they launched, why they are silent and have not yet claimed
responsibility for the attack? Have the Afghan government and the national army
taken an action of this kind?

Clear answers have not been given to these questions yet. Let's see what will be
Pakistan's reactions to them.

Source: Daily Afghanistan, Kabul, in Dari 29 Jul 08 p 4

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                             August 1, 2008 Friday

New angle to action thriller;
Vantage Point is an intricate action thriller, which replays a devastating
terrorist attack from eight perspectives to reveal the truth, one fragment at a
time.

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 116 words


Screenwriter Barry L Levy doesn't play fair,  with  coincidence and chance
nudging  the film increasingly towards implausibility. There's little chance of
figuring out the whole truth behind the subterfuge because key evidence is
withheld until the final iteration when the terrorist outrage unfolds.

Manchester-born director Pete Travis fills the screen with enough pyrotechnics
and noise to keep our eyes and ears engaged even if our brains are not,
including a well-orchestrated car chase that sees one character follow Jason
Bourne's example and emerge from twisted metal and shattered glass almost
unscathed.

Dennis Quaid, Matthew Fox, Forest Whitaker, William Hurt  and  Sigourney Weaver
star.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             August 1, 2008 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

DVD: Eight perspectives on terror attack

BYLINE: DAMON SMITH Film critic

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 627 words


Vantage Point (Cert 12, 86 mins, Sony Pictures Home Entertainment,
Action/Thriller, also available to buy DVD pounds 19.99/Blu-ray pounds 24.99)

Starring: Dennis Quaid, Matthew Fox, Forest Whitaker, William Hurt, Sigourney
Weaver, Zoe Saldana, Eduardo Noriego, Edgar Ramirez, Ayelete Zurer, Bruce
McGill.

PRESIDENT Ashton (Hurt) travels to Spain to make a keynote address on the global
threat of terrorism. As he approaches the lectern, two shots ring out and Secret
Service agents Thomas Barnes (Quaid) and Kent Taylor (Fox) rush to the
President's aid.

Thomas notices American tourist Howard Lewis (Whitaker) digitally recording the
incident.

They hastily review the footage, discovering too late that the shooter has left
another surprise for the Secret Service. Meanwhile, veteran television news
producer Rex Brooks (Weaver) watches in horror as her reporter Angie Jones
(Saldana) is caught up in the chaos. Vantage Point is an intricate
action-thriller, which replays a devastating terrorist attack from eight
perspectives to reveal the truth, one fragment at a time.

Rating: ****

Pathology (Cert 18, 93 mins, Entertainment In Video, Thriller)

Starring: Milo Ventimiglia, Michael Weston, Lauren Lee Smith, Dan Callahan,
Johnny Whitworth, Alyssa Milano, Keir O'Donnell.

Heroes star Milo Ventimiglia headlines this medical thriller from director Marc
Schoelermann and screenwriting duo Mark Neveldine and Brian Taylor. The
prognosis is gloomy: the script takes a scalpel to in-depth characterisation and
Ventimiglia struggles to get beneath the skin of his amoral (anti)-hero who gets
his kicks by playing God. Brilliant student Ted Grey (Ventimiglia) is the
wonderkid of his class at Harvard Medical School, earning himself a place on a
pathology program at Philadelphia University Hospital alongside many of the best
interns in the country. Befriended by creepy Jake Gallo (Weston) and his posse,
Ted is invited to take part in a deadly game: to kill one of the degenerates in
the local community and challenge other members of the gang to deduce the method
of execution, avoiding detection by the police and the coroner. As the stakes
are raised, Ted realises that his some of his classmates intend to make him the
next victim and he will have to use all of his guile to avoid becoming another
nametag on the mortuary slab. Pathology will appeal to fans of CSI: Crime Scene
Investigation and its ilk.

Rating: **

How She Move (Cert 12, 87 mins, Paramount Home Entertainment, Drama/Romance,
also available to buy DVD pounds 15.99)

Starring: Rutina Wesley, Tre Armstrong, Dwain Murphy, Brennan Gademans, Cle
Bennett, Kevin Duhaney.

Busting to some of the same moves as Stomp The Yard - albeit with far more urban
spit and a lot less Hollywood polish - Ian Iqbal Rashid's coming of age story
suffers a little, arriving a couple of weeks after the toned midriffs of Step Up
2 The Streets. However, despite some weak characterisation and a flabby middle
section that noticeably treads water before the adrenaline-pumping final
dance-off, How She Move has a sweetness and raw charm which is so often lacking
in the genre.

Newcomer Rutina Wesley is certainly a star of the future.

Rating: ***

P2 (Cert 18, 94 mins, High Fliers Film, Horror/Thriller)

Starring: Rachel Nichols, Wes Bentley, Philip Akin, Miranda Edwards, Jamie
Jones.

Named after the level of the subterranean multi-storey structure where most of
the film unfolds, P2 is as vacant of creativity and invention as its poorly lit
setting. Franck Khalfoun's film is gratuitously violent and brutal, not least
the horrific fate that befalls one of the co-workers of workaholic executive
Angela (Nichols), who drunkenly gropes her at the office party.

Rating: **

eatures@examiner.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TERROR STRUCK: Pandemonium breaks out when shots ring out as the US
President rises to speak about terrorism - but this is film land in the new
thriller Vantage Point featuring Matthew Fox, William Hurt and Dennis Quaid

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             August 1, 2008 Friday

Fanatics solely to blame for 9/11 terror attacks

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 325 words


Incredibly, he states that the US "only has itself to blame" for the attack on
the World Trade Centre.

Is Mr Job so prejudiced against the US that he is unable see that responsibility
for this attack lies solely with the fanatics who carried it out?

President Bush has had many false charges levelled against him in the past eight
years. But to accuse him of having us believe that people "undertake suicide
attacks for fun" certainly reaches a new low. Perhaps I missed that particular
press conference?

Mr Job describes the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq as "atrocities." The
invasion of Afghanistan was warranted as a direct response to the attack on the
Twin Towers. And now, after five difficult years, the people of Iraq have at
least the possibility of freedom and democratic rule as a direct result of US
actions in their country.

What was Iraq's future before the "atrocity" of the US invasion? Indefinite fear
and horror under a vicious dictator who was most likely to be succeeded by his
even more vicious and brutal sons.

As for Mr Job's reference to the "principled defenders" of their homeland, I
don't see anything principled about

Al Qaeda's deliberate targeting of civilians and sundry beheadings, which has
been their modus operandi from the beginning.

The US-backed Iraqi army now numbers 350,000 soldiers who are the real
"principled defenders" of their homeland. And yes, Mr Job, more and more Al
Qaeda 'martyrs' are being created as a result.

That is usually what happens to the enemy when a war is being prosecuted with
some degree of success, as is now the case in Iraq.

Incidentally, according to a July 5

Associated Press report, the US removed 550 metric tons of concentrated natural
uranium from Iraq over the previous month.

Now, I don't know about Mr Job, but dare I say this sounds suspiciously like the
material for weapons of mass destruction that harmless old Saddam didn't
possess?

James McGrath

Birchgrove

Hollyford

Co Tipperary

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             August 1, 2008 Friday

Turning up the heat with desert funk;
A band formed while its members were backpacking in Bali during the terrorist
attacks of 2002 are now sharing the unique "desert funk" they have developed
with audiences across the UK.

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 127 words


Esteban hung out together around camp fires, exchanging thoughts about the world
and its ways. The songs they have written together are drenched in addictive pop
hooks, socially aware lyrics, Latin beats and funk.

Their brand of world music has been compared to artists as diverse as
Jamiroquai, Bob Marley, The Police and Red Hot Chilli Peppers. Their debut
release, Santiago, is the first of a series of four-track EPs produced by The
Animal Farm, producers of One Night Only, Rosalita and Ejectorseat.

Esteban play at Finn McCouls, Falmouth, on August 4, Tywarnhayle, Perranporth,
on August 5, Walkabout, Newquay, on August 6, Bar 200, Truro, on August 7,
Voodoo Lounge, Plymouth, on August 8, Nicals, Bodmin, on August 9 and The
Phoenix, Plymouth, on August 22

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             August 1, 2008 Friday

Turning up the heat with desert funk;
A band formed while its members were backpacking in Bali during the terrorist
attacks of 2002 are now sharing the unique "desert funk" they have developed
with audiences across the UK.

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 127 words


Esteban hung out together around camp fires, exchanging thoughts about the world
and its ways. The songs they have written together are drenched in addictive pop
hooks, socially aware lyrics, Latin beats and funk.

Their brand of world music has been compared to artists as diverse as
Jamiroquai, Bob Marley, The Police and Red Hot Chilli Peppers. Their debut
release, Santiago, is the first of a series of four-track EPs produced by The
Animal Farm, producers of One Night Only, Rosalita and Ejectorseat.

Esteban play at Finn McCouls, Falmouth, on August 4, Tywarnhayle, Perranporth,
on August 5, Walkabout, Newquay, on August 6, Bar 200, Truro, on August 7,
Voodoo Lounge, Plymouth, on August 8, Nicals, Bodmin, on August 9 and The
Phoenix, Plymouth, on August 22

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 2, 2008 Saturday

Tanzanian Islamic weekly blames USA for 1998 terror attacks in east Africa

LENGTH: 1471 words


Text of commentary by Omar Msangi entitled "Ten years on, who attacked the
American embassy, and what was the aim?" published by Tanzanian weekly Islamic
newspaper An-Nuur on 1 August

It is almost 10 years since the terrorist bombing of the US embassies in both
Dar es Salaam and Nairobi. The two attacks, which happened simultaneously
between 1030 and 1100 a.m. [0730 and 0800 gmt], killed some 213 people and
injured more than 5,000 others in Nairobi, while in Dar es Salaam 12 people died
and 186 others injured. Using the number of deaths and extent of injuries, this
was a major terrorist attack. Honestly, it was a very frightening experience.

So while we mark the 10th anniversary of these attacks, the question is: who was
responsible, what were their motives?

Moments after the attacks, even before the investigations had started, the
American government said that the main culprit was Usamah Bin Ladin and
Al-Qai'dah. This is the song that the media continues to sing today. No-one
questioned the evidence or demanded that the US provides it. Most of the
journalists didn't question the statements made by the White House and Pentagon.
They even went ahead and say that the suspects were Muslims and that the attacks
had Islamic blessings. The journalist Lawrence Wright claimed that the attack on
the Nairobi embassy had been code-named "Operation Kaaba", while that of Dar es
Salaam was known as "Operation Al-Aqsa." Both are names of key holy mosques.
This was an effort by the reporter to emphasize that the culprits were Muslims.

What followed was the unending arrest of Muslims, including Tanzania's Ahmed
Khalfan Ghailan who is still being tortured in Guantanamo.

However, who was exactly involved in the attacks? Who was responsible for the
murder of 213 Kenyans and 12 Tanzanians? Since the USA is the complainant,
prosecutor, witness, and judge it might not become clear who was involved, or
their motives, since this could expose some American secrets. There are some
things if examined could cast light on the attacks on Nairobi and Dar es Salaam.

Michel Chossudovsky has authored a book by the name Al-Qai'dah and the "War on
Terrorism" [book title in English throughout] (20 January 2008). The first
edition was published in Italian and termed the statement by the American
government on 11 September as one full of lies. (Why the Official Version on
9/11 is a Falsehood [insertion in English]). In his book, America's War on
Terrorism (2005), Chossudovsky starts by stating that the purpose of the
propaganda by the American government was to create an enemy, a foreign enemy.
An enemy like Usamah Bin Laden cannot tolerate the USA. He says that in this
war, the truth is always turned upside down to such an extent that you cannot
distinguish it from the lies. (Michel Chossudovsky is a professor of economics
at the University of Ottawa, Canada; a famous author of an international
best-seller known as America's "War on Terrorism". He is also the director of
Centre for Research on Globalization [name of organization in English].)

Come 11 September, he says, the USA identified through its propaganda that
Usamah and Al-Qai'dah were the main suspects and the enemy. He notes that this
very Al-Qai'dah was created by the CIA in the fight against the USSR in
Afghanistan. Professor Chossudovsky presents his evidence saying that, since
1979 the American government had through the CIA started a huge operation of
creating a Mujahidin force that could be used to fight the Soviets. Using some
Arab governments and Pakistan, some 35,000 Muslim youth underwent military
training in various camps, while the Pakistani intelligence body, ISI, was the
link between the CIA and Al-Qai'dah's commanders.

Let it be known that these Muslim youths sacrificed themselves for a jihad meant
to defend fellow Muslims. They didn't know what was going on between the CIA and
the ISI. As a result, by 1992, thousands of Muslims from some 40 countries had
received training under Al-Qai'dah on the use of various weapons and the making
of bombs. Money was not a problem since the budget was being controlled from
Washington. Therefore, the USA knows what Al-Qai'dah is since those on its list,
those who trained under Al-Qai'dah, passed through the hands of both the CIA and
ISI. It seems that when you want to do something, you blame it somebody else.
What America doesn't say is that all these are graduates of its camps.

Examining the relationship between Al-Qai'dah and the CIA, Prof Chossudovsky
said that in 1998, Mr Zbigniew Brzezinski, who was the national security adviser
of President Jimmy Carter, confirmed that it was the CIA that created and worked
with Al-Qai'dah immediately the Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan on 24 December
1979. The USA didn't want to confront the Soviets directly, but it saw it fit to
use people inspired by their faith and religion to fight the Russians since
these would not get tired. It is President Carter who signed the secret order
that approved American assistance to the Mujahidin.

On the other hand, he goes on to say that, after America created the terrorist
organisation to do its evil work, and after spreading frightening propaganda on
deadly threats, events like attacks on its embassies in Nairobi and Dar es
Salaam had to take place, same as 11 September so that it could be seen that
terrorism continued to thrive. Chossudovsky dismisses as rubbish claims that the
attacks of 11 September on Washington and New York were the work of Al-Qai'dah.
He adds that the lying includes statements on the London bombings, claims of
plots to attack planes by people with no passports, tickets or travel plans.

Statements on these actual events are planned and effected by America itself and
are meant to garner support for its military adventures against certain people
and countries. What happened on 11 September or the attacks on the American
embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam frightened the world, especially
Americans. Afterwards America got huge support when it announced that it would
deal militarily with the perpetrators of the attacks. (See: Fabricated
Intelligence for Political Gain-2006, also check Sheila Copps, Edmonton Sun, 13
August 2006 [Source in English])

This is like what happened during Operation Northwoods (US false flag conspiracy
[Source in English]) of 1962 in which America planned attacks against its
civilians, including shootings, and bombing of its ships and planes, and then
claim that Cuba was planning to invade it. Under such circumstances, you can see
it is hard to know what exactly happened on 7 August 1998 at the American
embassies in Dar es Salaam and Nairobi. Who was involved, and what were their
aims? Like I said, the truth will become clear the moment top secret [preceding
two words in English] documents or "classified information" [preceding two words
in English] are declassified. Let me conclude by saying that if you leave it to
them, you will never know what happened.

The American warship USS Liberty was attacked by Israel, but the blame was
directed towards Egypt so as to give the USA the opportunity to attack [then
Egyptian President] Abd-al Nasir. Various Israeli reports showed that some 34
soldiers died during the 8 June 1957 attack on the American ship, USS Liberty
H01, by Israeli soldiers. Reports said that this was the worst attack, but
termed it an accident. A commission appointed by President Lyndon Johnson and
then [US] Secretary of Defence Robert McNamara termed the attack an accident
since the Israeli soldiers had mistaken it for an enemy ship. This is now being
revealed by then senior people in the American military like retired Capt Ward
Boston and Admiral Thomas Moore, who was the then chairman of the US joint
chiefs of staff, and who spend a whole year investigating the issue. Moore
concluded that the attack on USS Liberty had been "one of the classic
all-American cover-ups" [words in quotation marks in English].

However, this was not the end of comments by this retired military officer. At
one time during an interview with the media, he wondered why the American
government seemed more concerned with Israeli interests than those of the
American citizens.

This has been discussed by the writer Peter Hounam who says that what emerges is
a conspiracy plotted by the American government together with the Israeli
soldiers to perpetrate the attack so that it can get the excuse to attack Egypt
on Israel's behalf. Hounam added that the conspiracy was code-named "Operation
Cyanide".

In conclusion, there are some people who want to continue singing the American
song of Al-Qai'dah's role in the attack on Dar es Salaam embassy. Let them
continue singing. Those with brains should however, ponder on "Operation
Northwood" and "Operation Cyanide."

Source: An-Nuur, Dar es Salaam, in Swahili 1 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            August 2, 2008 Saturday

Man tells of terror in brutal city-centre attack

BYLINE:  Tanya Holden

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 368 words


A Cyclist has described how he was attacked after acting as a Good Samaritan in
the city centre.

The 43-year-old man stopped his bike when he noticed a man shouting racist abuse
at two Asian women in St Peter's Gate.

He asked the man to stop, but was then attacked and left with horrific injuries.
He has a broken cheek bone and had to have three metal plates inserted in his
face after the  incident close to the  Flying Horse arcade.

"It was a horrific racially motivated attack," said the man, who does not want
to be named.

"I was terrified. It has left me feeling very frightened and vulnerable.".

The victim, from the Arboretum area, described how his attacker turned on him as
he tried to intervene.

"He turned around, saw me and began swearing at me," he said.  "He was telling
me to go down an alleyway with him for a fight, but I just turned my bike round.
The next thing I knew he had punched me in the right side of my face and I fell
off my bike.

"He then kicked me in the same side of the face while I was lying on the floor."

The victim was taken to the Queen's Medical Centre where he remained for three
days.

On Monday he had surgery to insert three titanium plates into his cheek bone,
which was broken in three places. He has also been left with double vision
following the assault.

"When I went home at the weekend I decided to go for a walk - but I was just
terrified," he said.  "I have lost all my confidence."

The attacker is described as white, slim, aged 25 to 30.   He had brown short
hair and sideburns, stubble, and sharp facial features. He was wearing a black
cotton round-necked T-shirt, with a faded logo on the chest.

Police are keen to trace the two women who were involved in the initial
incident, at around 4.4.0pm on Thursday July 24.  They are both  Asian, aged 30
to 35,  and were wearing brightly-coloured traditional clothing.

A police spokesperson said: "This is a busy thoroughfare in the city centre, and
many people would have been finishing work, and heading home.

"We need to speak to anyone who may have witnessed this attack, or who knows who
this man is."

Call PC Mark Beardsmore   on 0115 967 0999 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

tanya.holden@nottinghameveningpost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2008 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            August 2, 2008 Saturday

Man tells of terror in brutal city-centre attack;
A Cyclist has described how he was attacked after acting as a Good Samaritan in
the city centre.

BYLINE: Tanya Holden

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 352 words


The 43-year-old man stopped his bike when he noticed a man shouting racist abuse
at two Asian women in St Peter's Gate.

He asked the man to stop, but was then attacked and left with horrific injuries.
He has a broken cheek bone and had to have three metal plates inserted in his
face after the  incident close to the  Flying Horse arcade.

"It was a horrific racially motivated attack," said the man, who does not want
to be named.

"I was terrified. It has left me feeling very frightened and vulnerable.".

The victim, from the Arboretum area, described how his attacker turned on him as
he tried to intervene.

"He turned around, saw me and began swearing at me," he said.  "He was telling
me to go down an alleyway with him for a fight, but I just turned my bike round.
The next thing I knew he had punched me in the right side of my face and I fell
off my bike.

"He then kicked me in the same side of the face while I was lying on the floor."

The victim was taken to the Queen's Medical Centre where he remained for three
days.

On Monday he had surgery to insert three titanium plates into his cheek bone,
which was broken in three places. He has also been left with double vision
following the assault.

"When I went home at the weekend I decided to go for a walk - but I was just
terrified," he said.  "I have lost all my confidence."

The attacker is described as white, slim, aged 25 to 30.   He had brown short
hair and sideburns, stubble, and sharp facial features. He was wearing a black
cotton round-necked T-shirt, with a faded logo on the chest.

Police are keen to trace the two women who were involved in the initial
incident, at around 4.4.0pm on Thursday July 24.  They are both  Asian, aged 30
to 35,  and were wearing brightly-coloured traditional clothing.

A police spokesperson said: "This is a busy thoroughfare in the city centre, and
many people would have been finishing work, and heading home.

"We need to speak to anyone who may have witnessed this attack, or who knows who
this man is."

Call PC Mark Beardsmore   on 0115 967 0999 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

tanya.holden@nottinghameveningpost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2008 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2008 Monday

Xinjiang terrorists suspected in deadly attack against Chinese policemen

LENGTH: 436 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

[Updated version: adding Urgent tag, rewriting subject line; Xinhua: "3rd Ld:
Police Station Raided in West China's Xinjiang, Terrorist plot Suspected"]

URUMQI, Aug. 4 (Xinhua) - The raid on a border armed police division, which
killed 16 policemen and injured 16 others, in northwest China's Xinjiang Uighur
Autonomous Region Monday morning, was suspected as a terrorist attack, according
to police.

The public security department in Xinjiang confirmed that the raid occurred in
the front of the Yijin Hotel, which is at the right side of the police division
yard in China's western most city of Kashi, 1,400 km southwest of Xinjiang's
capital Urumqi.

Two attackers drove a tip lorry to hit a team of policemen who were jogging
through the street in a morning exercise at about 8:00 a.m., police witnesses
said.

Fourteen policemen were killed on the spot and two others died on the way to
hospital.

The two attackers got off the lorry after the vehicle veered to hit a roadside
wire pole. They threw home-made explosives to the barracks, causing explosion.
They also hacked the policemen with knives.

The police said the two attackers had been arrested, and one got a leg injury in
the raid.

Police found debris of five explosives in the division yard.

The regional public security department said it had got intelligence that the
"East Turkistan Islamic Movement" planned to make terrorist attacks during Aug.
1-8, just ahead of the opening of the Olympic Games in Beijing.

Chinese police foiled an attempted sabotage instigated and conducted by the
"Eastern Turkistan" separatists on board a Southern Airlines flight in March.
Three suspects detained by police fully admitted that the attack was
masterminded.

The "East Turkistan Islamic Movement" was one of the main security worries to
the Olympics, which also include separatist forces for "Tibet independence", and
the Falun Gong cult, according to Tian Yixiang, a senior PLA commander and also
a security chief for the Games.

Kurexi Maihesuti, vice chairman of Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region Government,
told a press conference in Beijing last week that Xinjiang police had cracked
five terrorism groups in the first half of 2008, detaining 82 suspected
terrorists who allegedly plotted sabotage against the Olympics.

The Olympic Games would be a target for various anti-China and hostile forces,
which are trying every possible way to sabotage the event, Vice Minister of
Public Security Yang Huanning said last month.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0657 gmt 4 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2008 Monday

Terrorist plot suspected in violent attack on police in China's Xinjiang

LENGTH: 592 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

URUMQI, Aug. 4 (Xinhua) - Two suspects, who carried out violent attack on border
police in China's western city of Kashi, Xinjiang, were identified as two Uighur
men, aged 28 and 33, respectively, said the local police.

The attackers were detained on the spot, after killing at least 16 policemen and
injuring 16 others outside the gate of the Kashi border police division.

The Karshi police said that one of the attackers drove a tip lorry to hit a team
of more than 70 policemen who were jogging to pass the Yiquan Hotel in a regular
morning exercise at about 8:00 a.m. In the meantime, the other suspect threw an
explosive towards the gate of the station.

The driver then abandoned the lorry to throw explosive at the policemen, after
the vehicle veered to knock on a roadside wire pole, said the Kashi police.

The police confirmed that the driver blew up one of his arms after igniting the
home-made explosive.

Police found 10 home-made explosives, a home-made hand gun and four knives from
the vehicle.

The Yiquan Hotel is more than 100 meters away from the police station, Xinhua
correspondent reported from Kashi.

He said he saw blood stain left on the sidewalk, although the accident site had
been cleaned by police. He also saw a broken wire pole and three tree stubs left
from the accident.

No civilians were hurt in the attack so far.

Customers in the Yiquan Hotel said that they thought it was a blast, when they
were wakened up by an explosion from outside.

"The ploy of the bloody crime resembles some previous terrorist attempts carried
out by 'Eastern Turkistan' separatists, which were foiled by Chinese police,"
said Li Wei, director of the Centre for Counter-Terrorism Studies with the China
Institute of Contemporary International Relations in an interview with Xinhua.

Li said similar raids had been plotted by the separatists, which were targeted
on public security staff.

Sun Weide, a media official with the organizing committee of the Beijing Games,
said that the organizing committee will contact Xinjiang police over the
incident.

He said that China had prepared to handle any threats to ensure the Games safe
with the help from the international community.

The Xinjiang regional public security department said it had got intelligence
that the "East Turkistan Islamic Movement" planned to make terrorist attacks
during Aug. 1-8, just ahead of the opening of the Olympic Games in Beijing.

Chinese police foiled an attempted sabotage instigated and conducted by the
"Eastern Turkistan" separatists on board a Southern Airlines flight in March.
Three suspects detained by police admitted that the attack was masterminded.

The "East Turkistan Islamic Movement" was one of the main security worries to
the Olympics, which also include separatist forces for "Tibet independence", and
the Falun Gong cult, according to Tian Yixiang, a senior PLA commander and also
a security chief for the Games.

Kurexi Maihesuti, vice chairman of Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Regional
Government, told a press conference in Beijing last week that Xinjiang police
had cracked five terrorism groups in the first half of 2008, detaining 82
suspected terrorists who allegedly plotted sabotage against the Olympics.

The Olympic Games would be a target of various anti-China and hostile forces,
which are trying every possible means to sabotage the event, Vice Minister of
Public Security Yang Huanning said last month.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1243 gmt 4 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday

Weapons in China's Xinjiang attack resemble those of East Turkistan terrorists

LENGTH: 341 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

[Updated version: adding Urgent tag, upgrading precedence, rewriting subject
line; Xinhua: "Weapons in Xinjiang Attack Resembled Those of East Turkistan
Terrorists'"]

URUMQI, Aug. 5 (Xinhua) - The gun and explosives found at the site of the fatal
attack on policemen in Kashi City were similar to those used by East Turkistan
terrorists, Xinjiang public security authority said Tuesday.

Police found nine home-made explosive items and a home-made gun at the site of
the suspected terrorist attack that left at least 16 border policemen dead and
16 others injured on Monday morning in Kashi City, Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous
Region in northwest China.

The explosives and the gun were similar to those found by Xinjiang police at a
training base of the "East Turkistan Islamic Movement" in a crackdown in
January, 2007, according to the autonomous regional public security bureau.

Two knives and some propaganda posters advocating the "holy war" were also
discovered at the site of the attack, just 100 metres away from the Kashi border
police division, the bureau said in a statement released on Tuesday.

The statement said the two suspects, who were arrested on the spot, lived in
Kashi City.

One of the suspects is a taxi driver and the other a vegetable peddler, and the
attack had been premeditated, the bureau said, citing initial investigation
results.

One of the attackers drove a truck to ram into a team of more than 70 policemen
who were jogging during a regular exercise at about 8:00 a.m.

The driver and the other attacker also threw explosives at the team and the gate
of the station.

Road checks have been strengthened across Xinjiang and the local authorities in
Kashi have ordered a full security alert in public places including government
office buildings, schools and hospitals.

The Spanish government and the United States have expressed their strongest
condemnation of the bloody attack.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 0709 gmt 5 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday

Ugandan police says Makerere University susceptible to terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 179 words


Excerpt from report by Francis Kagolo entitled: ''Kayihura cautions MUK on
terrorism'' published by Ugandan newspaper The New Vision website on 5 August

Makerere University officials should design ways of guarding against terrorist
attacks. Police chief Maj-Gen Kale Kayihura on Sunday [3 August] told
journalists at the campus that the institution was a clear target for terrorists
and arsonists due to its huge population.

He decried lack of fire extinguishers in the halls, saying it exposed students
to death in case fire broke out.

The administrators, Kayihura suggested, needed to put in place tighter crime
prevention measures like installing closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras for
surveillance.

He added that they should also follow the guidelines on preventing crime in
schools that the police issued last month.

"Security must be boosted at the campus and in students' halls of residence,"
Kayihura said shortly after addressing a seminar of the Uganda National Guild
Presidents' Council.

[Passage omitted]

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 5 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday

Pakistan tribal peace council chief survives terror attack

LENGTH: 115 words


Excerpt from report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Peshawar [North-West Frontier Province], 5 August: Chief of Peace Committee in
Jandola, South Waziristan Agency [tribal area], Tuesday [5 August] survived life
attempt when a remote-controlled bomb blast blew up his vehicle on Tank-Wana
Road.

According to official sources, some unknown miscreants attacked vehicle of
Turkistan Khan, chief of peace committee, with remote-controlled bomb but he
remained unhurt. Security forces immediately sealed off the area and closed the
Tank-Wana highway for traffic.

[Passage omitted]

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1211gmt
05 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday

Hong Kong paper urges cities to strengthen guard against terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 701 words


Text of report by Hong Kong newspaper Wen Wei Po website on 5 August

[Editorial: "One is Secure in Knowledge That One is Prepared for Attack, Not
That Attack Will Not Come"]

We are now three days away from the opening of the Beijing Olympic Games but
Xinjiang's Kashgar frontier defence detachment yesterday [4 August] came under a
terrorist attack that killed 16 Armed Police officers and wounded another 16.
This was an incident of terrorist attack elaborately planned, organized, and
carried out by terrorist forces. It should be strongly condemned because it was
carried out in a brutal manner, caused heavy casualties, made a very bad
impression, and caused a shock and indignation among people. The incident
reflects that we have entered a high-risk period for terrorist attacks directed
against the Beijing Olympic Games. The host and co-host cities of the Olympic
Games and other cities in the inland should all draw a lesson from it, heighten
vigilance, and strengthen the guard to make it impossible for terrorists to have
their way. Hong Kong, being an international metropolis and the ground of the
Olympic equestrian events, is extremely prone to become a target of attacks
launched by terrorists. The authorities should reassess Hong Kong's security
measures and get ready emergency plans for coping with various unexpected
incidents.

The terrorist organization "Islamic Party of Turkistan" released a video clip a
few days ago, claiming to be the black hand behind four fatal explosions in the
inland this year and threatening to launch terrorist attacks on Beijing and the
Olympic co-host cities. Although the inland once denied the explosions had to do
with terrorist activities, international antiterrorism experts pointed out that
the threat of terrorist attacks was credible and must be treated seriously. The
terrorist attack that took place yesterday in Xinjiang shows that the threat of
terrorist attacks has come true. Therefore, not only that antiterrorism should
not be played down but we must also heighten vigilance and attach high
importance to security nationwide to prevent terrorist attacks.

Master Sun's Art of War points out: "One is secure in the knowledge that one is
prepared for an attack and not that an attack will not come." This also applies
to security work for the Olympic Games; we must not place our hopes on
terrorists not coming to assault but rely on our being fully prepared and
remaining in combat readiness. Indications show that terrorists probably will
launch attacks in cities and regions with relatively lax security when they
cannot succeed in cities with tight security. Therefore, we must be on guard
against terrorists giving up difficult targets for easy ones and seizing the
opportunity to attack cities lacking in the sense of precaution or even attempt
to divert police personnel from garrisoning key cities so they may break through
at the weak points.

Hong Kong is an international metropolis and transportation hub with convenient
entry and exit and large streams of people of all kinds. During the Olympic
equestrian competitions, furthermore, members of the royal and noble families of
quite a few countries and regions will come to Hong Kong as spectators. As Hong
Kong has never come under a terrorist attack for the past 100 years and more,
the residents are not at all psychologically prepared and do not know how to
guard against one. If a terrorist attack really takes place, it will not only
make them panic and not know what to do but also deal a severe blow to
international travellers' confidence in coming to Hong Kong for tours and
adversely affect Hong Kong's economic development. The authorities should
further assess Hong Kong's security measures. The police and Immigration
Department should strictly monitor suspicious people entering our territory;
carry out proper, careful precautionary measures; strengthen the atmosphere of
security; and increase deterrence to terrorists to ensure secure, smooth Olympic
equestrian competitions. At the same time, the authorities should have emergency
plans for reducing confusion and losses in the event of a terrorist attack.

Source: Wen Wei Po website, Hong Kong, in Chinese 5 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday

East Turkestan group denies attack on Chinese police is terrorism

LENGTH: 529 words


Text of report by Hong Kong newspaper South China Morning Post website on 5
August

[Report by Minnie Chan: "East Turkestan Movement Says Oppression Fuels Unrest";
headline as provided by source]

The attack on armed police officers in Kashgar, Xinjiang, yesterday was part of
an "armed struggle" by Uighurs who had suffered under Chinese rule, said a
spokesman for the banned East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM).

Dilxadi Rexiti, of the exiled East Turkestan Information Centre, based in
Germany, said he would not describe yesterday's incident as a terrorist attack.

"I don't think the attack was a terrorist plot," he said. "It is an armed
struggle and this is in response to the persistent suppression by the Chinese
government in the region. It is groundless to accuse ETIM of the attack. On the
contrary, it is the Chinese government's autocratic measures in Xinjiang that
should be blamed."

No group has claimed responsibility for the attack, in which at least 16 armed
policemen were killed. But Xinhua quoted the Xinjiang Public Security Department
saying it had received intelligence that ETIM planned to launch terrorist
attacks during the first week of August -ahead of the opening of the Olympic
Games in Beijing .

Two weeks ago, the Washington-based terrorism intelligence firm IntelCentre
released a video by a group calling itself Turkestan Islamic Party, which
claimed responsibility for explosions in Yunnan and Shanghai and attacks in
other mainland cities . In the video, an armed man said the group would strike
cities hosting Olympic events.

Mr Rexiti distanced ETIM from the video yesterday, and accused Beijing of
manufacturing propaganda to demonise the group.

"The accusation by the Chinese government (that ETIM plans to launch terrorist
attacks) is aiming to smear and isolate the Uighurs in the international
community, and is an attempt to blacken (the name of) Uighurs as an ethnic group
of terrorists," he said. "Frankly speaking, we want a boycott of the Beijing
Olympics, but we never oppose the peaceful Olympic sprit. Indeed, I should
reaffirm that we Uighurs would not engage in any terrorist activities."

China, the US and the United Nations deem ETIM a terrorist group.

He was worried there could be more such attacks if Beijing refused to improve
human rights in Xinjiang.

"Strictly speaking, we are sorry to see what's happened. And we are also very
worried because we see that suppression by the Chinese authorities has now
forced peace-loving Uighurs to take the path of armed struggle against the
authorities." He said the attackers targeted armed police because of persistent
hostility.

"The Uighur people do not feel safe, even at home, as police and armed police
can raid their houses and take anyone away. And many Uighurs have been tortured
by police when in custody."

Some Uighurs in Beijing said they had been discriminated against and were under
strict monitoring ahead of the Olympics, Cable TV reported in Hong Kong, citing
a survey by an economics professor that found about 90 per cent of hotels in
Beijing had refused to serve people who appeared to be Muslim.

Source: South China Morning Post website, Hong Kong, in English 5 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday

Official in China's Xinjiang terms blast "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 913 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

[Xinhua "China Focus": "Xinjiang Official Calls Monday's Raidon Border Police a
Terrorist Attack"]

Kashi, Aug. 5 (Xinhua) - An official of Kashi Prefecture in northwest China's
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region said on Tuesday the raid on Kashi border police
a day earlier was a terrorist attack.

The attack had been planned in advance, Shi Dagang, Communist Party secretary of
Kashi, told a press conference held in Kashi on Tuesday afternoon.

The two suspects, caught at the scene, had confessed their crime, Liu Yaohua,
head of the public security department of Xinjiang, said at a press conference
held in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang.

The two, both locals of Kashi, were identified as Abdurahman Azat, a 33-year-old
vegetable peddler, and Kurbanjan Hemit, a 28-year-old taxi driver, Shi said in
Kashi.

The two suspects said in their confession they had closely observed the time and
route the Kashi border police used for morning runs for more than a month before
Monday's attack.

Police also found nine home-made explosive devices at the scene (two were
detonated during the attack), along with other weapons.

The weapons were similar to those found by Xinjiang police at a training base of
the "East Turkistan Islamic Movement" (ETIM) in a crackdown on Dec. 25, 2007,
according to the police.

Shi said the two had written in documents prepared beforehand that the attack
was more important than their lives or those of their mothers, so they had to
wage "holy war".

The explosive devices and weapons held by the two suspects and the crime they
committed all indicated violent intent, Shi said.

"For these two people, it is very clear that they are part of violent terrorist
forces, and they have carried out a terrorist attack," he added.

The Kashi police said one of the attackers drove a truck towards a team of more
than 70 police who were jogging past the Yiquan Hotel in a regular morning
exercise at about 8:00 a.m.

At the same time, the other suspect threw an explosive towards the gate of the
station and brandished a knife at the police who had been run over by the truck.

The attackers were detained on the spot after killing at least 16 policemen and
injuring 16 others.

The two suspects said the truck used in the raid was stolen and parked near the
Kashi border police division the night before the deadly attack.

One of them stayed on watch and informed the other by cellphone when the border
police went out for the morning run. The latter drove at full speed towards the
policemen from behind, according to the account.

Of the 16 injured, four were seriously hurt and two remain in critical
condition, Shi said.

"We will go all out to save the injured policemen, and the best medical staff
has been arranged to treat them," he pledged.

Shi said relatives of those killed in the accident had been informed
immediately, and some have arrived in Kashi. He said 16 working teams had been
set up, one for each victim's family.

Liu said Monday's deadly attack had caused no panic among local residents.

"Residents in Xinjiang are confident of social stability, as they are very clear
of the power of police against opposing forces."

Police tightened security checks in Xinjiang after the attack.

Authorities in Kashi reinforced the police presence at road entries to the city
on Monday afternoon and ordered a full security alert in public places including
government office buildings, schools and hospitals.

Police demanded bag checks from passengers passing through road checkpoints and
got on vehicles to carry out security checks.

In Urumqi, the regional capital, special police used wireless ID checking
devices in routine street patrols. Such digital devices can trace ID data
through the police network and send out alerts if an ID matches that of a
suspect at large.

Liu also said there is no evidence showing that Monday's attack was related to
the ETIM, but promised to continue to report the progress of the investigation.

"No sufficient evidence has been found to say for sure that ETIM was behind
Monday's deadly attack," Liu told reporters.

Xinjiang police have arrested 18 members of the ETIM so far this year, as
overseas organizations plotted to destroy the Beijing Olympics, Shi said in
Kashi.

All the 18 arrested had been trained overseas, he said.

He said the ETIM group claimed it would launch a terrorist attack every month at
the beginning of the year and had sent seven instructions to terrorist forces
inside China.

"They are trying to turn 2008 into a year of mourning and a year of terror," Shi
said.

In two statements posted on the Internet on June 26 and 27, the ETIM group had
instigated residents in northwest China to wage holy war against local
authorities with explosions and poison, he said.

The group had also used the Internet to teach domestic terrorist forces how to
carry out attacks and make explosives.

Also on Tuesday, Sun Weide, a media official of the Beijing Organizing Committee
of the 29th Olympic Games, said Beijing is prepared to respond to all kinds of
security threats and has the confidence and capability to host a safe Olympic
Games.

"We are confident and capable of holding a safe Olympic Games under the
leadership of the Chinese government and with the help of the international
community," he said.

He stressed that security is the "foundation and a key part" of a successful
Olympic Games.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1526 gmt 5 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

16 die in pre-Olympic terror attack on police barracks;
INTERNATIONAL

BYLINE: Richard Harris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 532 words


Two suspected Islamic terrorists killed 16 Chinese police officers in a surprise
attack on their barracks yesterday.

The men drove a dumper truck into a group of officers on their morning exercise
jog, then threw explosives before attacking with knives in the troubled Central
Asian border region.

The attack in Xinjiang province came just four days before the start of the
Olympics which at least one militant Muslim group has vowed to disrupt.

The attackers struck at 8am, ploughing into the police outside the Yijin Hotel
next to their paramilitary border patrol station in Kashgar city.

Fourteen died on the spot and two others en route to a hospital while at least
16 others were wounded. Police arrested both attackers.

The attack was one of the deadliest and most audacious in recent years in the
area where local Muslims have waged a rebellion against Chinese rule.

Kashgar, or Kashi in Chinese, is a tourist city that was once an oasis trading
centre on the Silk Road caravan routes and lies 80 miles from the border with
Pakistan, Afghanistan and Kyrgyzstan.

China has been on edge for months after a number of foiled plots by Muslim
separatists and a series of bombings around China in the run-up to the Olympics,
which open on Friday.

Last week a senior military commander said radical Muslims who are fighting for
what they call an independent East Turkistan in Xinjiang posed the single
greatest threat to the Games.

In Xinjiang, a local Muslim people, the Uighurs, have opposed Chinese rule after
the communists took power nearly 60 years ago. Occasionally violent attacks in
the 1990s brought an intense response from Beijing, which has stationed crack
paramilitary units in the area and clamped down on unregistered mosques and
religious schools that officials said were inciting militant action.

Uighurs have complained that the suppression has aggravated tensions in
Xinjiang, making Uighurs feel even more threatened by an influx of Chinese and
driving some to flee to Pakistan and other areas where they then have readier
access to extremist ideologies.

One militant group, the Turkistan Islamic Party, pledged in a video that
surfaced on the internet last month to "target the most critical points related
to the Olympics".

The group is believed to be based across the border in Pakistan, with some of
its core members having received training from al Qaida and the Pakistani
Taliban, according to terrorism experts.

Meanwhile, in Beijing a small group of Chinese protesters clashed with police
near Tiananmen Square yesterday, saying the happiness of the Beijing Olympics
was built on their pain. China is sensitive to any public criticism of the
Olympics, and has stationed security agents throughout the city to watch for
signs of unrest. The two dozen protesters scuffled with police in the historic
Qianmen district just south of Tiananmen.

The protesters said they had been evicted from their homes to make way for
reconstruction of the district. The area is being rebuilt into a commercial
strip with businesses such as Nike, Starbucks and Rolex.

The demonstration was taking place as the Olympic torch arrived in China's
earthquake disaster zone.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday

16 killed;
in terrorist attack;
on eve of Olympics

BYLINE: Richard Spencer and Peter Foster in Beijing and Malcolm Moore in
Xinjiang

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 531  words


CHINA suffered its worst terrorist attack for more than a decade four days
before the opening of the Olympic Games as suspected Islamic separatists killed
16 police in the Muslim frontier territory of Xinjiang.

Police admitted that intelligence services had been warned of attacks in the
week before the Olympics.

They said two Uighur men, aged 23 and 28, drove a lorry at policemen out for
early morning exercise yesterday in the city of Kashgar in the country's far
north-west.

After crashing to a halt, they threw grenades or home-made explosive devices and
then began slashing at survivors with knives before being overwhelmed.

Fourteen policemen died at the scene, two more died on the way to hospital, and
16 others were injured. Debris from five explosive devices was recovered, along
with 10 home-made explosives, a home-made gun and four knives, state media said.

Xinjiang province, which is on the border with Afghanistan and Pakistan, is home
to a Muslim, ethnic Uighur population with a history of clashes with the
authorities. But there have been no major confirmed terrorist incidents since
the 1990s.

The assault is a serious embarrassment to the authorities, which have warned
repeatedly of the risk of attacks on the Olympics by Islamic and "separatist''
groups but insisted that security was under control.

According to Xinhua, the state news agency, the regional public security bureau
said it had intelligence that the "East Turkestan Islamic Movement'' planned
attacks from Aug 1-8, just ahead of the opening ceremony on Friday.

Kashgar, a Silk Road city that was a central location of the "Great Game''
played out by the Russian and British empires for control of central Asia, is a
magnet for tourists. Foreigners in the city said they heard loud bangs and then
were kept in their hotels while searches were carried out.

Timothy O'Rourke, an American, said the authorities had cleaned the site but the
damage remained visible. "You can see there are windows that are broken in a
nearby building and a pole has been ripped out of the ground,'' he said.

Although no group claimed responsibility, connections will be made with a video
posted on a website 10 days ago by a group calling itself the "Turkestan Islamic
Party'' (TIP).

East Turkestan is the name under which Xinjiang briefly declared independence in
the 1940s.

In the video, "Commander Seyfullah'' claimed responsibility for a number of
small but lethal bus bombings in China in recent months, and said "critical
points'' for the Olympics would be targeted with further attacks.

China denied the group's claims, and said there was no evidence yesterday's
attacks had an Olympic connection.

Exile groups previously accused the authorities of exaggerating the terrorist
threat to justify repression in the region.

Analysts say no Uighur group was thought to be sophisticated enough to penetrate
the ring of steel that has been erected around Beijing for the Games.

Nevertheless, in a separate incident in Beijing itself, a small group of
protesters clashed with police near Tiananmen Square.

They were local residents who had been evicted from their homes just south of
the square to make way for a new shopping district.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday

China on Olympic terror alert after border attack: Games organisers insist
stadiums safe as 16 policemen killed by separatists

BYLINE: Jonathan Watts, Kashgar and Tania Branigan, Beijing

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 703 words


Olympic organisers moved to reassure the public and athletes yesterday that the
games would be safe after China's deadliest suspected terrorist attack in more
than

a decade.

Sixteen policemen were killed and 16 injured in a raid on a paramilitary border
police headquarters, in the north-western Xinjiang region, by what are believed
to be separatists from the area.

Two men used a dumper truck to run down a group of police outside their station
in the city of Kashgar, before stabbing them and exploding

homemade grenades, the state news agency Xinhua reported.

After the attack, Olympic organisers indicated precautions were in place to
ensure the safe running of the games. "We are prepared to deal with any kind of
security threat and we are confident we will have a safe and peaceful Olympic
games," said Sun Weide, an official with the Beijing organising committee.

A security force of 100,000 is on standby in Beijing, 2,500 miles from Kashgar.
Security measures in the capital have included stationing anti-aircraft missiles
near the "Bird's Nest" Olympic stadium.

Yesterday's attack followed repeated claims from authorities that Uighur
separatists from Xinjiang were targeting the games. Details of the incident
could not be independently verified but witnesses reported hearing blasts and
seeing the aftermath of an explosion.

At the scene outside the Yiquan hotel yesterday, the only sign of what had
happened were three holes in the ground where trees had been recently uprooted,
and some broken windows at the travel agents next door.

A visiting British couple staying in a nearby hotel said they heard an
explosion. "I was having breakfast at about 8am when I heard two or three loud
bangs," said Sam Gunter, a tourist. "They sounded like a car backfiring so I
didn't pay much attention, until later when I heard some police had been
killed."

He went to the police station in the afternoon where he saw 13 large coffin-like
refrigerators, but he was ushered away.

Late last night there was a strong security presence at the scene, with several
police cars and a group of eight paramilitaries, but journalists were relatively
free to move around and report.

The Chinese authorities have identified the assailants, now in custody, as
Uighur men aged 28 and 33. Official media said local police suspected the attack
was a terrorist act and added that the public security bureau had suspected the
region's East Turkestan Islamic Movement of plotting an attack in the run-up to
the games, which begin on Friday.

"This is the most serious incident recorded in years," said Nicholas Bequelin of
Human Rights Watch. "Ahead of the Olympics, it is a very powerful symbolic
attack because security in Xinjiang is at an all-time high."

Turkic-speaking Uighur Muslims make up about 8 million of the 19 million
population in Xinjiang, a mineral-rich region more than three times the size of
France. Many resent controls on religion and Han Chinese immigration.

Human rights campaigners and Uighur exiles have argued that the government has
exaggerated the threat of violence and blurred the distinction between
terrorism, separatist arguments and cultural expression to justify repression.

Few analysts believe Uighur militants capable of launching a large attack on
Olympic venues, although they say it is hard to assess the extent of the threat
because the authorities rarely offer evidence for claims to have disrupted
plots.

The clampdown which followed violence in the 1990s has led to "nervousness and
tension" between Uighurs and Han Chinese, said Colin Mackerras, an expert on the
region from Griffith University, Australia. He added: "There's an independence
movement, but I don't expect it to succeed and don't expect many people will
want to take part, because they expect it to fail and know the result will be
more repression."

Last week, the Chinese officer in charge of Olympics security said that "east
Turkestan terrorist groups" represented the greatest threat to the games. But
others suggested it was too soon to label the incident as terrorism. Dr Andrew
Fischer, a specialist on western China at the London School of Economics, said
it could be a revenge attack by a tribe rather than a politically motivated
action.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday
                     London and all shared stories Edition

16 Chinese die in 'terrorist' attack

BYLINE: JOEL TAYLOR

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 225 words


SIXTEEN policemen were killed in a grenade attack by suspected terrorists
yesterday in China, just four days ahead of the Olympics.

Another 16 were wounded as the two attackers lobbed the explosives and knifed
border policemen, who were exercising at an outpost.

The attack happened in the western Xinjiang region, home to Muslim Uighurs that
have been singled out by China as a significant security threat in the run-up to
the Games.

The attackers drove a lorry to the site in the city of Kashgar, which featured
on the Olympic torch's route in June. The vehicle veered to hit a roadside wire
pole before the pair launched the assault.

Police said they had received intelligence that a militant separatist group
called the East Turkestan Islamic Movement was planning terror attacks in
August.

The rebels have forged links with al-Qaeda and Hizb ut-Tahrir, Chinese officials
claimed. Many Uighurs resent controls on religion imposed by the Chinese and the
expanding ethnic Han Chinese presence in the region, which is rich in natural
gas.

Meanwhile, 20 demonstrators were involved in scuffles near Tiananmen Square
yesterday as they protested against their eviction from homes in central
Beijing.

'We don't oppose the Olympics.

But it's wrong for them to demolish our house,' said one, Liu Fumei.

Read our eight-page Olympics supplement which starts on Page 25

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday

World - 16 police killed in China 'terror attack'

LENGTH: 357 words


Two men rammed a tipper lorry into a group of jogging policemen and then tossed
bombs at them in north-west China on Monday, killing 16 officers and wounding 16
more.

Local police described the assault in China's westernmost city Kashi in Xinjiang
Uygur Autonomous Region as a 'suspected terrorist attack."

Fourteen policemen were killed on the spot and two others died on the way to
hospital.

The attackers jumped out of the lorry after the vehicle hit an electrical pole,
throwing home-made explosives at the group and hacking at policemen with knives.

Police reported that the two attackers had been arrested and one had sustained a
leg injury during the raid.

The regional public security department had warned that it had received
intelligence that the so-called East Turkistan Islamic Movement planned to carry
out terror attacks before Friday's opening of the Olympic Games in Beijing.

Chinese police foiled an attempted sabotage by the Eastern Turkistan separatists
on board a Southern Airlines flight in March.

Top People's Liberation Army commander Tian Yixiang, who is also a security
chief for the Olympics, described the East Turkistan Islamic Movement as one of
the main security threats to the games, along with Tibetan separatists and
members of the Falun Gong cult.

Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region government vice-chairman Kurexi Maihesuti
reported last week that Xinjiang police had smashed five terrorist groups in the
first half of 2008, detaining 82 suspected terrorists who had been plotting to
sabotage the Olympics.

Beijing has stationed crack paramilitary units in Xinjiang, which is home to the
Uighurs, a Turkic Muslim people, and clamped down on unregistered mosques and
religious schools since violent unrest broke out there in the 1990s.

Some Uighurs have complained that the crackdown has aggravated tensions in
Xinjiang, making them feel even more threatened by an influx of ethnic Han
Chinese and driving some to flee to Pakistan and other areas where Islamist
extremism is rife.

Kashi was once a trading centre on the Silk Road caravan routes and is just 80
miles from the border with Pakistan, Afghanistan and Kyrgyzstan.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       August 5, 2008 Tuesday 2:46 AM BST

TERROR DETENTION PLANS UNDER ATTACK

BYLINE: PA Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 460 words


Plans for an extension to the time authorities can detain terror suspects to 42
days have come under attack from a cross-party Lords Committee.

What are the proposals?

The Counter Terrorism Bill would extend the maximum period a suspect can be held
without charge from 28 to 42 days.

Detention can already be extended for an extra 30 days under the Civil
Contingencies Act, but ministers want to be able to give investigators extra
time without declaring a state of emergency.

How will the powers work in practice?

The Government initially included a series of safeguards to ease civil liberties
concerns. These were further bolstered in an effort to avoid a rebellion from
Labour MPs during a crucial Commons vote on the issue.

Under the proposals, a chief constable and the Director of Public Prosecutions
would go to the Home Secretary to request an extension up to 42 days in the
context of a ``grave exceptional terrorist threat''.

A parliamentary debate and vote must then be held within a week. If the
extension is endorsed, police have 30 days to use the powers.

Judges would also review the detention cases at regular intervals - scrutiny
which ministers claim upholds the principle of habeas corpus.

What stage is the Bill at?

Having scraped through the commons by the narrowest of margins - a majority of
just nine MPs - the Counter Terrorism Bill will now go to the Lords when
Parliament comes back from the summer recess. It is likely to face stiff
opposition in the Lords and could well be rejected. Former MI5 chief Lady
Manningham-Buller has described the measure as ``unworkable''. Other prominent
critics include Labour's former attorney general Lord Goldsmith and former Lord
Chancellor Lord Falconer.

What happens if Lords and MPs cannot agree on the issue?

If peers reject the Bill, it will return to the Commons. If it is again passed
by MPs but blocked by the House of Lords, the Prime Minister may be forced to
evoke the Parliament Act to force through the legislation.

What is the case for going beyond 28 days?

The Government says the growing complexity and international nature of terror
plots means that at some point police will need more time to question suspects
before charging them.

So far around half a dozen people have been held close to the 27/28-day limit,
but there have been no cases that have reached it.

Scotland Yard Commissioner Sir Ian Blair and Northern Ireland Chief Constable
Sir Hugh Orde have backed the extension, but other senior officers have
expressed reservations.

And against?

Campaigners believe the extension to 42-days is a further erosion of civil
liberties.

In addition, opponents say there is no need for the move, as legislation already
exists allowing detention to be extended by up to 30 days under emergency
powers.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 5, 2008 Tuesday

China's Xinjiang police says attack unrelated to terrorism

LENGTH: 346 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

[Xinhua: "3rd Ld: Xinjiang Official Calls Monday's Raid on Border Police a
terrorist Attack"]

KASHI, Aug. 5 (Xinhua) - An official of Kashi Prefecture in northwest China's
Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region said on Tuesday the raid on Kashi border
police a day earlier was a terrorist attack.

The attack had been planned in advance, Shi Dagang, Communist Party secretary of
Kashi, told a press conference held in Kashi on Tuesday afternoon.

He said the two suspects caught at the scene had confessed.

Shi said that in documents prepared beforehand, the two had written that the
attack was more important than their lives or those of their mothers, so they
had to wage "holy war".

But Liu Yaohua, head of the public security department of Xinjiang, said at a
press conference held in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang, there is no evidence that
Monday's attack on police in Kashi was related to the East Turkistan Islamic
Movement (ETIM).

"No sufficient evidence has been found to say for sure the ETIM was behind
Monday's deadly attack," Liu told reporters.

Liu confirmed the two suspects had confessed their crime.

The Karshi police said one of the attackers drove a truck at a team of more than
70 policemen who were jogging past the Yiquan Hotel in a regular morning
exercise at about 8:00 a.m. At the same time, the other suspect threw an
explosive towards the gate of the station.

The attackers were detained on the spot, after killing at least 16 policemen and
injuring 16 others.

The two suspects were identified as Abdurahman Azat, a 33-year-old vegetable
peddler, and Kurbanjan Hemit, a 28-year-old taxi driver, Shi told reporters in
Kashi.

The two said in their confession they had closely observed the time and route
the Kashi border police used for morning runs for more than a month before
Monday's attack.

The truck used in the raid was stolen and parked near the Kashi border police
division the night before the deadly attack.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1321 gmt 5 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            August 6, 2008 Wednesday

China says Games safe despite terror attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 342 words


"Terrorists" from home and abroad seeking an independent Muslim state for
China's north-west Xinjiang region were involved, authorities said as security
was increased there after an attack on Monday that killed 16 policemen.

"We can see clearly that these forces are trying to wage a psychological and
violent battle against the Olympics," said Shi Dagang, Communist Party secretary
of Kashgar, a city in the Xinjiang region that borders Central Asia.

"They want to turn the year 2008 into a year of mourning for China."

Shi said Xinjiang police had arrested 18 foreign "terrorists" this year, and
that a major threat came from the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a
UN-listed terror group that reportedly operates in Xinjiang and Afghanistan.

Shi indicated the ETIM may have been involved in Monday's attack in Kashgar, as
the explosives the two assailants used were similar to those found during a raid
on one of the group's bases in Xinjiang last year.

Nevertheless, Beijing Olympic organisers sought to reassure 10,000 athletes and
500,000 other expected foreign visitors coming to China for the Games that they
should not be concerned about security.

"We can guarantee a safe and peaceful Olympic Games," organising committee
spokesman Sun Weide told reporters.

China has already employed intense security throughout Beijing and across the
country, with some veteran sporting officials saying they had not seen such a
show of force since the 1980 Moscow Olympics.

In Xinjiang, members of its Muslim Uighur ethnic group have complained for
months of a massive security crackdown that has seen many people detained.

Xinjiang has about 8.3 million Uighurs, and many are unhappy with what they say
has been decades of repressive Communist Chinese rule.

China announced security was ramped up to another level yesterday across
Xinjiang, and in particular the famed oasis city of Kashgar.

The official Xinhua news agency said police had increased road checks, while
extra security forces had been sent to guard government office buildings,
schools and hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 7, 2008 Thursday

Kenyan premier, American envoy to mark 10th anniversary of terror attacks

LENGTH: 443 words


Text of report Daniel Luseno entitled "Remembering US Embassy bomb blast"
published by Kenyan opposition newspaper Kenya Times website on 7 August

Today marks the 10th commemoration of the ghastly 7 August 1998 bombing of the
United States (US) embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in which 250 people lost
their lives while thousands were injured. Prime Minister Raila Odinga is
expected to grace the occasion alongside representatives of the US government
led by Ambassador Michael Ranneberger.

The senior officials from the two governments will lead survivors and victims'
family representatives in commemorating the day. Today, 10 years ago, the twin
bombings took place within minutes of each other in Dar es Salaam and Nairobi at
around 10.30 am local time.

No-one claimed responsibility for the detonations immediately, but with time, it
emerged that the attacks were the handiwork of Al-Qa'idah under Usamah
bin-Ladin, who had established terror cells in within the east Africa region.
The first blast went off in the Tanzanian capital and the second, just five
minutes later, in Nairobi. The Nairobi explosion demolished a five-storey office
block sending it crashing onto the embassy next door.

The then US Ambassador Prudence Bushnell was meeting Kenya's then Trade Minister
Joseph Kamotho at the nearby Cooperative House at the time. They both sustained
injuries. The blast could be heard 10 miles (16km) away and caused total chaos
in the city centre. A cloud of thick smoke and clouds covered the entire city as
helicopters hovered overhead. The US embassy the target of the bombers was
virtually wiped off.

But within minutes of the ferocious blast, volunteers were working furiously,
pulling survivors from the rubble. US President Bill Clinton condemned the
attacks as "abhorrent" and said every effort would be made to catch the bombers.
"These acts of terrorist violence are abhorrent, they are inhuman," Clinton said
at a White House press conference and added that , "We will use all the means at
our disposal to bring those responsible to justice".

Last week, one of the most wanted criminals on whose head the US government had
put a bounty of 5m US dollars, Fazul Abdulla Muhammad - believed to be the
mastermind of the bomb attacks in Nairobi - slipped a police dragnet mounted on
the Kenyan coastal town of Malindi, and to date, a manhunt for him is on in
Nairobi and along the entire Kenyan coast.

It is understood that Fazul moved out of his hideout just minutes a head of the
hunting pack. Three members of a family who had hosted him have been charged and
several other arrests made.

Source: Kenya Times website, Nairobi, in English 7 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 7, 2008 Thursday

Colombian police arrest 5 FARC guerrillas; thwart terrorist attacks in Bogota

LENGTH: 318 words


Text of report by Colombian RCN radio text website on 7 August

Bogota, Colombia (RCN): The police have captured five guerrillas who were
planning to carry out terrorist attacks in the city of Bogota today, 7 August.
Their targets included the RCN studios and several public figures. The alias
used by one of the persons arrested is "Javier Calderon." According to the
security organizations, he has the same rank among the guerrillas as the man
known as the FARC foreign minister, Rodrigo Granda.

Jairo Alfonso Lesmes Bulla, alias "Javier Calderon," was captured by the police
in the western part of Bogota. According to the authorities, this man is a
member of the International Commission of the FARC, the organization's
ambassador to the Southern Cone, and a sort of public spokesman for the FARC
like Rodrigo Granda. He was reportedly sent by the FARC Secretariat to
coordinate various attacks that were to be carried out in Bogota during the
national celebrations on 7 August.

Four other persons were arrested in the city of Neiva as part of this operation.
They are members of the Teofilo Forero Column of the FARC and are explosives
experts, reported the police.

A statement released by the National Police reported that so far they have found
two "car bombs" in the cities of Bogota and Neiva, each containing 85 kilos of
explosives.

"The information obtained so far indicates that the FARC's plans included
carrying out a terrorist escalation in various points of the city against
targets like the Armed Forces Health Department, the studios of a well known
communications medium, and at least two nationally known public figures."

The plan uncovered by the authorities caused security measures in the capital to
be intensified. The police have issued an appeal for any suspicious situation to
be reported to 112 or the antiterrorist line.

Source: Radio Cadena Nacional text website, Bogota, in Spanish 7 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 8, 2008 Friday

Chinese experts link Xinjiang terror attacks to international backgrounds

LENGTH: 735 words


Text of report by Hong Kong newspaper Wen Wei Po website on 5 August

[Article by Wen Wei Po: "Be Fully Prepared to Handle All Kinds of Threats"]

At approximately 0800 on 4 August, a border patrol team in Kashgar in Xinjiang
came under armed attack from two Uighur males. As of this writing, 16
paramilitary policemen have died and 16 others were injured. Occurring on the
eve of the opening of the Olympic Games, this vicious attack again focused
public attention on security for the Olympic Games. "We are prepared to deal
with any kind of security threat and we are confident we will have a safe and
peaceful Olympic Games," said Sun Weide, a spokesman for the Beijing Organizing
Committee for the XXIX Olympiad [BOCOG].

After the attack, the officials concerned in the Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous
Region immediately rushed to Kashgar to take charge of the rescue and security
work. Presently the case is under further investigation. Sun Weide, the BOCOG
spokesman, told reporters on 4 August that coordination would be stepped up with
the police in Xinjiang. According to Sun Weide, the Chinese government, the city
of Beijing, and the BOCOG take the security for the Olympic Games most seriously
and have created an effective command structure. Cooperation in security,
intelligence, and counter-terrorism has also been stepped up with countries that
have previously hosted the Olympic Games.

The Foreign Ministry of Spain has expressed its "strongest condemnation" of the
incident and its "full support for the Chinese people and government." It has
also reiterated its "strong condemnation of terrorist activities in any form."

Li Wei, director of the Centre for Studies in Counter-Terrorism at the China
Institute of Contemporary International Relations, said, "Judging from the
method of attack and the targets selected, the latest violent attack may be
related to the East Turkestan Islamic Movement [ETIM]. At a minimum it was
perpetrated by groups that support the ETIM." Li Wei said that Chinese police
had thwarted several violent incidents planned and carried out by ETIM,
including some targeting law enforcement personnel such as public security
personnel and armed police forces. He said that vehicles were easier to obtain
and harder to detect than other weapons. The latest attack was highly brutal in
that the alleged perpetrators chose vehicle as their weapon and caused heavy
casualties.

International Background, Olympic Games Targeted

This newspaper on 4 August interviewed Jing Tiankui, director of the Institute
of Sociology at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, about the latest attack.
He said that inter-nationality relations in China have always been very
harmonious and friendly. With the approach of the Beijing Olympic Games,
however, there has been a rash of violent incidents, a sign that the forces of
sabotage are going after the Beijing Olympic Games. And judging from reactions
of some unfriendly figures in the world as well as the incidents themselves, it
is clear these forces have an international background.

Xie Tongxiang, an expert in Chinese criminal matters, also told this newspaper
that Beijing has now initiated a variety of highly stringent security measures
to protect the Olympic Games, so he does not think that the plots of certain
international anti-China forces and national separatist forces targeting the
Olympic Games will succeed. However, security in China today must not be limited
to the Olympic Games but should also consider other cities in the country,
especially the Tibet and Xinjiang autonomous regions. The reason is that some
national separatist forces may make other cities the targets because of their
inability to engage in sabotage in Beijing.

Reportedly, 12 cells developed by foreign terrorist separatist organizations
such as the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, Turkestan Islamic Party, and
Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan have been cracked in the city of Kashgar in
Xinjiang this year. Meanwhile, police in the city of Urumqi arrested a total of
66 people of the "three forces" between January and June this year, cracked five
terrorist cells in Urumqi that were plotting to sabotage the Olympic Games,
captured 82 people alleged to have committed acts of terrorism, and destroyed 41
training camps that had been engaged in illegal proselytizing and the training
of jihadists.

Source: Wen Wei Po website, Hong Kong, in Chinese 5 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 9, 2008 Saturday

Pakistan alert against possible terror attacks in major cities

LENGTH: 132 words


Text of report headlined "Suicide bomber can strike in Lahore, Rawalpindi and
Karachi" by Pakistani newspaper Jang on 8 August

[by Nadim Alvi]

Islamabad: According to Interior Ministry sources, the law enforcement agencies
have been informed that suicide bombers have been dispatched from Swat
[North-West Frontier Province] and tribal areas to different parts of the
country, who can strike the security forces and important places in Lahore,
Rawalpindi and Karachi. According to the sources, agencies have been informed
that the terrorists are well aware of the government security arrangements in
the country and they can strike at the first given chance. Hence, every possible
measure should be taken to make foolproof security arrangements.

Source: Jang, Rawalpindi, in Urdu 8 Aug 08, pp 6, 8

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 9, 2008 Saturday

Tanzanian terror attack victims demand compensation from USA government

LENGTH: 309 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "Victims of 1998 US Embassy blast approach
American Govt for fair payment" published by Tanzanian newspaper The Guardian
website on 9 August

Some victims of the 1998 US embassy attack on Thursday [7 August]emerged with
placards at the 10th commemoration of the bombing pressing the American
government to compensate them as it did for other victims of the 11 September
attacks.

The victims were among other sufferers who gathered at the US embassy in Dar es
Salaam to remember their loved ones who died during the attack.

They were holding placards reading: "We request the US embassy to compensate us
due to the attack of 7 August 1998. Why were Americans compensated but not us?"

One of the victims, Doni Akilimpapa, said he was working as an Ultimate Security
guard at the US embassy when it was attacked in 1998. "I was seriously injured
in my ear and on my head and received treatment like other people who were
injured during the attack, but I didn't get any compensation", he said.

"We have written to the embassy on several occasions requesting for compensation
but they haven't responded. We want to be compensated because I am still
undergoing treatment and sometimes I fail to afford the treatment costs", he
said.

When asked to comment on the matter, an official from the US embassy said all
the victims of the attack were compensated and those complaining were being
unjust to the American people.

However, Akilimpapa insisted that he was not compensated, although he admitted
that he was given treatment for the injuries.

On 7 August 1998, the American embassy in Tanzania was bombed and 11 people died
while 100 others were injured.

On the same date the US embassy in Nairobi was also attacked where 218 people
perished and 5,000 others were injured.

Source: The Guardian website, Dar es Salaam, in English 9 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                            August 9, 2008 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Transport terror attack is biggest threat to Britain;
POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 601 words


Britain is more likely to face another attack on the transport network than any
other kind of threat, the Government revealed yesterday.

Previously secret information ranked a terror attack on transport as the most
likely risk faced by the country, raising the spectre of another July 7.

The second most likely form of threat is an electronic attack on IT and
communications systems, and the third most likely is a terror strike on a
crowded place.

The complex analysis in the Cabinet Office's National Risk Register looked at a
wide range of threats to the country, including natural disasters and industrial
accidents.

Different threats are ranked on a specially-devised graph according to "relative
likelihood" and "relative impact".

The document said: "Of the different malicious attacks outlined in this
document, conventional attacks on transport systems are judged to be some of the
more likely to occur.

"This assessment is supported by the many examples of this type of attack
perpetrated by different groups across the globe."

Railways, including underground train systems in UK cities, are "more vulnerable
to attack" than airlines because of different security levels, it said.

As announced by Prime Minister Gordon Brown in March, the document said a flu
pandemic was the biggest threat facing the country.

Such an incident would be the most damaging, claiming up to 750,000 lives.

But it is only the fifth most likely type of risk, according to the new
information, and is ranked as slightly less likely than a severe weather attack.

Coastal flooding was given as the second most damaging type of threat.

The document also provided advice to families and organisations on what they can
do to protect themselves.

It built on information contained in the Preparing For Emergencies booklet which
was delivered to every household in the country in 2004.

Yesterday's new information ranked a chemical, biological, radiological or
nuclear (CBRN) attack by terrorists as about as likely as a major incident of
inland flooding.

"The use of some CBRN materials has the potential to have very serious and
widespread consequences," it said.

"An example would be the use if a nuclear device.

"There is no historical precedent for this type of terrorist attack."

The document said the Government has stockpiled enough doses of the antiviral
drug oseltamivir, known as Tamiflu, to treat a quarter of the population.

"This should be sufficient to treat all those who fall ill in a pandemic of
similar proportions to those that occurred in the 20th century," it said.

"The Government is collaborating actively with international partners on
prevention, detection and research, and is taking every practical step to ensure
that the UK is prepared to limit the internal spread of a pandemic and to
minimise health, economic and social harm as far as possible."

Security Minister Lord West of Spithead rejected suggestions that publication of
the register would simply cause unnecessary alarm.

"I have great faith in the public and they would prefer to have information
because the thing that causes fear is ignorance of things," he told BBC Radio
4's The World at One.

"A thing like the flu pandemic, it's very difficult to gauge exactly what the
scale of it will be.

"We have done a great deal of work on it and I hope when people read this they
will be reassured by the amount of work that we have done within government."

Shadow security minister Baroness Pauline Neville-Jones said: ""We have been
urging the Government to be more open about the risks the UK faces for some
time."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            August 9, 2008 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

Drive-by gun attack Sefton terror at family home;
Screams heard as bullets hit window

BYLINE: LUKE TRAYNOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 292 words


A MOTHER and her two young daughters woke in terror when a drive-by gunman
blasted two windows at their home.

Three shots were fired at the property in Lyme Grove, Huyton, at 3am yesterday
while the family slept inside.

Shocked neighbours said they heard one shot, followed by a 15-second pause,
before two more shots rang out.

No body was hurt in the incident, but the woman, said to be about 40, and the
two young girls, aged around six and three, were at home at the time.

Neighbours heard screams from the house, quickly followed by a car speeding away
from the scene.

Yesterday, a large downstairs bay window and an upstairs bedroom window were
smashed after being pierced by bullets.

A maroon 4x4 vehicle, which appeared to have suffered damage to its side, was
towed away by police.

Forensic tests will be carried out to establish if the car had been shot at or
was involved in an earlier crash linked to the shooting.

Residents said trouble had been "brewing for a while", with some claiming an
older teenager was the intended target of the attack.

They also said it was common for gangs of youths to be seen hanging around
outside the address. Others said a member of the family had been threatened a
few weeks earlier.

One woman said: "It was scary. The shots sounded like an explosion and everyone
was peering out of their windows.

"There are always people gathering either inside or outside the house."

A spokesman for Merseyside police said: "High-visibility patrols have been
stepped up in the area and crime scene investigators are at the scene, carrying
out forensic examinations."

Anyone with information is asked to call the dedicated police gun crime hotline
on 0800 458 1211 or Crime stoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  INVESTIGATION: A broken front window at the house in Huyton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Spectator

                                 August 9, 2008

A film that shows how gutless Britain has become;
Michael Prescott - who was a passenger on the King's Cross train on 7/7 -
applauds a movie inspired by the terrorist attacks. But why is nobody keen to
distribute it?

BYLINE: Michael Prescott

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 979 words


The world has an estimated 798 billionaires. Thousands more people are each
worth hundreds of million. Any one of them is in a position to blow £8 million
on a whim. Only one of them has decided to gamble that amount on a film about
how Britain views its Muslims in the age of Islamist terror. Aron Govil is an
Indianborn Hindu who has lived in New York since 1970, gradually accruing wealth
through his activities in industry and the energy business.

Eighteen months ago a friend showed him a movie script set in London, inspired
by the 7 July Tube bombings and the shooting of the terror-suspect-who-wasn't,
Jean Charles de Menezes.

Mr Govil decided to make the movie. 'I felt this was a film with important
things to say, while Hollywood is busy making Hellboy II, ' he explains, adding
with unembarrassed candour: 'I have the money to make the film, I didn't need
support from anyone else, I decided to do it.'

Speaking to Mr Govil is what speaking to a BBC executive ought to be like. In
the coming months, this high-minded businessman will discover whether he can add
'movie producer' to his list of commercial triumphs.

We should all care whether he wins through, but frankly, the signs are less than
good.

No one wants to distribute Shoot on Sight, though it boasts a clever script, an
experienced director, high production values, a singularly topical theme and a
well-known cast which includes Greta Scacchi and Brian Cox. Mr Govil is trying
to break into the weird scene that is British and international movie
distribution, drawing strength only from his director, his cast and (here we
should all be grateful) his rather large bank balance.

'I have spoken to all the big distributors and at least they are upfront about
why they won't handle the film, ' says Mr Govil. 'They say it's too serious, it
deals with issues that are too sensitive. So my attitude is, I made the film -
if I have to distribute it myself then so be it. Obviously, after the cinema
release it will have a future life on television and on DVD.' There is more at
stake here, though, than a rich man's vanity. Something odd is going on which
surely begs profound questions about the cultural and political life of this
nation.

In the years since 7/7 we have had documentaries aplenty to probe the facts
about what happened, but a paucity of drama to examine the impact on how we live
and think in the new age of terror. Perhaps those in charge of our more powerful
cultural citadels - the BBC, Channel 4, the British film industry which they
help to finance - are frightened to venture into the thicket of sensitivity
grown in the dust of the Tube bombings.

Mr Govil and his friends have not feared to tread, yet scarcely a soul seems
interested.

True, the production team generated a few headlines by revealing that Tarique
Ghaffur, the senior Muslim officer at odds with his police employers, acted as
an informal adviser for the film. Against that, press screenings in London have
been thinly attended.

Happily, Mr Govil reports greater interest and even enthusiasm when the film has
been shown in Stuttgart, Dubai and Delhi.

Current plans are to force the movie into a few dozen British cinemas later this
month, try for a small American and Continental release and issue 270 prints to
the seemingly more vigorous Indian cinema market.

The film has been directed by Jag Mundhra. Like the film's producer, he is an
Indian-born Hindu who found success in America, first as a college professor,
then as a film-maker.

Staying in London in July 2005, he found a marked difference in people's
attitudes toward him after the terror attacks. Despite his conventional Western
garb and friendly demeanour, cab drivers were less likely to stop, passers-by
eyed him warily. It says a lot about the spunky attitude he brings to filmmaking
that his response to this sorry experience is to say simply, 'People viewed me
differently because of the colour of my skin and I can understand why.' The
director's experience was the seed from which Shoot on Sight was to grow,
nourished by other events which were to follow 7/7, notably the killing of an
innocent Brazilian by police officers who seemed to think they were tailing a
terrorist.

Mr Mundhra asked a friend with whom he had collaborated in the past to prepare a
script taking at its heart the aftermath of July 2005. Carl Austin, an
African-American based in Los Angeles, did him proud with the work which so
impressed Mr Govil when shown to him almost two years ago.

It is easy to see why Mr Govil took Mr Austin's work seriously. What impresses
most about this drama is its tough-mindedness. An innocent is gunned down on the
Underground. A senior Muslim police officer is chosen to be the face of the Met.

Like the real-life police adviser to the film, the fictional assistant
commissioner is called Tarique. His experience mirrors certain aspects of the
Ghaffur affair: yet another reason why limited interest in the movie to date
seems worthy of comment.

Perhaps one of the most curious things about Shoot on Sight is that it feels so
damned British. In terms of plotting, shooting and intellectual appeal, it feels
as if the folk who made Inspector Morse had reassembled for one last hurrah.
There is something curiously nostalgic about watching work of this type and
calibre. Whatever its cinema fate, the Sunday night schedulers from the main TV
stations would be well advised to start their bidding now.

Mr Austin's script lets no one off easily.

Police, preachers, Saudis, Brits, bus drivers:

everyone is affected by the shock waves from 9/11 and 7/7, and everyone is found
wanting.

Outside of the cinema, those in charge of our cultural and artistic life are
surely found wanting too. It has taken an LA script-writer and two Indians
resident in America to confront questions of what it means to be a Londoner in
the age of Islamism and the suicide bomber.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                      Copyright 2008 The Spectator Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday

German police chief warns against terrorists attacks

LENGTH: 292 words


Text of report by independent German news agency ddp

Berlin (ddp) -The Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA) is proceeding on the
assumption that Al-Qa'idah and the Islamic Jihad Union (IJU) are planning to
carry out terror attacks in Germany. "In the light of the pronouncements by
Al-Qa'idah and the IJU, we are convinced that the decision has been made to
carry out attacks in Germany too," BKA President Joerg Ziercke told Monday's [11
August] edition of Berlin newspaper Tagesspiegel.

Ziercke sounded a particular warning over the possibility of an attack by Eric
B., the German national who has undergone training by IJU. This Islamist hailing
from the Saarland is reckoned to be presently located in a camp in Pakistan or
Afghanistan. The Islamists of the "Sauerland Group," who planned attacks in
Germany using car-bombs and were captured by the police last year, were led by
the Jihad Union. Ziercke sees the main threat emanating from Islamist Eric B. as
the danger of his bringing about an attack on the Federal Armed Forces in
Afghanistan. He has already announced attacks on German targets in a video.

German Islamists' sojourns at training camps in Afghanistan and Pakistan are
being viewed with growing concern by the BKA. According to Ziercke, more than 50
Islamists from the Federal Republic have now undergone training in camps over
there. Up to nine of such individuals had already returned to Germany, he added.
These terror suspects are seen as forming part of almost 100 "persons rated as
dangerous," whom the BKA knows to be presently residing in the Federal Republic.
More than 200 investigations into Islamist terror suspects are presently
underway in Germany, said Ziercke.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1046 gmt 10 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 10, 2008 Sunday

Terrorist attacks in Russia on the wane - Duma MP

LENGTH: 288 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian military news agency Interfax-AVN
website

Moscow, 8 August: Head of the State Duma security committee Vladimir Vasilyev
has said that the number of terrorist acts in Russia falls by 50 per cent every
year.

"Whereas in 2005 there were 257 terrorist acts in the country, in 2006 there
were 112, and in 2007 - 48," Vasilyev said at a news conference in Moscow today.

He said Russia had developed a legal basis, taken the relevant organizational
measures, and drawn up mechanisms to prevent terrorist acts.

"We have fulfilled the task to stop and localize terror," Vasilyev said.
Currently, the question of prevention is coming to the foreground. He noted that
this is a more difficult task and it will be resolved as part of the Antiterror
programme.

He said Russia has a potential which allows it to finance to a large extent
antiterrorist preventive measures. Law makers also contribute to the process.
For instance, the Duma is now discussing two important draft laws: one on
binomial registration [Russ: binomnaya registratsiya] and the other one on
making deals with the law.

Speaking about the first draft law, Vasilyev said it would bring about a new
form of registration on the DNA level and a new database would be set up.

The second draft law will help prevent serious crimes, including terrorist acts,
through deals between the law and those members of criminal and terrorist groups
who committed no serious crimes and are prepared, in order to alleviate their
fate, to give up their bosses to police. Vasilyev said the law-enforcement
agencies and special services are pinning great hopes on the law.

Source: Interfax-AVN military news agency website, Moscow, in Russian 0936 gmt 8
Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 The New Review

                                August 10, 2008
                                 First Edition

Rising from the rubble;
Chris Cleave's debut novel, about a terrorist attack on London, was published
with horrific aptness on 7 July 2005. He talks to Christian House about his
equally controversial follow up

BYLINE: Christian House

SECTION: ARTS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1347 words


Considering the pivotal plot point of Chris Cleave's new novel, The Other Hand,
it's disconcerting to be flown out to the south of France to interview its
author. A trip down to the Mediterranean, where he has taken a summer house, is
far from a chore. Yet Cleave portrays two journalists on just such a
professional jolly who end up skewered by the sharp end of fate's stick.
Thankfully, as we sit out on a terrace restaurant in Nîmes, the only thing I'm
struck by is the searing Provençal sun.

Cleave navigates us smoothly through our order (his wife is French) with a jolly
demeanour that belies a keen intellect. He's full of zeal and brings to mind one
of those determined gentlemen code-breakers of Bletchley Park. It is this same
mix of affability and inquiry that infuses his fiction.

In The Other Hand, Sarah O'Rourke, a women's magazine editor, and her husband,
Andrew, accept a freebie holiday to a beach in southern Nigeria. There they
encounter two Nigerian girls, Little Bee and her older sister, victims of the
country's oil war. "What happened on the beach" (which I won't divulge here, but
is truly nightmarish) ultimately destroys Andrew. Three years later, on the day
of his funeral, Sarah and her four-year old Batman-obsessed son, Charlie, find
Little Bee on their west London doorstep. Now 16 and, having escaped a detention
centre, she's an illegal alien looking for a new family. One defining moment a
continent away triggers a comic tale of acceptance and a neat critique of the
British attitude to asylum-seekers.

"The Home Office aren't evil, there's no conspiracy," comments Cleave, although
he couldn't get anyone in the department to see him when researching the novel.
"There's just a general lethargy about the way these asylum-seekers are treated.
Which means no one gets exercised that they're put in handcuffs, taken on to
planes and deported back to places where they're going to die." He understands
that not all of the media are complacent. He refers to The Independent's
balanced look at "the numbers" and how the BBC "are making an effort". Yet there
remains a stubborn group that confuses asylum seekers with illegal immigrants.
"The Daily Mail can't say 'asylum-seeker' without saying 'foreign criminal' in
the same sentence. I'm sure it's practically editorial policy." Cleave points
out that Joseph Conrad, Sigmund Freud and Einstein were all asylum seekers and
that "John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath is a refugee novel, just inter-state.
The same hate remains."

The ludicrous nature of two worlds colliding is tangible in the book. Sarah
reflects: "We looked as if we'd been cobbled together in Photoshop ... the three
of us, walking to my husband's funeral. One white middle-class mother, one
skinny black refugee girl, and one small dark knight from Gotham City. It seemed
as if we'd been cut-and-pasted."

Inspiration for The Other Hand came in part from an early childhood spent in
West Africa and, more importantly, from a chance holiday job during his
university years (Cleave studied experimental psychology at Oxford). "We painted
underpasses, we did gardening, litter-picking. All good fun and I was thinking
of writing a book about it. The last job of that summer was at Campsfield House
in Oxfordshire. Now they call it an Immigration Removal Centre; at the time it
was an Asylum Detention Centre," says Cleave.

"For three days I was serving this inedible food to people who'd come from
Somalia, Eritrea, the Congo, from the Balkans. From war zones. They'd fled for
good reason. I got talking with some of them and said why are you here? Why are
you in prison? It's not illegal and yet we concentrate them in these places.
It's a text-book definition of a concentration camp. The conditions are
appalling. I was shocked enough for that to be the end of my light comedy book
of my amusing summers working as a labourer." Yet The Other Hand is very funny
indeed: "So often what happens to these people is ridiculous to the point of
laugh-out-loud funny."

Cleave insists that he is not a political writer. However, he begins the book
with a quote from a 2005 UK Home Office publication entitled United Kingdom: A
Journey to Citizenship. "Britain is proud of its tradition of providing a safe
haven for people fleeting (sic) persecution and conflict." If a government can't
even successfully proof-read such a fundamental document, how seriously can we
take its asylum procedure?

After university, Cleave spent a decade jobbing around, first as an online
journalist for the Telegraph and then editorial adviser for the then fledgling
lastminute.com. "Everyone at lastminute seems to go on to do what they really
wanted to do," he laughs. Then his debut novel, Incendiary, exploded on to the
publishing scene. It detailed the aftermath of a terrorism attack on London and
was published by awful coincidence on 7 July 2005. "I don't think my book is
unusually prescient," he stated a week after the bombings. "We all knew this was
coming - but none of my months of imagining the horror prepared me for the
reality of it."

Full of rage and humour, Incendiary was an international bestseller but divided
opinion. "Dear Osama," it began, "they want you dead or alive so the terror will
stop. Well I wouldn't know about that. I mean rock *roll didn't stop when Elvis
died on the khazi, it just got worse." The New York Times called it "a simple
case of tastelessness", a judgement that Cleave absolutely rejects. A similar
salvo was directed at Jay McInerney when he published his 9/11 themed novel The
Good Life. However, both authors celebrate what Cleave calls the public's
"amazing refusal to bow". What rankles more are the snide comments on his
literary ventriloquism (he has created first-person narratives of a
working-class mother and a Nigerian teenager). "And I'm super posh?" he asks,
clearly annoyed. He dismisses it as easy criticism. "Other people would do it if
they were good enough."

Family life has been essential to the conception of both books. "I would never
have written either of the stories without having been a parent. I'm a much
better writer for being a father," says Cleave, who has two young children. If
parenthood provides the trigger to his writing, it also provides the target.
"You think, well look, I've changed your nappy, I've taught you how to swim, but
all of that means nothing if you're going to grow up into a world that is
callous and stupid. I do this," he says pointing to the copy of his novel on the
table, "for the same reason I change nappies."

Both books feature sassy, unfaithful wives and marital shenanigans of lad lit
proportions. "This thing with being lovers, it isn't like being married," states
Sarah. "To remain in the game, one has to be considerate." Behind the quips,
Cleave seems aware of the deeper motivations of infidelity. "When you are
choosing a lover," he says, "you're choosing a philosophy; it's not about sex,
it's not about marriage. With Sarah, her unfaithfulness is just one of the
symptoms of the fact that she's torn and is going to have to make this strong
moral choice."

Cleave is adamant that optimism and laughter are the necessary binding agents
for humanity to overcome catastrophe. "The reason why I love people, and writing
about them, is because they don't always respond with hate and anger. If they
did I wouldn't have a story to tell. Who wants to know about someone who was
brutalised and became brutal? I'm interested in the exceptions." Or as the
Nigerian proverb that ends The Other Hand puts it: "If your face is swollen from
the severe beatings of life, smile and pretend to be a fat man." n

The extract

The Other Hand By Chris Cleave Sceptre £12.99

'... I was still watching the girl. The wind blew at her yellow sari and I saw
there was a scar across her throat, right across it, thick like your little
finger. It was white as a bone against her dark skin. It was knotted and curled
against her windpipe, like it did not want to let go. ... She saw me looking and
she hid the scar with her hand, so I looked at her hand. There were scars on
that too'

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SR


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             August 11, 2008 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Terror of teen attacks

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 91 words


TEENAGERS carry out 760 violent crimes every day, shock new figures reveal.

Although overall crime is falling, there has been a huge rise in crimes
committed by under 16s, including robberies, muggings and violent attacks.

Statistics from the British Crime Survey show that in the 12 months to March
this year, one in eight violent crimes were committed by school-age children.

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith has been criticised after telling MPs that the
chances of being a victim of crime were "at their lowest level since 1981", with
violence down by 8%.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRITICISED: Smith

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                             August 11, 2008 Monday

Rail worker's terror at night time van attack

BYLINE:  STAFF REPORTER

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 300 words


A terrified rail worker cowered in his van in the early hours as youths launched
a sustained attack on the vehicle, and claimed they had guns.

He had been working on the track at Newton Abbot, and was sleeping in the Ford
Transit before driving home to Cornwall, South Devon magistrates, sitting at
Newton Abbot, heard.

Before them was one of the gang, Wayne Barlow of Church Street, Paignton, who
pleaded guilty to criminal damage.

Crown prosecutor Philip Sewell said that on July 13, the rail man was woken at
about 4.55am near the track, after hearing somebody walking around outside.

He thought it might be fellow workers, but suddenly there was a loud bang on the
van as if somebody was kicking or punching it, and he heard a voice say:
'There's somebody in there'.

There was another big bang, the sound of glass being smashed, and a voice
declared: 'There's five of us, and two have got guns', and adding, 'we need to
get home somehow'.

Mr Sewell told the court: "The worker was very worried for his personal safety,
and was shocked that his van was being smashed up for no reason whatsoever."

The man called the police on his mobile from inside the van, and they quickly
arrived and arrested Barlow near the scene.

Mr Sewell said that the  damage totalled about £1,700, but that Barlow had only
been responsible for smashing a side window.

In mitigation, Richard Porritt said that Barlow was out with friends and had
been drinking all evening, although he did not normally drink a lot.

He was 'profoundly ashamed', and would not do it again, Mr Porritt told
magistrates.

The bench told Barlow he had caused considerable fear to the man, who was very
shocked and frightened. It was a group activity and the damage was significant.

Barlow was fined £150 with £45 costs, and told to pay £32.99 towards the damage.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2008 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                             August 11, 2008 Monday

Rail worker's terror at night time van attack

BYLINE: STAFF REPORTER

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 300 words


A terrified rail worker cowered in his van in the early hours as youths launched
a sustained attack on the vehicle, and claimed they had guns.

He had been working on the track at Newton Abbot, and was sleeping in the Ford
Transit before driving home to Cornwall, South Devon magistrates, sitting at
Newton Abbot, heard.

Before them was one of the gang, Wayne Barlow of Church Street, Paignton, who
pleaded guilty to criminal damage.

Crown prosecutor Philip Sewell said that on July 13, the rail man was woken at
about 4.55am near the track, after hearing somebody walking around outside.

He thought it might be fellow workers, but suddenly there was a loud bang on the
van as if somebody was kicking or punching it, and he heard a voice say:
'There's somebody in there'.

There was another big bang, the sound of glass being smashed, and a voice
declared: 'There's five of us, and two have got guns', and adding, 'we need to
get home somehow'.

Mr Sewell told the court: "The worker was very worried for his personal safety,
and was shocked that his van was being smashed up for no reason whatsoever."

The man called the police on his mobile from inside the van, and they quickly
arrived and arrested Barlow near the scene.

Mr Sewell said that the  damage totalled about £1,700, but that Barlow had only
been responsible for smashing a side window.

In mitigation, Richard Porritt said that Barlow was out with friends and had
been drinking all evening, although he did not normally drink a lot.

He was 'profoundly ashamed', and would not do it again, Mr Porritt told
magistrates.

The bench told Barlow he had caused considerable fear to the man, who was very
shocked and frightened. It was a group activity and the damage was significant.

Barlow was fined £150 with £45 costs, and told to pay £32.99 towards the damage.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2008 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 12, 2008 Tuesday

Kenya: Man jailed for threatening Chinese embassy with terror attack

LENGTH: 125 words


Excerpt from unattributed report "Embassy terror fax lands trader in jail"
published by Kenyan newspaper Daily Nation on 12 August

A businessman was yesterday jailed for three years for faxing a message to the
Chinese embassy in Nairobi, claiming it would be attacked by terrorists.

Cornel Owama Chweya, a Kisumu-based trader [western Kenya], was convicted by
Nairobi Senior Principal Magistrate Cecilia Githua on his own plea of guilty.
Chweya, 26, said he sent the message "in good faith".

The prosecutor, lead by Chief Inspector David Wangai, said the fax claimed there
would be a terrorist attack on the Chinese embassy on 210 July 2008.

Chweya can appeal within 14 days. [Passage omitted: other trials]

Source: Daily Nation, Nairobi, in English 12 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            August 12, 2008 Tuesday
                                  2ND Edition

My petrol bomb attack terror;
Landlady escapes blaze thanks to hero neighbours

BYLINE: LUKE TRAYNOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 407 words


A LIVERPOOL landlady today told how she ran for her life after a petrol bomb
attack on her pub.

Jackie Disley was about to go to bed when the device was thrown through a top
window of the Oakfield, in Anfield.

The 44-year-old was only alerted to the spreading blaze by two heroic
neighbours.

Friends said they feared Ms Disley could have been killed by the thick smoke.

The landlady and mother told the ECHO: "I was watching TV with my dog, about to
go to bed, when I became aware of a lot of noise.

"I realised the pub was on fire and I just rushed down the stairs.

"It was very frightening. I don't know why anyone would want to do this."

The fire ravaged the recently decorated first floor function room and spread to
others parts of the building, causing damage estimated at thousands of pounds.

Ms Disley, who has run the Oakfield for the past nine years, said she rarely
spends the night in the top-floor living quarters.

And she has no idea why anybody would target the pub, which is popular with LFC
supporters.

The Oakfield, at the junction with Thirlmere Road, was sealed off by police.

Many of the windows were blackened and shattered by the heat of the flames.

Susan Elliott and her daughter Kelsey, 19, were upstairs at their home opposite
on Oakfield Road when they saw flames inside the pub.

Ms Elliott said: "Kelsey spotted something which looked like a ghostly shape,
before realising it was fire.

"We ran outside and were shouting up to Jackie and ringing on all the doorbells
until she finally heard us. When she came outside she was in a right state,
panicking and white as a sheet.

"Jackie is a lovely woman and it's terrible to think anyone should do anything
to try and harm her.

"Thank God she hadn't already gone to bed or who knows what might have
happened."

A Merseyside Police spokesman said: "We are appealing for witnesses following a
suspected arson attack at the Oakfield Hotel, Oakfield Road, Anfield.

"Officers were called to the scene just after 12.30am following a call from the
fire service.

"At this stage the investigation officers are treating the fire as suspicious.We
are in the early stages of the investigation and are working with Merseyside
Fire Service to ascertain how the fire started.

"We would urge anyone who may have seen anyone acting suspiciously in the area,
or who may have any information, to contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555111."

luketraynor@liverpoolecho.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  BLAZE: Police sealed off the road outside the pubwhile fire
investigation officers examined the building

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 14, 2008 Thursday

Diplomat warns Russian ships' role may expose Ukraine to "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 238 words


The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry has expressed concern that the participation of
ships of the Russian Black Sea Fleet in military actions against Georgia might
lead to terrorist attacks in Ukraine's Crimea, the Interfax-Ukraine news agency
reported at 1008 gmt, quoting the deputy head of the Ukrainian part of the
sub-commission for Russian Black Sea Fleet issues of the Ukrainian-Russian
interstate commission, Viktor Semenov, as saying on 14 August.

"The worst thing that could happen for Ukraine is that the use of weapon by the
armed forces of the Russian Federation from the territory of Ukraine against
third countries could lead to unpredictable terrorist attacks against the
facilities and forces of the Russian Black Sea Fleet based on the territory of
Ukraine and, consequently, against the population of Ukraine," Semenov told a
briefing.

At the same time, Semenov described as "groundless" Russia's complaints about
Ukraine's decision to demand that Russian warships based in Crimea's Sevastopol
should obtain permission for their movements outside Ukrainian territory,
Interfax-Ukraine reported at 1036 gmt the same day.

Ukraine proposed to discuss the issue of the deployment of the Russian fleet in
Crimea in July, Semenov said. "But the Russian side refused to meet," he added.

Sources: Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1008 gmt 14 Aug 08;
Interfax-Ukraine news agency, Kiev, in Russian 1036 gmt 14 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            August 14, 2008 Thursday

United Nations: Security Council Press Statement On Terrorist Attack In Lebanon

LENGTH: 267 words


RDATE:13082008

The following Security Council press statement on the terrorist attack in
Lebanon was read out today by Council President Jan Grauls ( Belgium):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the
terrorist attack in the Lebanese town of Tripoli on 13 August 2008, which caused
numerous deaths and injuries, including amongst members of the Lebanese Armed
Forces.

The members of the Security Council expressed their condolences to the families
of the victims, to the Lebanese Armed Forces and to the Government of Lebanon.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of this reprehensible act of terrorism to
justice, commended the commitment of the Government of Lebanon to this end and
urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the
Lebanese authorities in this regard. They also recalled the need to put an end
to impunity in Lebanon.

The members of the Security Council emphasized the importance of the unity of
all the Lebanese people. They also reiterated their full support for all ongoing
efforts in Lebanon to combat terrorism, solidify democratic institutions, engage
in political dialogue and pursue national reconciliation.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            August 14, 2008 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

RAIDER XSCAPES WITH pounds 30,000;
Boss is held up at knifepoint in terror attack

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 64 words


A DARING robber yesterday frogmarched the terrified boss of a busy amusement
arcade to an office and forced him to open the safe.

Gary Strutton was held at knifepoint and led through the corridors of the huge
Xscape complex at Braehead before being tied up in a nightmare ordeal.

The raider fled down an escalator and through an emergency exit with his cash
haul.

FULL STORY: PAGE 5

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TARGETED: Xscape At Braehead

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                                August 14, 2008

Scrutineer takes a look at life in the Helston area;
Terrorist attack... storms... fire hazards... threats from venom. Faced with
that apocalyptic list of possible fates you might think we were talking about an
end of the world-type scenario.

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 527 words


Is Helston really that tacky? Some councillors think so. And they're right to do
so. Admittedly the town - whose main street was hailed by no less a person than
the late poet laureate Sir John Betjeman - is pristine compared to a couple of
north Cornish resorts we could mention.

At the very least, you could consider this was applicable to  the risk factor
of, say, the opening of the 2012 Olympics.

But no. These are just some of the possible hazards which might possibly befall
those attending... Helston Harvest Fair.

To be fair they have been chosen willfully and not in the least bit arbitrarily
by my good self from a list of possible occurrences drawn up in a draft risk
assessment form which has been studied by the Harvest Fair committee of Helston
Town Council.

Gone, apparently, are the days when someone could just turn up, bung up a big
tent and let the various show organisers get on with it.

Everything, it seems, has to be assessed for potential risk when people gather
in their dozens or hundreds, or thousands.

Even something as indisputably wonderful and, yes, even life affirming as Flora
Day is not immune with dark mutterings at the time of this year's dances about
the risk to public safety if dancers who have undertaken the event since "before
the mists of time" went through their normal route.

It's probably a good job we didn't have "risk assessments" when they started the
age-old tradition; the stewards would  have had to make provision for
pterodactyl attack or the health risks of slapping on too much woad.

We've lost innocence along with the plot.

And yet... one has to be slightly ambivalent about this sort of thing.

Remember, it was only a few months ago that there was a terrorist scare in
Exeter... yes, Exeter... the details of which may well emerge more fully if a
case goes to court.

But suddenly terrorism ceased to be something that happened to other people in
other lands.

If not on Cornwall's doorstep (and it could be argued the incident was) then it
was at the very least in the room next door.

At the risk of adding to all the doom and gloom around at the moment (just when
you thought things couldn't get any worse, the Russians start sabre rattling
again) it's probably fair to say that all of us are just that little bit less
safe than we were a decade or so ago.

Is there a risk assessment for depression, I wonder?

But there's also little doubt that a number of areas could be cleaned up.

Most of these are as a result of man's inability to find waste paper bins but
nature is by no means immune from criticism, either.

The difference is, of course, that while humankind should take responsibility
for its own waste, it  also has to ensure that nature's is tidied up.

Anyway, I digress.

Yes, the exterior of some town centre shops have seen better days, and, yes
again, flyposterers should be taken away and publicly flogged with rolled up
copies of their wares.

On this very page you will see that one woman, Tisha Browne, has been praised
for her efforts to keep Helston clean, tidy and attractive to visitors.

Perhaps we could all take a leaf out of her book (and dispose of it in the
proper manner when we're done with it).

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2008 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                                August 14, 2008

Scrutineer takes a look at life in the Helston area;
Terrorist attack... storms... fire hazards... threats from venom. Faced with
that apocalyptic list of possible fates you might think we were talking about an
end of the world-type scenario.

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 527 words


Is Helston really that tacky? Some councillors think so. And they're right to do
so. Admittedly the town - whose main street was hailed by no less a person than
the late poet laureate Sir John Betjeman - is pristine compared to a couple of
north Cornish resorts we could mention.

At the very least, you could consider this was applicable to  the risk factor
of, say, the opening of the 2012 Olympics.

But no. These are just some of the possible hazards which might possibly befall
those attending... Helston Harvest Fair.

To be fair they have been chosen willfully and not in the least bit arbitrarily
by my good self from a list of possible occurrences drawn up in a draft risk
assessment form which has been studied by the Harvest Fair committee of Helston
Town Council.

Gone, apparently, are the days when someone could just turn up, bung up a big
tent and let the various show organisers get on with it.

Everything, it seems, has to be assessed for potential risk when people gather
in their dozens or hundreds, or thousands.

Even something as indisputably wonderful and, yes, even life affirming as Flora
Day is not immune with dark mutterings at the time of this year's dances about
the risk to public safety if dancers who have undertaken the event since "before
the mists of time" went through their normal route.

It's probably a good job we didn't have "risk assessments" when they started the
age-old tradition; the stewards would  have had to make provision for
pterodactyl attack or the health risks of slapping on too much woad.

We've lost innocence along with the plot.

And yet... one has to be slightly ambivalent about this sort of thing.

Remember, it was only a few months ago that there was a terrorist scare in
Exeter... yes, Exeter... the details of which may well emerge more fully if a
case goes to court.

But suddenly terrorism ceased to be something that happened to other people in
other lands.

If not on Cornwall's doorstep (and it could be argued the incident was) then it
was at the very least in the room next door.

At the risk of adding to all the doom and gloom around at the moment (just when
you thought things couldn't get any worse, the Russians start sabre rattling
again) it's probably fair to say that all of us are just that little bit less
safe than we were a decade or so ago.

Is there a risk assessment for depression, I wonder?

But there's also little doubt that a number of areas could be cleaned up.

Most of these are as a result of man's inability to find waste paper bins but
nature is by no means immune from criticism, either.

The difference is, of course, that while humankind should take responsibility
for its own waste, it  also has to ensure that nature's is tidied up.

Anyway, I digress.

Yes, the exterior of some town centre shops have seen better days, and, yes
again, flyposterers should be taken away and publicly flogged with rolled up
copies of their wares.

On this very page you will see that one woman, Tisha Browne, has been praised
for her efforts to keep Helston clean, tidy and attractive to visitors.

Perhaps we could all take a leaf out of her book (and dispose of it in the
proper manner when we're done with it).

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2008 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                            August 16, 2008 Saturday

'It is not the dog, I blame the owner';
A Woman has spoken of her terror after she was attacked by a dog in Cleethorpes.

BYLINE: simon faulkner

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 349 words


The vicious attack left Patricia Billard (57) with puncture wounds in two
fingers.

As a result of the injury, her left hand became infected and her fingers swelled
up so much firefighters had to be called to cut off her wedding ring.

Mrs Billard, who came out of hospital yesterday, said: "I was absolutely
terrified. My dog was screaming. I didn't know what to do. I was in a terrible
state, covered in blood."

Mrs Billard, who is disabled and uses a mobility scooter, was walking her
five-year-old boxer dog, Max, in an alleyway near to her home at around 7.30am
on Sunday morning.

As she locked the gate to the alleyway behind her, she turned around to see a
snarling Staffordshire bull terrier (SBT).

She added she was sure it was a SBT, as she had a good knowledge and liking of
dogs for many years.

She said: "It went for my dog. It happened so quickly."

The dog bit Max on the side of his head and left two holes in his tongue.

When Mrs Billard tried to protect Max, the other dog grabbed her hand,
fracturing one finger and breaking another.

She said: "It could've torn my fingers off."

Eventually Mrs Billard managed to restrain the dog by pulling Max's lead round
it's neck.

Her husband Ian (61) learnt of the attack when his wife returned to their house.

He said: "She was at the bottom of the stairs, shouting and screaming. There was
blood everywhere."

The attack was reported to the police who asked Mrs Billard to identify the dog,
but when they went around to the home of the suspect there was no answer.

The couple are worried that the dog is still at large.

Mrs Billard said: "I'm upset about it still. I'm frightened to go out in the
alleyway. It could be a kiddie next time. It doesn't bear thinking about."

Her husband said: "It shouldn't be let out on it's own."

Mrs Billard added: "It's not the dog's fault. I blame the owner."

A spokesperson for Humberside Police said: "A call was received at 8.39am
reporting a woman had been attacked by a dog and was on her way to hospital for
treatment. Her dog was also injured.

"Officers are investigating the incident and have spoken to the woman."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 85


                    Copyright 2008 Grimsby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                            August 16, 2008 Saturday

'It is not the dog, I blame the owner';
A Woman has spoken of her terror after she was attacked by a dog in Cleethorpes.

BYLINE: simon faulkner

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 349 words


The vicious attack left Patricia Billard (57) with puncture wounds in two
fingers.

As a result of the injury, her left hand became infected and her fingers swelled
up so much firefighters had to be called to cut off her wedding ring.

Mrs Billard, who came out of hospital yesterday, said: "I was absolutely
terrified. My dog was screaming. I didn't know what to do. I was in a terrible
state, covered in blood."

Mrs Billard, who is disabled and uses a mobility scooter, was walking her
five-year-old boxer dog, Max, in an alleyway near to her home at around 7.30am
on Sunday morning.

As she locked the gate to the alleyway behind her, she turned around to see a
snarling Staffordshire bull terrier (SBT).

She added she was sure it was a SBT, as she had a good knowledge and liking of
dogs for many years.

She said: "It went for my dog. It happened so quickly."

The dog bit Max on the side of his head and left two holes in his tongue.

When Mrs Billard tried to protect Max, the other dog grabbed her hand,
fracturing one finger and breaking another.

She said: "It could've torn my fingers off."

Eventually Mrs Billard managed to restrain the dog by pulling Max's lead round
it's neck.

Her husband Ian (61) learnt of the attack when his wife returned to their house.

He said: "She was at the bottom of the stairs, shouting and screaming. There was
blood everywhere."

The attack was reported to the police who asked Mrs Billard to identify the dog,
but when they went around to the home of the suspect there was no answer.

The couple are worried that the dog is still at large.

Mrs Billard said: "I'm upset about it still. I'm frightened to go out in the
alleyway. It could be a kiddie next time. It doesn't bear thinking about."

Her husband said: "It shouldn't be let out on it's own."

Mrs Billard added: "It's not the dog's fault. I blame the owner."

A spokesperson for Humberside Police said: "A call was received at 8.39am
reporting a woman had been attacked by a dog and was on her way to hospital for
treatment. Her dog was also injured.

"Officers are investigating the incident and have spoken to the woman."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 85


                    Copyright 2008 Grimsby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             August 17, 2008 Sunday
                                  MS2 Edition

The British feel safe in Turkey's stunning south;
As the country recovers from a terror attack, peaceful Dalaman has Med style for
half the price of properties in Spain and Italy

BYLINE: Jessie Hewitson

SECTION: Pg. 54

LENGTH: 816 words


More than 20,000 Britons have so far bought homes in Turkey - drawn by the warm
weather, the beaches on the southern coast and a flavour of the Med at half the
price of Spain or Italy.

The big question mark over the future of this market is how possible buyers will
react to the latest terrorist bombs in Istanbul last month that killed 17 and
injured 150.

It was the eighth terrorist attack in tourist areas since 2003, as Islamists
seek to overturn Turkey's secular constitution.

Despite this tension the economy has been soaring by 6 per cent per year from
2002 through 2007, one of the highest sustained rates of growth in the world. So
fear of terrorism is the last thing agents and developers want but, not
surprisingly, they claim it is business as usual.

'I haven't seen a drop in enquiries after the bombs and I've not had one client
who has expressed concern over terrorism or safety,' says Andy Hawkins of
Chesterton International.

His agency is in charge of selling The Hill development in Alanya on the
southern coast. 'The attacks so far have been in Istanbul, not the tourist or
holiday home areas,' he points out.

The latest area being marketed to British buyers is Dalaman. Budget airline
easyJet has recently started flying from Gatwick - it takes four hours - to this
small town in southern Turkey. Previously you could fly expensively via
Istanbul, or by taking one of the weekly charter planes operated by Thomas Cook.

Dalaman is a 15-minute drive from Gocek, the exclusive yachting resort where
actress Demi Moore and her husband Ashton Kutcher holidayed last year, and where
Russian oligarch and Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich has docked one of his
mega-yachts. Marmaris, the busy, overdeveloped coastal resort, is a 90-minute
drive away.

Once you get past the unremarkable town of Dalaman, the scenery is spectacular -
a cross between the forests, lakes and open spaces of Canada and the pine and
orange trees of the Mediterranean. Sun is a reliable presence, and the price of
property is a big pull, too, with flats starting at just over £40,000 and villas
at under £70,000.

What you can buy here is mostly new-build. Older properties are passed on by
Turks through the generations and rarely come on the market. In addition,
property laws mean foreigners cannot buy land in rural areas.

Developer Curbanoglu, run by the Ilhan family, is building apartments and villas
in Akkaya, a rural area overlooking the mountains and emerald-green lakes, 15
minutes away from the town and the airport. So far, 73 properties have been
built and sold in the 300,000 acres of land. The plan is to build a total of 500
homes..

The Ilhans own almost all of Akkaya, save for the bits of protected forest that
belong to the government, and grew up in the area when there was no electricity,
modern roads or running water. Prices start at £44,000 for a two-bedroom flat
and rise to £154,000 for a fourbedroom detached villa with three bathrooms, a
private garden, swimming pool and lake views. Included in the development is a
safari-style lakeside bar with thatched roof and treehouse tables for dining.

It is predominantly Britons who are buying in this area, meaning that if
anything happens to shake British confidence in Turkey, it could have serious
consequences for anyone who wants to sell on their property..

Prices in Turkey rose between 15 and 20 per cent last year, according to Knight
Frank, after the country introduced a new law in 2006 allowing foreign buyers to
get mortgages in Turkey.

Capital growth in Dalaman has echoed this, according to Dominic Whiting,
director of Buying in Turkey, and is going up by 15 per cent a year. 'Even so,'
says Whiting, 'British buyers who could afford a flat in Spain find the same
money can buy them a villa with a pool in Turkey.' Kathryn Stewart, an NHS
manager from Leeds, bought a villa in Akkaya with her husband Gerry, 61, a
university lecturer. 'We bought the land and built a three-bedroom villa with
pool in 2005. It cost just over £130,000,' says Kathryn, 36.

'We had been looking at the US, Italy and Portugal, but the property we bought
in Turkey was far bigger than anything we could have afforded in those
countries.

'I had been on holiday in Marmaris, which is pretty built-up, but Akkaya is
quieter and less developed. We know there will be further development but feel
confident there won't be the high-rise building that has spoilt other Turkish
areas.' The building quality in Turkey may not always be as high as that of
Mediterranean counterparts, however.

During a two-day stay in one of Curbanoglu's villas, hot water proved unreliable
- surprising in a property where the developers knew journalists were staying.

A retired resident told me repairs happen in 'Turkish time', which, she said,
means a few weeks later than when you want.

Buying In Turkey, 0845 351 3551, www.buyingin.co.uk; Curbanoglu, 0845 355 5625,
www.curbanoglu.co.uk..

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1.VILLA JOY: Gerry and Kathryn Stewart in Akkaya where they have a
property with 2.BAY ATTRACTION: Property on the coast near Dalaman is becoming
popular because of its spectacular surroundings

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 19, 2008 Tuesday

Algerian radio says 43 killed in "terrorist" attack east of Algiers

LENGTH: 74 words


Text of report by state-owned Algerian radio on 19 August

According to a statement by the Interior Ministry and Local Authorities, 43
people were killed and 38 others were injured in the terrorist attack which was
carried out near the gendarmerie school in Issers municipality, Boumerdes
Province, at about 0700 hours [0600 gmt]. The statement explained that the toll
is provisional.

Source: Algerian radio, Algiers, in Arabic 1000 gmt 19 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 19, 2008 Tuesday

(CORR) - Algerian radio says 43 killed in "terrorist" attack east of Algiers

LENGTH: 87 words


[Please add the word Les in Line 2 of the item to read Les Issers]

Text of report by state-owned Algerian radio on 19 August

According to a statement by the Interior Ministry and Local Authorities, 43
people were killed and 38 others were injured in the terrorist attack which was
carried out near the gendarmerie school in Issers municipality, Boumerdes
Province, at about 0700 hours [0600 gmt this morning]. The statement explained
that the toll is provisional. Source: Algerian radio, Algiers, in Arabic 1000
gmt 19 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 19, 2008 Tuesday

Algerian interior minister quoted on toll of terror attack in Boumerdes area

LENGTH: 244 words


Text of report by state-owned Algerian radio on 19 August

[Newsreader] According to the interior minister, Noureddine Yazid Zerhouni, 42
[as heard] people, including a gendarme, were killed and 38 others injured,
including seven gendarmes, in the terrorist attack which took place near the
Gendarmerie school in Les Issers municipality, Boumerdes Province at about 0700
gmt [0600 gmt] this morning. Zerhouni went to the spot where the attack took
place.

We contact now the radio correspondent, Dalal Moudjahed, who is now at Bordj
Menaiel hospital in Boumerdes Province.

[Dalal] I am now at Bordj Menaiel hospital in Boumerdes Province where the
interior minister, Noureddine Yazid Zerhouni, visited a few moments ago the
people who were injured by the explosion. I will remind you that the explosion
took place, according to the interior minister's statement, at 0730 [0630 gmt]
near the National Gendarmerie school, precisely in Les Issers, Boumerdes
Province.

I will remind listeners that according to the interior minister, Noureddine
Yazid Zerhouni, the explosion killed 42 people, including a gendarme, and
injured 38 others, including seven gendarmes.

Up to now, this is the information we have. I will give you more details - with
testimonies of those injured and eyewitnesses who were present when the
explosion took place - in the next bulletins, precisely in the second main
bulletin [1200 gmt].

Source: Algerian radio, Algiers, in Arabic 1100 gmt 19 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 19, 2008 Tuesday

Syria condemns "terrorist" attack on training school in Algeria

LENGTH: 120 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus, 19 August: Syria strongly condemned the cowardly act of terrorism
which targeted the Gendarmerie training school at Issers city, east of Algiers
on Tuesday [19 August], claiming the lives of a great number of innocents.

An official source at the Foreign Ministry said Syria expresses grieve and
condolences to the relatives of the victims, stresses solidarity with and
standing by sisterly Algeria in the face of criminal and malevolence attempts to
harm the country's security and stability.

The terrorist attack against the training school killed 43 people and injuring
38 others.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 19 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            August 19, 2008 Tuesday

NATO: Statement by the NATO Secretary General, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, on the
terrorist attacks in Algeria

LENGTH: 131 words


RDATE:19082008

On behalf of NATO, I condemn in the strongest possible terms the terrorist
attack in Issers today. I offer NATO'S profound condolences to President
Bouteflika and to the Algerian people for this heinous act, which has caused the
death of many young people and hope for a speedy recovery of those injured.
There can be no justification for this destruction. NATO will continue to work
with Algeria and with the other members of our Mediterranean Dialogue to
cooperate in the fight against the scourge of terrorism.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 19, 2008 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

IRISHMAN HELD OVER SEX ATTACK;
FAMILIES' TERROR AS IRISH LEAVING CERT YOBS GO ON THE RAMPAGE

BYLINE: BY TOM WORDEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 142 words


AN Irishman has been arrested for an alleged sex attack on a 16-year-old British
girl in Spain.

The 38-year-old was held after police found the teenager running through the
streets in tears wearing only a T-shirt.

A neighbour had called police after hearing the girl scream for help at 4.45am
on Sunday.

Officers found her underwear and the rest of her clothes inside a flat in
Orihuela, on the Costa Blanca, where the alleged sex attack took place.

The girl told detectives she believes somebody spiked her drink.

She was out partying with friends but was driven to the flat by her alleged
attacker.

The Irishman, who has not been named, denied having sexual relations with the
girl.

Her parents arrived at the scene shortly after police and she was taken by
ambulance for medical treatment.

A police source said: "She was in tears in a very distressed state."

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NIGHTLIFE The town suits people of all ages

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 20, 2008 Wednesday

Twelve killed, scores injured in fresh "terrorist" attack in Algeria

LENGTH: 70 words


Text of report by state-owned Algerian radio on 20 August

"A terrorist attack with two booby-trapped cars against a bus and the main gate
of a military barracks" in the Berber town of Bouira, 110 km southeast of
Algiers, killed on 20 August 12 people and injured a number of others, according
to a preliminary toll, Algerian radio reported at 0800 gmt on 20 August.

Source: Algerian radio, Algiers, in Arabic 0800 gmt 20 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 20, 2008 Wednesday

China condemns terrorist attack in Algeria - spokesman

LENGTH: 138 words


Text of report by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News Agency)

[Unattributed Report: "Chinese Government Condemns Terrorist Attack in Algeria"]

Beijing, 20 Aug (Xinhua) - Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang gave his reply to
a question from the press on the terrorist attack in Algeria at today's regular
news conference.

He said: The Chinese government condemns the terrorist attack in Boumerdes
province, Algeria, a few days ago, extends deep sympathy for the victims, and
offers heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims and to the wounded.
The Chinese government is resolutely opposed to terrorism of any kind and firmly
supports the efforts of the Algerian government to combat terrorism and
safeguard national stability.

Source: Xinhua news agency domestic service, Beijing, in Chinese 1022 gmt 20 Aug
08

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           August 20, 2008 Wednesday

Frankland jail: Muslim inmates living in fear for their safety at high-security
prison: Report says convicted terrorists target of attacks: Inspector calls for
action to tackle the problem

BYLINE: Alan Travis, Home affairs editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 600 words


Muslim prisoners, including some convicted terrorists, inside one of Britain's
biggest high security prisons feel so unsafe that they have sought sanctuary in
the jail's segregation unit for their own protection, the chief inspector of
prisons discloses today.

Anne Owers says that there have been serious incidents of "prisoner-on-prisoner"
violence inside Frankland prison, near Durham, with black and ethnic minority
inmates in general the target of attacks and Muslim prisoners in particular.

Owers says in her inspection report on the high security jail published today
that some, but not all, of the Muslim inmates who have been attacked had been
convicted of terrorism offences.

Fourteen prisoners have been identified by the prison authorities as involved in
racist activities, some for racially motivated offences and others with links to
racist organisations. Owers also reports there has been a "serious incident"
involving groups of black and ethnic minority prisoners and white prisoners.

Two high-profile terrorists, Dhiren Barot and Omar Khyam, were moved out of
Frankland prison in March amid claims the jail had become "an extremely
dangerous environment for ethnic minority prisoners". Barot's solicitor,
Mudassar Arani, told the high court that boiling water and oil had been thrown
over Barot last July and he had spent a week in hospital.

The prison inspectors report that when they surveyed inmates about their
treatment by staff the responses by black and ethnic minority prisoners were
worse than those of white prisoners on a range of issues and they were also
over-represented in all disciplinary procedures, including use of force,
segregation and adjudications.

Staff understanding and knowledge of Muslim prisoners was particularly weak.
Muslim prisoners had been stopped from holding communal prayers in cells, on
landings and in exercise yards without the chaplaincy being consulted.

Frankland, with more than 700 inmates convicted of serious offences, is one of
the largest high-security jails. Owers says its population has become even more
"challenging" for staff recently with an influx of prisoners with gang
affiliations and the arrival of a small number of terrorists.

"It is unfortunate that this coincided with the absence of the governor for some
months, and the resulting drift that was observable at this inspection needs
urgently to be reversed," said Owers.

She says that action is particularly important as Frankland is due to expand to
more than 1,000 prisoners - far more than any dispersal prison has so far been
required to hold.

The inspection, carried out in February, found no evidence of a robust strategy
to reduce violence to deal with bullying and ensure safety, order and control.
More than one in four prisoners on the general wings tested positive for drugs -
a high ratio for a high-security jail.

Owers does, however, praise the prison's work on the special dangerous and
serious personality disorders unit, which holds 80 of the most dangerous
prisoners in the prison system. She says that innovative work is being carried
out.

Phil Wheatley, the director general of the National Offender Management Service,
said he was concerned about the comments about the safety of prisoners within
Frankland but added they should be seen within the context of the prison's
"extremely challenging" population.

"The issues raised in the report are currently being addressed by the governor
and staff at Frankland. A new diversity and safer prisons manager is in post to
ensure a focus on matters raised by the inspector in relation to anti-bullying
and diversity."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           August 20, 2008 Wednesday

US Department of State: Terrorist Attack in Algeria

LENGTH: 140 words


RDATE:19082008

Press Statement Robert Wood, Acting Deputy Spokesman Washington, DC -- The
United States strongly condemns today's attack against the gendarme police
academy in Issers as well as Sunday's attack against security forces in Skikda.
We extend our deepest condolences to the families of those killed, and our
thoughts and prayers to those who were injured. The United States remains
committed to cooperating with the Algerian government in the fight against
terrorism and steadfast in our support of the Algerian people in their quest for
peace, security and prosperity.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 21, 2008 Thursday

Algerian civil society condemns Boumerdes, Bouira terror attacks

LENGTH: 447 words


Algeria civil society and political organizations expressed their strong
condemnation of the two terror attacks which killed 60 60 Algerians on 19 and 20
August, Algerian radio reported.

The state-run radio said that Algerians had also voiced their commitment to the
national reconciliation policy launched by President Abdelaziz Bouteflika in an
attempt to end the bloody unrest during the 1990s.

National Democratic Rally (RND), led by Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia, reiterated
its condemnation of the attack, calling for increasing support for the security
forces. The RND urged citizens' vigilance and alertness in order to foil any
terror attacks.

Algerian Workers' Party leader, Louisa Hannoune, deplored the attack, describing
it as a "savage plan to target Algeria's stability".

Good governance ensures stability

Algerian Muslim Ulema Association appealed on members of terror groups to
"return to their families, people and nation" in a plea for peace aired by the
Algerian radio.

The head of the association, the highest religious authority in Algeria,
Abderrahmane Chibane, said: "Shedding the blood of the innocent, harming them
physically and psychologically and the destruction of their properties are great
evils against both the religion and the nation."

Chibane added that Islam was "described nowadays as the religion of terrorism,
violence, random killing and aggression against civilians". "Islam is innocent
of these invalid and unjust charges."

Proposing solutions to the problem of terrorism, he said: "The authorities'
commitment to promoting the national reconciliation, the continuing use of
Algeria's resources for the benefit of all its citizens and adopting social
justice and good governance are the ways to ensure the stability of society and
the country's development."

"Everyone's cause"

President of the International Federation of Terror Victims' Organizations Saida
Benhabyles condemned the attacks, calling for more engagement in awareness
raising and education.

She said: "Condemnation is a very weak word to express the feeling that
overwhelms us every time we hear about a cowardly criminal attack of this kind."

"It is necessary to continue the work in [community] mobilization and awareness
on a daily basis without relying on a particular incident."

Benhabyles added that it was "felt that the civil society and political class
gave up to some extent their actions against terrorism".

She said that the national reconciliation policy "did not help those who carried
out the attacks", adding that the policy should be spread at the grassroots
level as terrorism was "everyone's cause".

Source: Algerian radio, Algiers, in Arabic 0600 gmt 21 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 21, 2008 Thursday

Jordanian king condemns terrorist attack in Algeria

LENGTH: 109 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

Amman Aug. 20 (Petra) -His Majesty King Abdallah II on Wednesday sent a telegram
to the Algerian President, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, offering his deepest
condolences to the victims of yesterday's terrorist attack that targeted the
military academy of the National Gendarmerie (Al Darak) forces in Issers, east
of Algeria.

The king condemned the criminal acts and confirmed Jordan's support for and
solidarity with Algeria in its battle against terrorism. He wished those who
were injured in the attacks a quick recovery.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 1642 gmt 20 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            August 21, 2008 Thursday

United Nations: Secretary-General Condemns Deadly Terrorist Attack In Algeria

LENGTH: 156 words


RDATE:19082008

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon:

The Secretary-General condemns the terrorist attacks east of Algiers earlier
today which reportedly killed at least 43 people, including civilians, most of
whom were between 18 and 20.

The Secretary-General extends his condolences to the people of Algeria and in
particular to the families of the victims. He urges once again that the
international community support the efforts of the Government of Algeria to
combat terrorism.

The Secretary-General firmly believes that violence will not deter the people of
Algeria from the path of peace and national reconciliation.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            August 21, 2008 Thursday

United Nations: Secretary-General Very Concerned About Today's Deadly Car Bombs
In Bouira, Algeria, Following Terrorist Attacks Yesterday East Of Algiers

LENGTH: 200 words


RDATE:20082008

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon:

The following statement was issued yesterday afternoon:

The Secretary-General condemns the terrorist attack east of Algiers earlier
[Tuesday] which reportedly killed at least 43 people, including civilians, most
of whom were between 18 and 20.

The Secretary-General extends his condolences to the people of Algeria and in
particular to the families of the victims. He urges once again that the
international community support the efforts of the Government of Algeria to
combat terrorism.

The Secretary-General firmly believes that violence will not deter the people of
Algeria from the path of peace and national reconciliation.

Since this statement was issued, two car bombs have reportedly killed 11 people
in the city of Bouira. The Secretary General is very concerned by these new
deaths and once more condemns the use of violence.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 22, 2008 Friday

Azeri agency says two killed in terror attack in Baku

LENGTH: 221 words


Text of report by private Azerbaijani news agency Turan

Baku, 22 August: A grenade or an explosive device could be the cause of today's
explosion at a power substation in Xatai district [of Baku], Turan news agency
has found out from informed sources in law-enforcement bodies. Some experts are
inclined to think that this was an explosive device, since eyewitnesses say that
black smoke emerged in the wake of the explosion. This does not happen when a
grenade explodes. The final conclusion will be drawn after experts give their
opinions.

At the same time, the wounds received by the victims were caused by fragments.
The Interior Ministry, Prosecutor's Office and the National Security Ministry
are so far not giving any comments, citing that investigation is secret. Rustam
Usubov, deputy prosecutor-general, and other leaders of power-wielding bodies
are at the site of the incident. The place has been sealed off and journalists
are not allowed and no comments are made.

To all appearances, a terrorist attack took place in Xatai District, but so far
it is not clear who was behind this.

[At 1135 gmt Turan reported that the explosion occurred when workers opened the
substation's doors to enter. Two people were killed and two wounded, according
to the report.]

Source: Turan news agency, Baku, in Russian 1157 gmt 22 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 22, 2008 Friday

Philippines: MPs, defence chief see Moro attacks as "acts of terrorism"

LENGTH: 1265 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on
21 August

[Report by Christina Mendez with James Mananghaya, Jose Rodel Clapano: "Senators
Want MILF Tagged as Terror Group"]

Senators urged the government to classify the Moro Islamic Liberation Front
(MILF) as a terrorist organization following the deadly attacks in North
Cotabato and Lanao del Norte.

Senators Juan Ponce Enrile and Rodolfo Biazon, who both served as defence
chiefs, said the MILF should be included in the list of terrorist organizations
and file criminal charges against its leaders for the brutal and violent attacks
that killed over 40 people, including an Army colonel.

The communist New People's Army and the extremist Abu Sayyaf are already in the
list.

Enrile, who served as defence chief of the late strongman Ferdinand Marcos, said
government should file criminal charges against the MILF for violation of the
Human Security Act.

"If I were the government, I will charge them under the Anti-Terrorism Law...
They fall squarely under the Human Security Act. You have to charge them. The
fact is they committed a crime," Enrile said.

Enrile also joined his colleagues in urging the government to suspend peace
negotiations with the MILF until law and order is restored in Mindanao.

Biazon, for his part, said the MILF has crossed the line between rebellion and
terrorism.

"The MILF attacks against the towns of Sarangani, North Cotabato and Lanao del
Norte were characterized by the murder of defenceless civilians, arson,
kidnapping, hostage taking and destruction of properties," Biazon said.

"These are all predicate crimes that constitute one of the elements of the crime
of terrorism, the other element is when these are committed in order to coerce
the government to give in to an unlawful demand," Biazon added.

Biazon noted the announcements of the MILF leadership that the attacks were
apparently meant to force the issue of the Memorandum of Agreement on Ancestral
Domain (MOA-AD), which was supposed to have been signed with the government and
could have allowed the rebel group their own turf.

The Supreme Court put on hold the signing of the agreement because of
constitutional issues.

"Based on the pronouncements coming out of the MILF leadership, these acts had
been committed to push MOA-AD. The only remaining act of government is to
officially declare that the MILF is now categorized as terrorists like the Abu
Sayyaf," Biazon said.

In bad faith

Biazon said the government will have to "radically" change its dealings with the
MILF by pulling out from the peace negotiations and push for the arrest of the
guerrilla leaders behind the attacks.

Sen. Alan Peter Cayetano and his elder sister Sen. Pia Cayetano also said the
government should suspend the peace talks with the MILF following the attacks.

The Cayetano siblings urged the government to review its dealings with the MILF.

The elder Cayetano said the MILF must first show willingness to discipline its
own ranks and punish the rebel leaders behind the attacks.

"The MILF leadership must first display a firm commitment to its reported call
for ceasefire by helping in the capture of the so-called lost commands who
attacked civilian communities in North Cotabato and Lanao del Norte," she said.

The younger Cayetano said the MILF should be disarmed before appearing at the
negotiating table.

Sen. Loren Legarda, for her part, called on the MILF to surrender the two
guerrilla leaders behind the attacks.

Unless peace and order in Mindanao is restored and the two MILF commanders are
put behind bars, Legarda said the government should not entertain any discussion
with the MILF.

"Only when the perpetrators of those criminal and inhumane acts are apprehended
and made to answer in a competent court can the MILF come to the negotiating
table," she said.

Sen. Panfilo Lacson slammed the MILF for what he described as doublespeak by the
rebel group.

He said the MILF acted in bad faith in the peace negotiations.

"What the head says, the body does not obey. Or, it is plain doublespeak by the
MILF. Whatever it is, good faith is lost," he said.

Lacson said the government should exact justice from the MILF for killing of
innocent civilians and destruction of property in North Cotabato and Lanao del
Sur.

He added that government should not hesitate going after the perpetrators, dead
or alive.

Sen. Aquilino Pimentel said the government should first restore law and order
before dealing with the MILF at the negotiating table.

He urged the government to charge those behind the attacks before going back to
the peace negotiations.

Saving face

Defence Secretary Gilberto Teodoro said the attacks launched by the MILF in
Central Mindanao could be considered acts of terrorism.

Teodoro said the government is studying the possibility of filing criminal
charges under the Human Security Act against the MILF guerrillas involved in the
attacks.

Teodoro said the criminal charges to be filed against MILF commanders Amirel
Umbra Kato and Abdullah Saber Macapaar already carry maximum penalties under
present laws.

At the same time, Teodoro said the MILF should surrender its commanders who were
involved in the attacks.

"They are caught between trying to save face of one of their own and really
wanting to pursue the negotiations... The best thing to do for them is to
surrender these people to us so that we can prosecute them and for protection
that the law accords to citizens of this republic," he said.

Teodoro said the MILF could not justify the attacks staged by its fighters.

MILF chief Al Haj Murad Ebrahim told ABS-CBN that he had ordered the two rebel
leaders to stop the attacks in Central Mindanao.

"This is an unexpected situation. We have been very faithful in the peace
process and we hold the supremacy of the peace process. We are very saddened by
this situation and we hope, we are still optimistic that everybody will
cooperate and save the situation and the peace process," Murad said.

According to Murad, the attacks staged by the rebels were borne out of
frustration from the aborted signing of the MOA-AD.

"We are trying our best to restrain our commanders in order to save the
situation," he said.

Murad also expressed his desire for both panels to go back to talks and put an
end to the decades-old conflict in Mindanao.

For his part, former President Joseph Estrada said the government should totally
abandon dialogue with the MILF.

Estrada said the MILF demand for self-rule in Central Mindanao is tantamount to
dismembering the country.

In a speech before the business group Philippines Inc., Estrada explained why he
pursued an all out war against the MILF during his presidency.

"It was clear that I was dealing with a group that was not seeking peace but
power, an entity that was not only seeking autonomy but sovereignty."

"I believe in peace but not at the expense of our territorial integrity. I
believe in negotiations but this must be from a position of strength, not of
weakness," he said.

Estrada said the MOA-AD that would have allowed the MILF juridical disposition
over a large area in Mindanao "is treachery and treason under the illusion of
achieving peace."

Local officials also slammed the MILF for the treacherous attacks in North
Cotabato and Lanao del Norte.

The Union of Local Authorities of the Philippines (ULAP) led by Mandaluyong City
Mayor Benhur Abalos said the atrocities perpetrated by misguided elements of the
MILF are barbaric and criminal acts which contravene the spirit of the peace
negotiations between the government and MILF.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 21 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             August 22, 2008 Friday
                                   B Edition

Spain rejects UK hype on risk of terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 63 words


THE Foreign Office was today accused by Spain of exaggerating the terror threat
to British tourists. Spanish politicians said UK warnings of indiscriminate
attacks on foreigners in tourist areas were misplaced. Diplomats updated their
travel advice to say there is a high threat from terrorism in Spain after Basque
group ETA planted three bombs on the Costa del Sol last weekend.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

FAMILY IN FIREWORK ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: By Warren Manger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 220 words


A HEAVILY pregnant mum and her family were terrified when thugs hurled a
firework into their Coventry home.

They were at home in Wroxall Avenue, Willenhall, when the lit rocket was thrown
through their letterbox.

It shot along the hallway and into the lounge where it hit the fireplace and
exploded close to the woman, who is about to give birth.

The family has now fled the house because of fears of another attack.

Incredibly, the gang knew there were two police officers at the house at the
time, on Wednesday night.

They were speaking to the family after they complained about gangs outside their
home.

The father, who is too worried to be named, said: "I thought I heard a knock at
the door so I was just getting up to open the living room door when the rocket
flew past me, missing me by inches."

The rocket burned large patches of the living room carpet.

"My wife is nine months pregnant and she was terrified. These idiots didn't
think of the harm they could have done."

Two other homes in Willenhall also had fireworks pushed through their
letterboxes between 8pm and midnight on Wednesday.

The father said his family had been targeted by yobs before.

The windscreen of his van has been smashed twice and his car has been scratched.

He is working with Whitefriars housing association to find his family a safe
place to live.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAMA ... The area where the family lived. Picture by Robin Bidgood.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         Middlesbrough Evening Gazette

                            August 23, 2008 Saturday
                                  FIN Edition

TEEN IN BOMB TERROR;
Student evacuated after Philippines attacks EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: MIKE BLACKBURN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 512 words


A TEESSIDE teenager on a gap year exchange to the Philippines has been caught up
in a violent bombing campaign.

Hannah Gordon, 19, from Eaglescliffe, had to be evacuated with her team of
volunteers after bomb blasts rocked the city of Iligan.

Two home-made bombs exploded almost simultaneously on Sunday, August 17, in two
budget hotels in the southern Philippine city, reportedly wounding at least four
people.

No one has claimed responsibility for the blasts, but the attack came amid
renewed hostilities between government troops and the Moro Islamic Liberation
Front, a rebel group that has waged a decades-long battle for Muslim self-rule
in the region.

Hannah, a former Egglescliffe Sixth Form College student, was two months into a
three-month exchange programme co-ordinated by Voluntary Services Overseas
(VSO), called Global Xchange - carrying out charity work in Iligan.

Hannah and her Team 71 were evacuated. She contacted the Gazette from the
Philippines to tell us about the drama. "Several bomb blasts hit Iligan City. It
was decided then to temporarily evacuate Team 71 to a location outside the city
where it would be safer," she said.

"As we reached our destination, we learned the situation in Iligan City had
escalated.

"We are deeply saddened by the violence, as well as having to leave the good
people of Iligan City, especially our host families and everyone at our
volunteer placements so abruptly.

"We are truly grateful for everything we have received from the people of Iligan
... and our hearts and minds are with them in these tense times."

The first bomb exploded in a guest room in the Iligan Travelers Inn near a
shopping mall, wounding at least three people. A second bomb went off within
minutes in a room in the Caprice Lodging House, injuring one person, according
to officials.

Hannah, who is off to study development geography at King's College, London, in
September, called her family in Eaglescliffe as soon as she could to let them
know she was safe.

Her mum and dad, Ingrid and Douglas, and older brothers Euan, 23, and Calum, 25,
were hugely relieved.

Speaking from the family home on Yarm Road yesterday, Euan said: "Hannah rang
mum to say she and her team had managed to get out to a safe place. Then later
my father got a call from the VSO organiser to confirm they had been evacuated.

They won't be returning to Iligan before they return home in a couple of weeks.
He said they might be further evacuated to Manila.

"Hannah said she feels safe now, but she was upset she didn't get to say goodbye
to everyone. She also had to leave her belongings."

Euan said his parents "both had their concerns" about Hannah going to the
Philippines, but added: "We're all very relieved she's OK and will be glad to
see her back."

Reuters news agency was reporting yesterday that the Philippines government
would not sign a peace deal with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front. It was
reported that 31 members of the group surrendered to the military on Thursday,
and were pictured shouting slogans supporting the government.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SAFE NOW: Hannah Gordon, 19, of Eaglecliffe, pictured before her trip.
Far left, members of the rebel Moro Islamic Liberation Front, who surrendered
 GAP YEAR: Hannah Gordon, left, and raising money for her trip with a car wash,
far left, with older brother Euan, on right, and pals Pictures by IAN COOPER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 26, 2008 Tuesday

Two Pakistanis planning terror attacks in Afghanistan arrested - TV

LENGTH: 241 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV, on 25 August

[Presenter] Two Pakistani nationals have been detained in a combined operation
by the Afghan National Army and the coalition forces in Khost Province. Tandar
Army Corps No 203 says they were detained in the Qalandar District of Khost
Province yesterday. The arrested Pakistani nationals have admitted that they
were sent to Afghanistan from the other side of the border by terrorist groups.

[Correspondent] The arrested men were shown to reporters at the first brigade of
Tandar Arm Corps. The arrested Pakistanis say they have received training for
terrorist activities on the other side of the Durand Line and have come to
Afghanistan to attack Afghan and American forces.

[One of the arrested Pakistani national, in Pashto] They told us to go to
Afghanistan and wage war against the American forces. We were told that
oppression is going on in Afghanistan. When we came to Afghanistan and stayed
for seven nights here, we told them that we are going back home [in Pakistan],
but they told us the weather is cold now and that they will also go home with us
and give us our expenses.

[Another arrested Pakistani national, in Pashto] They said there was jihad and
they brought us here.

[Correspondent] Two Afghans were arrested along with them [Pakistanis], but they
[Afghans] say they do not have any link with the arrested Pakistani nationals.

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 25 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 26, 2008 Tuesday
                                  Eire Edition

BEAUTY & THE BEAST;
ELECTRIC PICNIC 2008 EXCLUSIVE DUFFY'S FESTIVAL TERROR AFTER ATTACK BY LYDON

BYLINE: BY PAUL MARTIN IRELAND'S NO1 SHOWBIZ WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 267 words


POP babe Duffy has begged Electric Picnic bosses for Mercy - and to be kept away
from punk rock bully Johnny Rotten.

The Welsh singer was reduced to tears at the Mojo Awards ceremony in London in
June when she was heckled and "pinned to the wall" by the notorious bad boy.

And the 24-year-old was horrified to discover the spiky-haired rock rebel, whose
real name is John Lydon, could bump into her again this weekend at the
Stradbally Hall festival in Co Laois.

The singer has asked organisers to place her hundreds of yards away from
Rotten's backstage area so they won't come to blows.

The sexy blonde star is one of the headline acts at the huge festival on
Saturday with the Sex Pistols starring on the main stage on Sunday. Rotten
attacked her as she was collecting a gong for song of the year at the bash.

Duffy revealed: "He'd been heckling me when I went to pick up an award, shouting
'Duffo', 'Up the Duffy', things like that.

"When I picked up the award, I had to walk past him so I went to say hi and
suddenly he had me pinned against the wall. I just went white and had to get
away.

"I just had to leave the building through the back door, it was horrible. I went
home with a heavy heart and an award."

A show insider revealed last night: "Duffy doesn't want another encounter with
him - he scares the life out of her.

"She's hoping he won't be coming anywhere near her over the weekend.

"All the VIPs will be mingling together in a luxurious back stage zone but
measures have been taken to reduce the chances of them crossing each other's
paths again."

The three-day music spectacle kicks off on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CENTRE STAGE Chart-topper Duffy is terrified of bumping into Sex Pistol
John Lydon, right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 27, 2008 Wednesday

Kyrgyz minister denies terror attack behind plane crash

LENGTH: 227 words


The Kyrgyz authorities deny that a terrorist attack was behind a plane crash
that took place near Bishkek on 24 August and killed 65 people, Kyrgyz TV
reported on 25 August. The TV report said that a news conference was held by
Kyrgyz officials on the same day to brief journalists on possible reasons behind
the accident. At the news conference, Emergencies Minister Kamchibek Tashiyev
ruled out the version of a terrorist attack.

"There definitely was no terrorist attack. The state commission, headed by the
prime minister, which has already been set up, will investigate the reasons
behind the accident and work out its versions," Tashiyev said.

Another possible reason behind the accident might have been the poor technical
condition of the Boeing-737 aircraft. The aircraft was produced about 30 years
ago. Two months ago specialists checked it and found its condition satisfactory
for exploitation, the director of the civil aviation department, Alik Askarov,
said in remarks broadcast by the TV.

Investigations of the state commission and the international aviation committee
are expected to reveal the real reasons behind the accident. Several specialists
of the committee have already arrived in Bishkek, the report added.

(Report lasts for about four minutes. No further processing is planned)

Source: Kyrgyz Television 1, Bishkek, in Russian 1400 gmt 25 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           August 27, 2008 Wednesday

Britain - British media attack terror propaganda

BYLINE: James Tweedie

LENGTH: 394 words


Anti-war journalists condemned leaked government plans to open a new propaganda
front in the "war on terror" yesterday.

A leaked government briefing document revealed the global propaganda drive to
"taint the al-Qaida brand" by "channelling messages" through bloggers and
chatroom members as well as major media outlets like the BBC.

The document was issued by the Research Information and Communication Unit,
which was set up by former home secretary John Reid and is staffed by officials
from several Whitehall departments.

The document, entitled Challenging Violent Extremist Ideology Through
Communications and dated July 2008, says that people need to be told that
al-Qaida has been definitively expelled from large parts of Iraq and has lost
ground in Afghanistan.

It states: "We are pushing this material to UK media channels, eg a BBC radio
programme exposing tensions between AQ leadership and supporters.

"And a restricted working group will communicate niche messages through media
and non-media."

The communication unit's guidance says that the propaganda is primarily aimed at
"overseas communicators" in embassies and consulates around the world but could
be used in Britain as well.

Media Workers Against the War spokesman David Crouch said: "These revelations
raise very serious questions about recent corporate media coverage of the 'war
on terror.'

"In June, there was a string of stories in the British press stressing that
al-Qaida was 'down but not out,' suffering setbacks in Iraq and Afghanistan -
precisely the message being pushed by Whitehall counter-intelligence.

"Yet the crisis in Pakistan this week and the killing of 10 French and nine
Canadian soldiers in Afghanistan in successive weeks shows that this is
rubbish."

Mr Crouch added that British and US secret services had a "disgraceful record"
of planting misinformation and propaganda in the media.

"In April, the New York Times exposed that the Pentagon conducted a major
campaign of placing retired generals on US TV news to put the case for war in
the run-up to the invasion of Iraq," he pointed out.

"In 2002, Donald Rumsfeld's Office of Strategic Influence inside the Pentagon
had to be scrapped after it emerged that it planned to plant 'black propaganda'
in foreign media," he recalled.

"The news that counter-intelligence is targeting the BBC should be a wake-up
call to all journalists."

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            August 28, 2008 Thursday

Terror attack by seagull puts shocked pensioner in hospital

BYLINE: Jamie Buchan

SECTION: NEWS; BUSINESS; Agri/Fish/Food; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 427 words


A Fraserburgh pensioner was left soaked in blood after a terrifying attack by an
overprotective seagull.

Jean Wemyss was walking through the streets of her home town when the angry bird
dive-bombed towards her head.

Shocked residents watched as the gull struck the 68-year-old on her crown,
leaving a 1in gash pouring with blood.

Mrs Wemyss spent an hour-and-a-half in hospital having the cut treated with
surgical glue.

Yesterday, she hit out at animal welfare campaigners who said this week that
people in coastal areas should stop complaining about seagulls as they were
living there long before humans came along.

"People who say things like that obviously don't live in a place like
Fraserburgh," she said.

"I'm an animal-lover and I love birds, but these seagulls are a menace and
always have been."

Mrs Wemyss had been walking through Fraserburgh's Queen Mary Street at around
7pm on Friday when the attack happened.

She said: "It was such a nice night, I thought I'd take a walk to deliver a
letter.

"I saw two seagull chicks on the road in front of me, but I didn't really think
anything of it.

"I didn't notice there was an adult gull nearby. The next thing I know, someone
shouts 'Watch out, Jean' and then there's a sudden, stabbing pain in my head.

"I didn't know what had happened. It felt like someone had hit me with a rock."

Mrs Wemyss added: "I was absolutely soaked in blood. It wasn't a big cut, but it
just wouldn't stop bleeding.

"I got a friend to take me to hospital and I was there for about an
hour-and-a-half.

"Then when I got home I had to put all my clothes in the wash because they were
just covered in blood."

Mrs Weymss, of Kent Gardens, has been left with a scar on her forehead and she
has been told by doctors to return to hospital so they can "keep an eye" on the
injury.

Yesterday, the Press and Journal reported that Animal Concern Advice Line had
criticised government plans to tackle the problem of aggressive gulls. Secretary
John Robins said people should stop moaning about birds living in their towns.

Mrs Weymss said: "It's all right if you don't have to put up with them every
day. Now I'm scared to go near these birds. I've started taking detours to avoid
them."

A few years ago, an unusual pilot scheme was launched to scare away the
"scurries", as they are known locally.

Robotic falcons, which sounded and behaved like their real-life counterparts,
were placed on rooftops around the town.

Fraserburgh's seagulls soon got wise to the scheme and, after just a few days,
were seen sitting happily alongside the fibreglass birds of prey.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARED: Jean Wemyss, who was left with a gash in her head after the
gull attack
Gulls can be overprotective

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2008 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Andover Advertiser

                            August 28, 2008 Thursday

Crossbow attackers terrorise families

BYLINE: Dick Bellringer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 425 words


TWO families from the Andover area were atta-cked in the middle of the night by
thugs armed with what they believed were a crossbow and an air rifle.

The attack happened while they were camping in an isolated spot in Gwent.

One mum said she was absolutely petrified' during the attack, and feared for
their lives.

Michelle Newton, aged 29, of Wildhern, and her six-year-old son Jonah, along
with her friend Kerry St-John, aged 38, of Roman Way, an arts and drama workshop
co-ordinator, and her three children Elle-Louise, aged eight, Charlie, aged
five, and Finlee, aged three, were staying in caravans overnight on Monday in a
lay-by close to Wentwood Forest after visiting friends near Usk.

It was the group's last night in Wales, after nearly a month visiting festivals,
and they decided to share one caravan rather than stay in two.

Around 1.30am on Tuesday Miss Newton, a jewellery-maker was woken by people
flashing lights through their window and shouting. But they left shortly after.

About 30 minutes later a car returned and when Miss St-John opened the door, she
was shot at with a crossbow from someone sat in a car less than 10 metres away.

She said the attacker aimed directly at her head, and the bolt ricocheted off
the caravan, missing her friends by inches.

The caravan was also shot at with an air rifle, making holes in the windows.

Miss Newton added: "We were panicking because of the children."

She said there were at least two attackers.

The attackers tied rope around the empty caravan and dragged it awa. But it got
stuck in a verge 50 yards down the road.

The two mothers put their children in one of their cars and drove away before
calling police.

Miss Newton said: "It was absolutely terrifying.

"I thought they were going to hurt us or kill us."

Too afraid to return to the lay-by, the group drove to Somerset overnight to
stay with friends before returning on Tuesday afternoon to retrieve their
caravans.

Following their ordeal, Miss Newton said Miss St-John was suffering with panic
attacks. "To be honest it was sheer panic, even driving down the road.

"It was dark. We were in a total state. We didn't know if they were following
us.

"It was like something out of a horror film."

A spokeswoman for Gwent police said: "The police received a call at 2.30am on
Tuesday from an individual who believed that a crossbow had been fired at their
caravan.

"Officers attended and confirmed that no-one had seen a crossbow or arrow of any
kind but individuals believed that one had been fired."

The police are continuing to investigate the incident.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Andover Advertiser

                            August 28, 2008 Thursday

Crossbow attackers terrorise families

BYLINE: Dick Bellringer

SECTION: NEWS (AA NEWS)

LENGTH: 425 words


TWO families from the Andover area were atta-cked in the middle of the night by
thugs armed with what they believed were a crossbow and an air rifle.

The attack happened while they were camping in an isolated spot in Gwent.

One mum said she was absolutely petrified' during the attack, and feared for
their lives.

Michelle Newton, aged 29, of Wildhern, and her six-year-old son Jonah, along
with her friend Kerry St-John, aged 38, of Roman Way, an arts and drama workshop
co-ordinator, and her three children Elle-Louise, aged eight, Charlie, aged
five, and Finlee, aged three, were staying in caravans overnight on Monday in a
lay-by close to Wentwood Forest after visiting friends near Usk.

It was the group's last night in Wales, after nearly a month visiting festivals,
and they decided to share one caravan rather than stay in two.

Around 1.30am on Tuesday Miss Newton, a jewellery-maker was woken by people
flashing lights through their window and shouting. But they left shortly after.

About 30 minutes later a car returned and when Miss St-John opened the door, she
was shot at with a crossbow from someone sat in a car less than 10 metres away.

She said the attacker aimed directly at her head, and the bolt ricocheted off
the caravan, missing her friends by inches.

The caravan was also shot at with an air rifle, making holes in the windows.

Miss Newton added: "We were panicking because of the children."

She said there were at least two attackers.

The attackers tied rope around the empty caravan and dragged it awa. But it got
stuck in a verge 50 yards down the road.

The two mothers put their children in one of their cars and drove away before
calling police.

Miss Newton said: "It was absolutely terrifying.

"I thought they were going to hurt us or kill us."

Too afraid to return to the lay-by, the group drove to Somerset overnight to
stay with friends before returning on Tuesday afternoon to retrieve their
caravans.

Following their ordeal, Miss Newton said Miss St-John was suffering with panic
attacks. "To be honest it was sheer panic, even driving down the road.

"It was dark. We were in a total state. We didn't know if they were following
us.

"It was like something out of a horror film."

A spokeswoman for Gwent police said: "The police received a call at 2.30am on
Tuesday from an individual who believed that a crossbow had been fired at their
caravan.

"Officers attended and confirmed that no-one had seen a crossbow or arrow of any
kind but individuals believed that one had been fired."

The police are continuing to investigate the incident.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 28, 2008 Thursday

Truck driver killed, Turkish soldiers injured in "terror" attack

LENGTH: 125 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["TERRORRIST ATTACK ON TRUCK KILLS ONE AND INJURES FIVE OTHERS" - AA headline]

SEMDINLI (A.A) -28.08.2008 -A group of PKK terrorists opened fire on a truck in
Southeastern province of Hakkari, killing the truck driver and injuring two
soldiers and three village guards on Thursday.

The injured were sent to Hakkari Military hospital with a helicopter.

Security forces launched an operation in pursuit of the terrorist group.

In a separate military operation waged in Genc town of the Eastern province of
Bingol a PKK terrorist was killed when a group of terrorists refused to
surrender and opened fire on security forces.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1156 gmt 28 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 30, 2008 Saturday

Separatists accuse Georgia of terrorist attack in breakaway Abkhazia

LENGTH: 171 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Sukhumi, 30 August: The [separatist] Abkhaz authorities accuse Georgia of
stepping up terrorist activities in the [breakaway] republic's
[Georgian-populated] Gali District.

"The Georgian side has committed a third terrorist attack in Gali District in
the past few weeks. It can be said now that Georgia has stepped up sabotage and
terrorist activities on Abkhaz territory," the Abkhaz president's
plenipotentiary representative in Gali District, Ruslan Kishmaria, told Interfax
on Saturday [30 August].

"A powerful radio-controlled mine was blown up near the village of Ganmukhuri
yesterday [29 August], when representatives of Abkhaz security forces were
driving nearby. By a lucky accident, no one suffered," Kishmaria said.

"This is a third terrorist attack in Gali District involving radio-controlled
mines. Three representatives of the Abkhaz law enforcement bodies died in one of
them," he said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0830 gmt 30 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 1, 2008 Monday

Ukrainian security service rejects possibility of terrorist attack on arms depot

LENGTH: 208 words


The Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) has said it does not have grounds to
believe that the fire and explosions at the arms depot near the town of Lozova
in Kharkiv Region on 27 August was caused by a terrorist attack, the private TV
channel One Plus One reported on 31 August.

The head of the regional SBU directorate, Serhiy Mukhatayev, was shown saying,
"We do not have the signs today which would provide grounds for believing that a
terrorist attack was carried out against this military facility."

However, the channel said that the series of fires and explosions at Ukrainian
arms depots in recent years has caused the government to ask questions. First
Deputy Prime Minister Oleksandr Turchynov, who is investigating the incident,
was shown saying: "Why did the fire catch light outside the territory (of the
arms depot)? Why was it not extinguished on time? Why were the flammable
materials stored on the territory of the depot?"

The first deputy chief of the General Staff, Mykola Tsystyurskyy, was shown
explaining how the depot caught fire: "The fire quickly set alight the territory
near the fence (of the arms depot). Strong wind expanded this territory onto the
military base."

Source: One Plus One TV, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1630 gmt 31 Aug 08

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            September 1, 2008 Monday
                                  Eire Edition

INLA SHOT ME 5 TIMES;
GRANDAD BLAMES TERROR GANG FOR ATTACK

BYLINE: BY VICTORIA MCMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 436 words


AMAN shot five times in front of his wife and child said last night: "I know the
gunmen and they're INLA members."

Speaking from his hospital bed Martin McCartan, 40, blamed the fringe
paramilitary group - which claims to be on ceasefire - for the attack on Friday.

The North Belfast grandfather said he has become the target of a "vendetta"
after he stood up to the terror group a number of years ago.

He added: "It's all because I won't let them walk over me.

"They came to take my girl's boy friend out to beat him. They came into the
house and kicked my wee girl Tierna up and down the room, so I threw a few
punches.

"I couldn't have them doing that to my wee girl. It's been downhill since then."

And he strongly denied malicious rumours that he had been attacked because he
was dealing in drugs.

He called on Chief Constable Sir Hugh Orde to make his "clean" record public so
the claims could be rubbished.

He added: "I'm not involved in drugs.

I'm calling on Hugh Orde to release my records to show I've never been arrested
for drugs.

"No drugs have been found in my house. They raided it but found nothing.

"If you have a new pair of trainers suddenly you're a drug dealer. I can't
afford to go to Newcastle for my holidays, never mind anywhere else."

Mr McCartan said he was mystified by police claims there were no paramilitary
links to his attack.

"The police were up briefly on Friday, but they haven't been near me since. How
do the police know it's not paramilitary?

"The INLA are behind it. Even the dogs in the street know who's behind it. I
could take them to their doors now."

He added: "We can't live like this. It is 2008 not 1989. The police are allowing
people running about the streets with guns all for the sake of the peace
process."

When the masked gunmen burst into his Cranbrook Gardens home in Ardoyne, North
Belfast, he pleaded with them not to shoot him in front of Tierna.

It is the second time their home has been attacked. In March last year gunmen
fired through the window of the 10-year-old's bedroom window.

"I pleaded with them not to shoot me in front of her and they said, 'F*** you
and your child'. She's been through enough.

"She sleeps in with her mummy and me. She won't walk up the stairs even in the
daytime. Her nerves are shattered and she's scared I'm going to die. We can't
take this any more."

He said doctors who removed bullets from his ankle, knee, elbow and stomach told
him he was lucky to be alive.

"There is still a bullet lodged in my knee, they can't get out. I'm lying here,
I'm 40 years of age lying crippled.

"I'm sick of it and the police aren't doing anything. I'm so angry."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WOUND Martin McCartan reveals stitches in his stomach after surgery;
LUCKY TO LIVE Gunshot victim Martin McCartan yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 2, 2008 Tuesday

Pakistan: Militant leader pledges not to indulge in attacks, harbour terrorists

LENGTH: 309 words


Text of report by Ibrahim Shinwari headlined "Cleric pledges not to harbour
militants" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 2 September

Landi Kotal, 1 September: The political administration of Khyber Agency signed
an agreement with a firebrand cleric here on Monday [1 September] barring him
from attacking security forces and harbouring local and foreign militants.

The political administration issued arrest warrant of the controversial cleric,
Hazrat Nabi alias Tamanche Mulla, on Sunday but he agreed to sign the agreement
to avoid arrest. Mr Nabi was accused of attacking containers and tankers taking
oil and other goods to Afghanistan, harbouring militants and inviting
Lashkar-i-Islam chief Mangal Bagh to Landi Kotal.

In a written agreement, the cleric assured the administration that he would
refrain from attacking security forces, government installations and oil tankers
and containers.

It was also agreed that Mr Nabi would not provide shelter to any local or
foreign militants in Landi Kotal and would patrol roads along with his armed
men.

The administration had earlier imposed a strict ban on display of heavy weaponry
near the border areas. Local authorities had on Sunday arrested at least fifty
Khugakhel tribesmen besides sealing their commercial property and impounding
dozens of vehicles under the Collective Territorial Responsibility clause of
Frontier Crimes Regulation. The action was taken to force the elders of
Khugakhel tribe to hand over Mr Nabi to the administration.

All the arrested men were released after the signing of peace deal. The
agreement was also signed by Malik Khan, Malik Rasool Jan, Malik Hafizullah,
Malik Mohib Fatmikhel and Malik Habibur Rehman on behalf of Khugakhel tribe. The
said elders would also ensure the implementation of the agreement.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 02 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 3, 2008 Wednesday

Turkish soldier killed in "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 71 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

GIRESUN/ANKARA (A.A) -02.09.2008 -A Turkish soldier has been killed when a group
of terrorists opened fire on security forces in the northern province of
Giresun.

Meanwhile, security forces captured a terrorist in the eastern province of Mus.
They also seized four grenades during the operation.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1910 gmt 2 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 3, 2008 Wednesday

Role of neighbouring countries alleged in Pakistan terror attacks - sources

LENGTH: 437 words


Text of report by Javed Aziz Khan headlined "Neighbouring countries involved in
terrorist activities: sources" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website
on 3 September

Peshawar: Investigation into the terrorist incidents across the country has
established the involvement of a spy agency of a neighbouring country in most of
the bloody incidents, official sources told The News.

"There are proofs that many of the terrorist gangs operating in the Frontier,
the Fata and other parts of the country are being funded and provided explosives
and weapons by the spy agency of a neighbouring country," a senior investigator
said while requesting anonymity.

The official added that secret agents and some individuals of another
neighbouring country were facilitating contacts between agents of the aforesaid
spy agency and members of the criminal rings that were bombing and rocketing
places all over the country.

"The make of the improvised explosive devices (IEDs) used in different blasts is
a clear indication that these bombs were made by properly skilled military
people and not untrained locals, working for different rings," the official
disclosed.

The official said the spy agency transported explosives and money to the
criminals through another neighbouring country. "The DTMF (Dual-Tone
Multi-Frequency) circuits, the RDX (explosive) material and plastic explosives
that are being used in roadside IEDs are purely of the latest technology that is
coming from abroad. The detonators and the latest model remote control system
are also being provided from a foreign country," the official disclosed.

Sources said criminals, as members of their rings, operating in Peshawar and
Charsadda were being paid monthly salary and huge share in booty. Money for this
purpose, these sources continued, is being provided by the spy agency of the
neighbouring country.

"Police had got incontrovertible evidence that apart from bomb blasts in
different districts and tribal agencies of the country, the aforesaid spy agency
was involved in the killing of three Chinese technicians in suburban Daudzai
village of Peshawar last year. The purpose was to affect the ideal Sino-Pak
relationship," the official claimed.

In that case, people in Afghanistan, the source disclosed, gave the accused
persons a huge amount in dollars. The source added that another such connection
was found about three persons who were killed in a blast in Yakatoot area while
handling their own IED. "One of the deceased was an Afghan, having connections
with a foreign spy agency," the source revealed.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 03 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 4, 2008 Thursday

Russian security chief warns of possible terror attacks in S Ossetia, Abkhazia

LENGTH: 268 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Volgograd, 4 September: There is still the risk that international terrorist
organizations will increase their activities in connection with the situation in
South Ossetia, head of the FSB [Russian Federal Security Service] Aleksandr
Bortnikov has said.

"We have very much specific material which indicates that international
terrorist organizations are trying to penetrate the territory of South Ossetia
and Abkhazia, and the territory of the Russian Federation to prepare these
[terrorist] acts," Bortnikov told journalists in Volgograd on Thursday [4
September].

He stressed the need to consolidate all international forces in the fight
against terrorism.

"We need to consolidate all international forces in the fight against this evil,
which concerns humankind all over the world. What is happening through the SCO
[Shanghai Cooperation Organization] shows that we are on the right track,"
Bortnikov said. [Passage omitted]

Bortnikov assessed positively the results of the counterterrorism exercises of
the SCO member states in Volgograd territory. [Passage omitted]

The exercise Volgograd Antiterror-2008 was carried out in accordance with the
cooperation programme of SCO member states in the fight against terrorism,
separatism and extremism in 2007-09.

Leaders of the security agencies and special services of the SCO member states
and officers of the counterterrorism units of Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan
and the Russian Federation took part in it. [Passage omitted]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0908 gmt 4 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 4, 2008 Thursday

Pakistan militants planning terror attack in Karachi city - paper

LENGTH: 253 words


Text of report headlined "Baitullah Mehsud, LJ join hands in Karachi" published
by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 4 September

Karachi: Baitullah Mehsud, the defunct Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LJ) and other outlawed
jihadi organisations have joined hands to pursue terrorist acts in Karachi,
Daily Times learnt on Wednesday.

An intelligence agency official told Daily Times that Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan
(TTP) chief Baitullah Mehsud was in contact with various groups in Karachi. The
newly established group is presently headed by Raheemullah alias Naeem alias Ali
Hassan, son of Wilayat Khan. A resident of Street 3, Shehzad Cinema, Qasba
Colony, Orangi Town, Raheemullah, 35, usually wears a Sindhi cap and has been
affiliated with the LJ and Harkatul Mujahideen.

Raheemullah is accused of carrying out various terrorist acts in Karachi,
including the assassination of Shia scholar and MMA Sindh leader Allama Hassan
Turabi.The sources said that the law enforcement agencies have arrested several
members of Raheemullah's group, however, others are still at large and are now
planning to sabotage the network cracking down on terrorists.

Daily Times learnt that Raheemullah established contact with Baitullah Mehsud
and many Karachi-based activists, including Qari Abid Mehsud, Khalid Dare Walla,
Mufti Ilyas, Colonel Tufaan, Qari Hussain Mehsud, Abdul Wahad Mehsud of Kunwari
Colony in Metroville and Faizullah Mehsud, a resident of Sohrab Goth, have
joined him.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 04 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 4, 2008 Thursday

Colombian FARC decries 14 August bomb attack as "state-sponsored terrorism"

LENGTH: 557 words


Text of report by independent New Colombia News Agency (Anncol) website

[FARC communique dated 31 August in the mountains of Colombia; posted on New
Colombia News Agency's website on 3 September: "FARC Denies Perpetrating Ituango
Attack"]

Wednesday, 3 Sep-In a communique sent to the Anncol editorial office, the Ivan
Rios and Martin Caballero blocks deny responsibility for the bombing in Ituango.

This is the complete text of the communique:

1. It is with deep outrage and grief for our country that the Revolutionary
Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC, denounce the monstrous attack of 14 August which
criminal hands of the State perpetrated against the civilian population of
Ituango, when a bomb exploded on a sidewalk in the municipality. This
reprehensible act of State-sponsored terrorism caused the death of 7 citizens
and wounded 50 others. President Uribe, the pathological liar who hates Ituango,
who in the recent past jailed dozens of residents after a massive roundup, and
who gave his approval for the massacre in El Aro, has implicated the FARC in
this distressing incident in order to conceal his direct responsibility for the
atrocious crime.

2. The Pescadero hydroelectric megaproject in the district is becoming a curse
for the residents of Ituango. Both President Uribe and Governor Alfredo Ramos
want to undo Ituango's status as a municipality and turn it back into a village
of Yarumal, against the backdrop of this $2.4 million business deal. The brutal
repression of the campesino population is linked to the megaproject. The violent
eradication of so-called illicit crops is a form of repression linked to the
megaproject. Uribe does not like Ituango because its residents have not bowed to
the demand of working with the Army. This is the real reason for the bombing of
its unarmed population.

3. We express our most deeply felt condolences to the people of Ituango, who
have every right to demand that high-level judicial bodies investigate the
incident and administer exemplary punishment to the government officials who
perpetrated this vile crime against humanity. We call upon human rights
organizations and all of the country's political and social forces that do not
agree with the methods of fascism to use their good offices in defence of the
residents of Ituango. The construction of megaprojects must never again cause
innocent blood to be shed in Colombia.

4. In this same regard, we ask ourselves why judicial authorities have not
opened an investigation into State terrorism by the army in connection with the
events of 30 July in the town of Maicao. The "discovery" of 1,000 kilos of the
explosive Anfo on that date in a pond surrounded by shacks was merely another
false positive, a ploy in the Army's psychological war to terrorize the
population, isolate the FARC, and at the same time portray itself as a "hero" in
the nation's eyes. These false "heroes" of the Army are the same ones who
continue to patrol the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta with the paramilitaries,
massacring Indians, economically blockading the population, displacing it, and
killing campesinos whom they later portray as guerrillas slain in combat.

Ivan Rios and Martin Caballero Blocks of the FARC

Mountains of Colombia, 31 August 2008

Amended, Wednesday, 3 September 2008

Source: New Colombia News Agency (Anncol) website, in Spanish 3 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 4, 2008 Thursday
                              North Wales Edition

Murder bid on Pakistan PM;
'Terror crackdown led to attack'

BYLINE: JAMES TAPSFIELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 457 words


PAKISTAN'S Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gillani last night insisted an
assassination attempt on his life showed his government was taking on terrorism.

Speaking at a meeting with Tory leader David Cameron in Islamabad, Mr Gillani
said the attack was "a reaction" after security forces targeted extremists in
the north of the country.

At least two gun shots hit Mr Gillani's armoured car yesterday afternoon but he
was not in it.

Mr Gillani said: "Things are pretty serious (with the Taliban and al Qaida)
because this time we took them very seriously."

He also claimed a Taliban group had confirmed they carried out the attack. "They
have accepted the responsibility that they did it," he said.

The Pakistani security services have been carrying out a series of operations in
the north of the country, where the extremists have their power base. Earlier
yesterday, the Pakistan army claimed it had killed 30 militants during an
operation in the north-western Swat valley.

Pakistan is viewed as a key ally in the West's fight against terrorism, and
there have been fears about its commitment since the resignation last month of
Pervez Musharraf, who had been closely associated with the US and Britain.

But following a series of bloody suicide bombings on military targets, the
newly-elected government quickly signalled its intent by banning the country's
main Taliban group, the TTP, freezing its bank accounts and announcing rewards
for the arrest of its leaders.

The latest attack comes as tensions are running high before the appointment of a
new president on Saturday.

The overwhelming favourite is Asif Ali Zardari, husband of assassinated former
prime minister Benazir Bhutto and leader of Mr Gillani's party, the PPP.

Mr Cameron warned yesterday that terrorism could threaten Pakistan's future, and
said the assassination bid demonstrated it had to be tackled.

"We may well have had another reminder of the permanent threat terrorism poses,"
he said during a speech to academics and politicians.

The Tory leader, who spent yesterday visiting UK troops in Afghanistan, stressed
security in both Pakistan and Britain depended on effectively stamping out
terrorist groups.

"The longer the Taliban can operate with relative freedom in the tribal areas of
western frontier provinces and Baluchistan, the more they will threaten not just
the security of Afghanistan but the security, some would say the future, of
Pakistan itself," he said.

Mr Cameron called on the new government to press ahead with efforts to tackle
terrorism, referring to criticism of Pakistan's previous attitude to some groups
by saying there was no room for "ambivalence". He also urged the country's
leaders not to "slip back" in their quest for democracy.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Tory leader David Cameron and Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague
at Faisal Mosque in Islamabad, yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           September 4, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Pakistan PM says crackdown on terror led to bid to kill him;
Attack on car a reaction by Taliban to challenge, says Gillani

BYLINE: James Tapsfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 556 words


PAKISTAN'S Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gillani last night insisted an attempt on
his life yesterday showed his government was taking on terrorism.

At a meeting with Tory leader David Cameron in Islamabad, Mr Gillani said the
attack was "a reaction" after security forces targeted extremists in the north
of the country.

At least two shots hit Mr Gillani's car while his convoy was on the way to pick
him up from Islamabad airport. However, he was not inside the armoured car.

Mr Gillani said: "Things are pretty serious (with the Taliban and al-Qaeda)
because this time we took them very seriously.

"We have (challenged them) - there is a reaction."

He also claimed that a Taliban group had confirmed that they carried out the
attack. "They have accepted the responsibility that they did it," he said.

The Pakistani security services have been carrying out a series of operations in
the north of the country, where the extremists have their power base.

Earlier yesterday the military in Pakistan claimed it had killed 30 militants
during an operation in the north-western Swat valley area.

Pakistan is viewed as a keyally in the West's fight against terrorism, and there
have been fears over its commitment since the resignation last month of Pervez
Musharraf, who had been closely associated with the US and Britain.

But the newly-elected government quickly signaled its intent by banning the
country's main Taliban group, the TTP, freezing its bank accounts and announcing
rewards for the arrest of its leaders.

That followed a series of bloody suicide bombings on military targets, seemingly
intended to destabilise the administration.

The latest attack comes with tensions in Pakistan running high ahead of the
appointment on Saturday of a new president. The overwhelming favourite is Asif
Ali Zardari, the husband of assassinated former Pakistan prime minister Benazir
Bhutto and the leader of Mr Gillani's party, the PPP.

Mr Cameron had warned yesterday that terrorism could threaten Pakistan's future,
and said the assassination bid demonstrated that it had to be tackled.

"We may well have had another reminder of the permanent threat that terrorism
poses," he said during a speech to academics and politicians.

The Tory leader - who spent yesterday visiting UK troops in Afghanistan -
stressed that security in both Pakistan and Britain depended on effectively
stamping out groups such as the Taliban and al-Qaeda.

"The longer the Taliban can operate with relative freedom in the tribal areas of
western frontier provinces and Baluchistan, the more they will threaten not just
the security of Afghanistan but the security - some would say the future - of
Pakistan itself."

Mr Cameron called on the new government to press ahead with efforts to tackle
terrorism, referring to criticism of Pakistan's previous attitude to some groups
by saying there was no room for "ambivalence".

He also urged the country's leaders not to "slip back" in their quest for
democracy - although he stressed patience was needed to foster a stable system.

Mr Cameron also met a number of other senior politicians, including Mr Zardari,
who assured him of Pakistan's commitment to fighting terror.

After their talks at the prime minister's official residence last night, Mr
Gillani was hosting a lavish dinner in Mr Cameron's honour.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 5, 2008 Friday

UK visa centres in Pakistan closed fearing terror attacks - paper

LENGTH: 320 words


Text of report headlined "Govt warns of suicide attacks in Islamabad, Lahore,
Karachi" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 5 September

Rawalpindi, Sept 4: The government has warned that two suspected terrorists had
left Dera Ismail Khan to carry out suicide attacks in Islamabad, Lahore and
Karachi, possibly targeting the UK visa application centres and the Australian
high commission, Dawn has learnt.

Meanwhile, the British visa processing centres in Islamabad as well as in
Karachi had been temporarily closed, a source said. A spokesperson for the
British High Commission confirmed that a terror threat had been received by the
visa processing centre in Islamabad, adding that it would reopen once the threat
was over.

The source said that the visa processing centre had received a letter warning
that it would be blown up between Sept 2 and 5.

Security agencies have been put on high alert in the light of intelligence that
two suspected suicide bombers -- Mansoor Junior and Azam Sher -- had left Dera
Ismail Khan to carry out suicide attacks, possibly at sensitive installations in
Lahore, Islamabad and Karachi.

A report said the suspected suicide bombers were between the ages of 15 and 16,
of average height and had a fair complexion.

In the wake of the intelligence, the inspectors general of Islamabad, Lahore and
Karachi had been intimated about the terror threat and directed to take all
possible security measures.

The number of security personnel in plainclothes has been raised and police
patrolling has been increased around the UK visa application centre in G/9
sector of Islamabad.

The source said the Australian High Commission had received a similar threat.

Meanwhile, the chief security officer to the prime minister has asked security
officials to scan cameras and other equipment carried by journalists during
Yousuf Raza Gilani's engagements.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 05 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 6, 2008 Saturday

German prosecutors release details of planned Sauerland terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 345 words


Text of report by independent German news agency ddp

Karlsruhe/Duesseldorf - On Friday [5 September], the Federal Supreme Court
Prosecutors released details of the indictment against the presumed Islamist
terrorists arrested a year ago in Sauerland. For the first time therein, the
investigators name the locations of the car bomb attacks planned by the three
suspected terrorists.

Among others, they were Frankfurt am Main, Ramstein, Dortmund, Duesseldorf,
Cologne, Stuttgart, and Munich. It is said that the objective was "to carry out
attacks with explosives in Germany, especially against US citizens and US
installations with the highest possible number of victims."

In this connection, the three men had intended "to build explosive charges based
on hydrogen peroxide and to explode them as car bombs in rented vehicles." As
the targets of the attacks, they took into consideration locations such as
restaurants, pubs, discotheques, and airports. According to the indictment, the
attacks were supposed to take place before the Bundestag decision on the
extension of the Bundeswehr operation in Afghanistan in the scope of the ISAF
[International Security Assistance Force] on 12 October 2007.

The quantity of 35-per cent hydrogen peroxide solution obtained by the three men
would have yielded an explosive mix with a force comparable to about 410 kg of
TNT. In July 2007, however, special forces were secretly able to replace the
content of the 12 barrels with a harmless 3-per cent solution.

The accused are two German converts, 29-year-old Fritz Gelowicz from Ulm and
22-year-old Daniel Schneider from Saarland, and the 29-year-old Turkish Moslem
Adem Yilmaz from Langen in Hessen. Gelowicz is seen as the ringleader of a
German cell of the foreign terrorist group "Islamic Jihad Union" (IJU), which
maintains contacts with Al-Qa'idah.

The three men are accused of membership in a foreign and a domestic terrorist
association, as stated in the indictment brought before the Duesseldorf Higher
Regional Court.

Source: ddp news agency, Berlin, in German 1044 gmt 5 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 7, 2008

US-born terror chief 'killed' in air attack;
Rock fan who became bin Laden's propaganda expert may be victim of new onslaught
against al-Qaeda

BYLINE: NICK MEO

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1014  words


WESTERN INTELLIGENCE sources in Pakistan believe that al-Qaeda's prize American
recruit and propaganda chief may have been killed in a CIA-directed air strike.

Months of attacks by unmanned US Predator aircraft have caused carnage among the
middle ranks of terrorist leaders in the lawless lands along the border with
Afghanistan, where al-Qaeda remains dangerous despite suffering a serious defeat
in Iraq.

Their victims have included experienced Arab leaders and, it is now thought,
Adam Gadahn, a former heavy-metal fan and so-called "killer computer nerd''
originally from California. Nothing has been heard from him for months, leading
intelligence experts to conclude that he may be dead.

Gadahn was credited with helping transform al-Qaeda's al-Sahab propaganda wing
into a slick operation that communicates in fluent English and produces
professional-quality DVDs, including one for Osama bin Laden last year.

He may, however, have fallen victim to an expanded programme of Predator
assassinations which in the past year targeted and killed many of al-Qaeda's
military commanders and terrorist trainers.

Jihadists around the world will be watching as closely as intelligence officials
this week to see whether Gadahn - also known as Azzam al-Ameriki - produces a
new video message to mark September 11, as he has done every year since 2003.

If there is no message it will be taken as near certain confirmation that he is
dead. It was thought that he may have been  killed either in a strike by
Hellfire missiles, or perhaps by jihadi colleagues jealous of his success. Now,
however, he is thought to have been a victim of an attack launched from a
remotely piloted aircraft in January which killed al-Qaeda's then military
commander, Abu Laith al-Libi, in Mir Ali, Waziristan.

Al-Libi was the most prominent of a series of terrorist leaders to be killed in
recent months. Abu Saeed al-Masri, who was implicated in attacks on Britain, was
killed in July. Syrians, Somalis and Kuwaitis have also been killed.

Evan Kohlmann, an investigator with the Nine Eleven Finding Answers (Nefa)
foundation which monitors terrorist groups, said: "Al-Qaeda acknowledges that
several of its leaders have been taken out. There aren't that many experienced
leaders left in the middle ranks and they are being replaced by younger guys
with no credentials but lots of enthusiasm.''

Experts fear that younger leaders will attempt to prove themselves by launching
bloody attacks such as the suicide bombing at a munitions factory in Pakistan
last month that killed 70.

Gadahn took on real importance as al-Qaeda's best known Westerner. He also
became the poster boy of would-be jihadis around the world who are radicalised
on the internet - and identify with a former Orange County teenager who once
reviewed heavy-metal bands before finding radical Islam and travelling to
Pakistan in 1998.

His rants about globalisation and the US mortgage meltdown struck a chord with
the alienated loners who are targeted by al-Qaeda.

Mr Kohlmann said: "The people in the dark world of online jihad, the ones who
watch the videos from Iraq, are the ones he speaks to. They are dangerous
because they could become home-grown jihadis.''

Another possibility being considered by intelligence officials is that Gadahn
may have been killed by rivals, or demoted if jealous colleagues decided that he
was too close to Osama bin Laden. Last year he appeared to have coached bin
Laden for propaganda videos.

But his most likely fate seems to have been death by Predator, the deadliest
weapon against foreign terrorists on Pakistani soil.

The lawless tribal region along the Afghanistan border is still al-Qaeda's main
base. US troops cannot officially venture there, and the use of Predators is
highly controversial in Pakistan. It is a legal grey area but Predator attacks
have become commonplace.

Refugee tribesmen from the Bajaur region in Pakistan's North-West Frontier
province told The Sunday Telegraph that pilotless drones fly overhead
constantly, hunting for Taliban and al-Qaeda targets. They are armed with
Hellfire missiles that can be fired by an operator thousands of miles away in
the United States.

Establishing exactly how many al-Qaeda targets have been killed in the lawless
region is difficult, but Nefa believes dozens of mid-level leaders have died
along with their bodyguards and followers. Many civilians have also been killed
in attacks, causing widespread anger in Pakistan.

But there are signs that despite the effectiveness of the assassination
programme, al-Qaeda is rebuilding in Pakistan. It has forged an alliance with
resurgent Taliban guerrillas in both Afghanistan and Pakistan. New recruits -
including battle-hardened veterans who have withdrawn from Iraq - are thought to
be coming in from the Gulf, and the terrorist organisation stands to benefit
from the political turmoil in Pakistan.

Richard Barrett, the head of the United Nations' al-Qaeda and Taliban Monitoring
Team, said that al-Qaeda's immediate aim is to carve out a space where it is
secure, with better training facilities. It hopes to achieve that by working
with the Taliban. He warned too that al-Qaeda is determined to strike the West
again after suffering defeat in Iraq and reverses elsewhere.

"They keep on making warnings,'' he said, "and from their point of view they
have been unlucky with some recent attacks.

"We certainly shouldn't be complacent - they want something to happen, and they
take a long view. They have suffered some reverses, but the idea of al-Qaeda is
still potent.''

A key al-Qaeda objective is to become more closely integrated with the Taliban.
Mr Barrett said: "They have intermarried in villages, which provides them with a
social glue. They can bring expertise and knowledge of the outside world which
is lacking among the Taliban.''

He warned that charismatic but uneducated young Pakistani leaders in the tribal
areas can easily be influenced by al-Qaeda.

He said: "The West has to make it clear to the Pakistani Taliban that they will
never be left alone while they are close to foreign Arab jihadis.''

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 9, 2008 Tuesday

Sri Lankan forces crush major terror attack in north - website

LENGTH: 247 words


Text of report by Sri Lankan Ministry of Defence, Public Security, Law and Order
website on 9 September

Latest military reports received from Vavuniya reveal that a major attack
launched by LTTE [Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam] terrorists at the security
forces headquarters Wanni and Air Force Base Vavuniya early this morning (9
September) was completely foiled.

According to the reports, the terrorists launched a pre-dawn ground assault
coordinated with artillery fire and an air raid with the intention of causing
severe damage to the Air Force assets in the Vavuniya air base.

Defence sources in Vavuniya state, the terrorists launched artillery fire to the
Army camp in order to prevent counter attack and directed their ground assault
at the airbase. However, valiant soldiers moved forward amid heavy enemy
artillery fire and crushed the terror ground assault completely. According to
the available information 10 bodies of slain LTTE cadres have been found so far.

Meanwhile, Sri Lanka Air Force fighter jets intercepted two LTTE light aircraft
fleeing after failed mission at Vavuniya Air force base and shot down one of the
aircraft in the Mullaittivu skies.

Ten soldiers laid down their lives and 15 others suffered injuries. One police
constable was killed and eight others sustained injuries due to the enemy
artillery fire. Five Air Force personnel also suffered injuries.

Source: Sri Lanka Ministry of Defence, Public Security, Law and Order website in
English 09 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                           September 9, 2008 Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Three guilty of plotting UK terror bomb attacks

BYLINE: ALISON CHIESA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 186 words


THREE Islamic extremists are facing lengthy prison sentences after being found
guilty of conspiring to kill hundreds of people in a terrorist bombing campaign.

They were members of an east London al Qaeda-inspired terror cell that planned
to detonate home-made bombs in attacks on British targets including Heathrow
Airport, a jury at Woolwich Crown Court found.

But following a five-month trial the jurors failed to reach verdicts on
prosecution claims that the men were plotting an unprecedented wave of suicide
bombings on transatlantic airliners. The three - Abdulla Ahmed Ali, 27, Assad
Sarwar, 28, and Tanvir Hussain, 27 - had  admitted planning a series of
small-scale headline-grabbing bomb attacks.

But, by a majority of 10 to two, the jurors yesterday rejected their claims that
they did not plan to kill or hurt anyone .

The  ury deliberated for 56 hours  but could not agree verdicts on whether
another four Muslim men were  involved in the conspiracy to murder. All seven
men earlier admitted conspiring to cause a public nuisance by distributing
videos threatening suicide attacks in Britain.

News Focus Page13

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                          September 10, 2008 Wednesday

9/11 service;
The victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks will be remembered at Exmouth's Phear
Park tomorrow at 1.20pm.

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 12 words


A memorial to those who lost their lives was erected in the park in 2003.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                          September 10, 2008 Wednesday

United Nations: Secretary-General, At Symposium, Says Scourge Of Terrorism
Attacks Humanity Itself; Voices Of Victims 'Strongest Argument Why It Can Never
Be Justified'

LENGTH: 1104 words


RDATE:09092008

Following is UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon's statement at the Symposium on
Supporting Victims of Terrorism in New York, 9 September:

Today is a historic day for the United Nations. We come together with a common
and unwavering purpose: the support of victims of terrorism.

We are honoured and humbled to have as our guests individuals who bear directly
the scars, physically and mentally, from unspeakable acts of terrorism and
experts who have attempted to understand and help victims.

Some of you have been injured or disabled in terror attacks, your wounds a daily
reminder of the viciousness of terrorism.

Some of you have been kidnapped and held captive, deprived of a most fundamental
human right: your freedom.

Some of you have lost loved ones -- sisters, brothers, mothers, fathers,
daughters and sons, whose lives have been ended by senseless and indiscriminate
murder.

Most of you have been haunted by images and memories too horrific to live with
and struggled with ears deaf and indifferent to your plight.

All of you have dedicated your lives to denouncing the evil of terrorism, to
making the voice of the victims heard, and to supporting others who have
suffered.

You have come all the way to New York to bear witness to one of the great
scourges of our time. From many different countries, religions and ethnicities,
you demonstrate that terrorism does not discriminate among victims. In your
diversity, you stand for hundreds of thousands around the world who have
suffered loss and injury from terrorism.

Together, we remember and pay tribute to all those who have been victims of
terrorism in far too many places.

Let us remember Bali, Beslan and Bombay.

Let us remember Algiers, Baghdad and Casablanca.

Let us remember Kabul, Riyadh and Nairobi.

Let us remember London, New York, San Vincente and Madrid.

Let us remember Istanbul, Islamabad, Jerusalem and Dar-es-Salaam.

The list keeps growing longer, bringing with it greater pain and grief that
cascades mercilessly through families, communities and nations.

Each act reminds us that terrorism is global. It can affect anyone, anywhere. It
targets all ethnic groups, religions, nationalities and civilizations. It
attacks humanity itself.

And it is for the sake of humanity that we must create a global forum for your
voice and listen to you, the victims.

Your stories of how terrorism has affected your lives are our strongest argument
why it can never be justified. By giving a human face to the painful
consequences of terrorism, you help build a global culture against it. You are
the real heroes in the global struggle against terrorism. You humble the world
by your strength and courage.

You deserve support and solidarity. You deserve social recognition, respect and
dignity. You deserve to have your needs addressed. You deserve to have your
human rights defended. And you deserve justice.

Like many of you, I have witnessed the aftermath of terror. I was serving at the
United Nations in New York at the time of the terrorist attacks of 11 September
2001. My heart went out to the victims of that grim day who, like me, were New
Yorkers going about their lives.

Six years later, in December last year, I was profoundly shocked when I visited
the grounds of the United Nations compound in Algiers, which had been ripped
apart by a terrorist bomb blast. I met with survivors and with the families of
the victims, encounters that left me deeply moved.

I had seen the devastation from a distance in New York, but in Algiers, I walked
through the rubble of tragedy. I looked into the faces of the children whose
parents had lost their lives while serving the United Nations. And I caught a
glimpse, for the first time, of the reality that many of you here live with
every day -- of what it means to be a victim of terrorism. I lost members of my
United Nations family that day.

Since that time, I feel each loss more deeply. And the United Nations family has
lost too many of our staff to terrorist attacks not only in Algiers but
elsewhere. Just last week, I attended a ceremony in Geneva commemorating the
heinous attack five years ago at the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, in
which we lost some of our best and bravest staff.

Twenty-two people were killed and over 150 wounded. I met with some 300
survivors, victims and their families. And I was overwhelmed with grief at how
fresh the wounds still are five years after the attack.

So today, it fills me with pride that we are convening at the United Nations to
show solidarity with victims of terrorism, and to find better ways to support
them. I am heartened by the overwhelming interest. It is a testament to the
great importance we are attaching to supporting victims of terrorism.

I am equally encouraged by the high level of expertise here today. We are joined
by a number of eminent terrorism experts. But we are also joined by experts
whose focus of work is on violence and conflict situations. It is time to expand
the small community that works on terrorism and see whether new insights can be
brought to bear by those with experience in studying conflict and violence. And
we will hear from Member States who have responded to terrorist attacks by
developing assistance programmes.

I look forward to an open dialogue, in which we all share our experiences and
practices. We have so much to learn from each other. In this way, we can
strengthen the international community's solidarity with victims, and improve
our understanding of their needs and how Governments, the United Nations and
civil society can better support them.

That is the fundamental purpose of this meeting.

The United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy, unanimously adopted by all
United Nations Member States in 2006, called on us to stop the dehumanization of
victims of terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.

In the Strategy, Member States committed themselves to consolidating national
systems of assistance that would promote the needs of victims of terrorism and
their families and facilitate the normalization of their lives; they pledged to
promote international solidarity in support of victims of terrorism; and they
promised to promote and protect the rights of victims of terrorism.

Today, we must strive to give practical meaning to these commitments. Let us
embark then on this journey together, in mutual respect and determination.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                          September 11, 2008 Thursday

9/11 victims remembered in town silence;
Two minutes' silence is being observed in Exmouth today to commemorate the
seventh anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks in New York.

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 268 words


Wreaths will be laid in Phear Park, where a memorial stone to honour those who
died in the World Trade Centre  was unveiled.

Exmouth firefighters   befriended many of the rescuers who tried to help save
the lives of people trapped in the collapsed buildings.

Ceremony organiser Lionel Howell said   it was the town's way of reminding
America  that the loss of life caused when the two hijacked  planes were flown
into the skyscrapers is still remembered here.

The ceremony begins at 1.46pm - the time in Britain that the first plane
struck.

"Our firefighters will parade at the inscribed memorial stone, which the people
of Exmouth raised money for as a lasting tribute to all those brave people in
New York," Mr Howell said.

"The police will also be represented and also present will be mayor Joy Whipps
and pupils from the community college.

"Wreaths will be placed by all these people and the memorial service will be
conducted by Father Tony Osman."

Royal Marines from the Commando Training Centre at Lympstone are also expected
to set off two flares and also due at the ceremony is nurse Charlotte Tuckett,
whose cousin Stephen Lawn was among those killed in the attacks.

The American flag will fly at half mast outside London fireman Rob Newby's
Topsham home throughout today.

Mr Newby befriended Raymond Riley, 46, who has been forced to leave the New York
fire service on grounds of ill health, caused by dust he inhaled when he joined
the rescue mission.

"I have never met Raymond but hope to in the future," he said.

He said they first made contact after 9/11 when the London brigade befriended
New York firemen.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                    September 11, 2008 Thursday 2:47 AM BST

CONCERTS TO MARK SEPTEMBER 11 TERROR ATTACKS ANNIVERSARY

BYLINE: Laura May and Wesley Johnson, PA

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 487 words


Simultaneous concerts on both sides of the Atlantic will be held today to mark
the anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks.

After performances featuring musicians who lost loved ones in the atrocity,
audiences in London and New York will join the artists in a rendition of John
Lennon and Paul McCartney's classic Let It Be.

More than 200 free concerts have been organised across the world on the seventh
anniversary of the attacks.

Almost 3,000 people, including 67 Britons, were killed when terrorists hijacked
aircraft and flew them into New York's World Trade Centre and the Pentagon on
September 11 2001.

London's concert will take place in Grosvenor Square at the same time as
performers take to the stage in the British Memorial Garden in Hanover Square,
New York.

Performers in London will include Coventry singer/songwriter Rob Halligan, whose
father died in the World Trade Centre.

Singer Kris Buckle, the London Welsh Chorale and the South African opera singer
Siphiwo Ntshebe are also on the bill.

The annual concerts were the brainchild of New York businesswoman Hakuro Smith,
who in 2002 decided to try to turn September 11 from a day of anguish into ``a
day of music to celebrate our universal humanity''.

She said: ``The September Concert is not a memorial event. It's an opportunity
for people to come together once a year and be united in hopes for peace and
celebrate our universal humanity. Music has the magical power to do that.''

On Monday, the president of a project to build a national US memorial to those
who died in the attacks said that it must be open by the 10th anniversary.

Speaking in New York, Joe Daniels said it was both ``possible and essential''
for the memorial and museum, which will be on the site of the World Trade Centre
towers in New York, to be opened by September 11 2011.

``It must be a priority,'' he said.

Mr Daniels said more than 350 million US dollars (£197 million) had been raised
for the national memorial and museum, and the first steel installations went
into the ground last week.

Work at the site is dependent upon the contents of a September 30 report by the
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which has said its part of the
redevelopment of the World Trade Centre site was behind schedule and over budget
earlier this year.

Bob Lieber, New York City's deputy mayor for economic development, said: ``There
have been un-meetable deadlines, unrealistic expectations, that have taken place
over the past seven years.''

He said he was ``eagerly'' looking forward to the report, which would attach ``a
real budget and a real timetable'' to the projects.

``Seven years ago this week, the eyes of the world turned to look at Lower
Manhattan in horror,'' he said.

``The recovery of Lower Manhattan continues to be one of the most remarkable
episodes of recovery in the history of this great city.

``It may not be as fast as we would like, but it is in fact taking place.''

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                    September 11, 2008 Thursday 2:47 AM BST

GLOBAL AUDIENCE WATCHED TERROR ATTACKS UNFOLD

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson, PA, in New York

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1000 words


Millions around the world watched on live TV as terrorists struck at the heart
of the United States on September 11 2001, killing thousands and leaving the
most famous skyline in the world changed forever.

The United States was brought to a standstill as, within an hour, the most
powerful symbols of US economic power had collapsed and a passenger airliner
crashed into the Pentagon, the heart of the US military machine.

Another passenger plane crashed about 80 miles south east of Pittsburgh, its
apparent target Washington.

Almost 3,000 people, including 67 Britons, were killed by the attacks seven
years ago after suicide bombers seized four airliners on domestic flights.

Airports were closed, flights grounded and borders sealed, and jet fighters were
scrambled above major cities, as the US tried to comprehend the enormity of what
had happened.

For many it was the nation's greatest humiliation since Pearl Harbour, the
attack which triggered US entry into the Second World War.

The first strike was against the Trade Centre. A jet smashed high up into one of
the towers where tens of thousands of people work every day.

As horrified witnesses described the terrifying scenes, a second jet was filmed
by CNN slamming into the second tower lower down, bursting into flames and
leaving another gash in the building.

Smoke poured from the two towers. Eyewitnesses reported seeing bodies plunging
from the buildings as the flames spread out of control.

Within an hour, both towers had collapsed, sending clouds of dust billowing down
the streets of Manhattan and across the harbour as survivors, many of whom were
staggering from the building after the attacks, fled for their lives.

On a school visit in Florida at the time, US President George Bush put the
military on high alert.

``Make no mistake,'' he said. ``The US will hunt down and punish those
responsible for this cowardly act.''

The President was flown to the security of Barksdale Air Force Base in
Louisiana, then later to the US Strategic Air Command headquarters in Nebraska.

The scenes of unbelievable destruction were beamed live around the world on TV.

In a measure of the carnage on the ground, five hours after the attacks there
were no estimates of the overall death toll, but hospitals around New York were
struggling to cope with the casualties.

New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani took charge and urged people to be calm and to
walk out of Lower Manhattan.

``I never thought I would see anything like this happen,'' he said.

``I got there after the first plane hit and before the second. Watching people
jump from the top of the World Trade Centre was an unbelievable sight.''

His Churchill-inspired leadership led to him receiving an honorary knighthood
from the Queen after the tough politician showed his tender side as he attended
hundreds of funerals and memorial services in the wake of the worst terrorist
outrage in history.

As shockwaves from the outrage reverberated around the world, Prime Minister
Tony Blair called an emergency meeting of the Cobra security committee and
announced a range of security measures at British airports.

Britain would stand full square alongside the US in the battle to drive the
``new evil'' of terrorism from the world, he said.

Speaking in Downing Street, Mr Blair said: ``This is not a battle between the
United States and terrorism, but between the free and democratic world and
terrorism.

``We, therefore, here in Britain stand shoulder to shoulder with our American
friends in this hour of tragedy and we, like them, will not rest until this evil
is driven from our world.''

Key EU officials rushed back to their Brussels headquarters at short notice and
called emergency meetings to discuss how they could help the US.

Nato also called an urgent meeting of ambassadors from its 19 members to discuss
the security implications of the attacks. European allies expressed their
solidarity with the United States.

World travel was thrown into chaos. Many US-bound flights had already left the
UK when American officials closed all US airports.

Thousands of passengers, including the Duke of York, were diverted, or turned
round mid-Atlantic.

In the UK, Queen expressed her ``growing disbelief and total shock''.

Workers in London left some high-profile buildings amid concern that they could
be the next target.

The London Stock Exchange, the Lloyds building, Canary Wharf and the NatWest
Tower in central London were among those with workers streaming out as panic
spread across the world.

Armed police were sent to the US embassy in London's Grosvenor Square. Security
was also stepped up at British military bases.

Outgoing Conservative leader William Hague suspended the party's leadership
election for 24 hours as a mark of respect to the victims of the terror attacks.

But in the West Bank and Gaza, thousands of Palestinians celebrated the terror
attacks, chanting ``God is Great'' and distributing sweets to passers-by, even
as their leader, Yasser Arafat, said he was horrified.

The US government had become increasingly unpopular in the region, with many
Palestinians accusing Washington of siding with Israel.

The name of Osama bin Laden, the world's most wanted terrorist, emerged as the
man responsible - just three weeks earlier he had vowed to unleash an
unprecedented attack against the US.

He remains on the FBI's ``most wanted list'', with a reward of up to 25 million
US dollars (£14.2 million) for his capture, today.

His terrorist outfit was also blamed for two bomb attacks on US embassies in
Africa in August 1998, and also the 1993 bomb attack on the World Trade Centre.

The Foreign Office warned Britons in Muslim countries of the risk of violence as
a result of the attacks on the US.

The atrocities at the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon may lead to
``heightened tension and disruption worldwide'', the Foreign Office said in a
statement.

``All British nationals overseas should exercise caution and avoid situations
where there might be tension and stay in touch with fast-moving events.''

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 12, 2008 Friday

Kuwaiti Shi'i cleric condemns 9/11 attacks, calls for pursuing "terrorists"

LENGTH: 518 words


Text of report by Kuwaiti newspaper Al-Watan website on 10 September

[Unattributed report: "Al-Mahri: 'Islam Fought Terrorism before the United
States'"]

Scholar Muhammad Baqir al-Mahri, representative of the Shi'i [religious]
authorities in Kuwait, said that Islam has fought terrorism, terrorists and
hypocrites even before the United States thought about it.

Al-Mahri said in a statement he made on the occasion of 9/11 attacks: "The
perpetrators of this criminal terrorist incident are but a clique of criminals
who have affiliation with a school that is a terrorist organization which is far
away from Islam and its tolerant shari'ah in order to distort the reputation of
the real Islam, and hurt Muslims in the United States and Europe after they were
subjected to brainwashing by their clerics based on false intellectual thoughts.

He adds: "As we condemned this savage barbaric operation of 2001, we condemn
today the destruction of the twin towers of the World Trade Centre in New York
and consider this attack as a criminal act that is far away from the teachings
of the Koran and Islamic Shari'ah. We consider those who carried those acts as
apostates whose abode is hell, and the worst of fates. Islam disowns itself
fully from them and they are not related to it, so the super powers have no
right to accuse Muslims of carrying them out."

He says: "Let the whole world, especially the United States, know that Islam has
fought terrorism, terrorists, and hypocrites even before the United States
thought about it. Islam has warned of those Islamized groups which are the
sources of evil, tribulation, terrorism, killing, and crimes in the Islamic
countries and in the whole world. On the occasion of this sad anniversary, let
us unite our efforts and position as Muslims to fight those who hold terrorist
thoughts, ban their books that encourage terrorism, bring to justice their
clerics and prosecute them for selling out their religion for prestige, fame,
and gathering disciples around them. Those [clerics] may have done so because of
their ignorance so they issued fatwas, that have nothing to do with Islam,
sanctioning the killing of innocents.

He maintains: "Therefore, all real divine Muslim clerics, Sunni and Shia Islamic
movements, especially the constitutional and salafist movements and all groups
that affiliated with them to denounce and condemn this terrorist attack, and
other savage operations carried out in Pakistan, Iraq, Algeria or any other
places by those Islamized groups. We have to do so in a way characterized with
transparency, clarity, and openness in order to avoid the Islamic movements
being accused by the United States and other great powers of terrorism and
funding terrorist group."

He affirms: "We say fearlessly and bravely that all suicide bombings that took
place in Algeria, Indonesia, Jordan, Iraq, Pakistan and Kuwait run counter to
the holy Shari'ah and those who carry them out are apostates and those who issue
such fatwas are responsible before God and people and will have severe
punishment on doomsday.

Source: Al-Watan website, Kuwait, in Arabic 10 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                           September 12, 2008 Friday

Town pays its tribute to 9/11 victims;
A poignant ceremony to mark the seventh anniversary of the terrorist attack on
New York's World Trade Center took place in Exmouth's Phear Park yesterday.

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 181 words


Six wreaths were laid on a memorial stone, which the town erected in honour of
the thousands who died when hijacked planes struck the Twin Towers and also the
Pentagon.

Exmouth mayor Joy Whipps attended the ceremony with fellow town councillors and
18 firefighters from Exmouth, Budleigh Salterton, Topsham and Sidmouth.

Three paramedics also lined up, joined by four pupils from Exmouth Community
College and local police.

Exeter nurse  Charlotte Tuckett laid a wreath in memory of her cousin Stephen
Lawn, who died in the attack.

Also joining the ceremony was Bernard Greenaway, who laid a wreath for the Royal
Air Force Association, and bugler David Adams, who played the Last Post.

The wife of an American marine, temporarily based in Devon and   living in
Exmouth, left a tribute.

Jennifer was with her two young children, Holden, nine, and three- year-old
Hudson.

"This has been a wonderful memorial. It is good to see Exmouth remembering all
those who were killed," said Jennifer, from California.

Prayers  were also said during church services and at evensong at Exeter
Cathedral last night.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           September 12, 2008 Friday

East yorkshire soldiers could protect gordon brown;
Soldiers from Hull and the East Riding will be sent to Baghdad next month to
protect VIPs from terrorist attacks, the Mail can today reveal.

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 220 words


Final preparations are being made by 1st Battalion, The Yorkshire Regiment (1
Yorks), for the mission.

It could see troops protecting government ministers and other dignitaries on
visits to the war zone.

The Mail first reported the possibility of our region's troops being used as
"force protection" in July.

Now 1 Yorks has confirmed Alpha Company - totalling about 80 men - will be sent
to the Iraqi capital.

The 500-strong battalion, which recruits heavily from Hull and the East Riding,
will begin arriving in the war zone late next month.

A spokesman said: "Alpha Company will provide a protection force, assisting
senior officers and visitors in Baghdad."

Charlie Company and Support Company will both be based in Iraqi's second-largest
city Basra, where they will help train the Iraqi Army.

Bravo Company will not be deploying to Iraq. Instead, it will be serving in
Kosovo, in the Balkans.

According to the 1 Yorks spokesman, troops not going to Baghdad will quickly
join Military Transition Teams.

The teams, which are typically five-strong, live with and train the Iraqi Army.

The soldiers will deploy under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Jonny Price
MBE.

Lieu Col Price grew up in East Yorkshire and attended Pocklington School.

He replaced the former Commanding Officer Lieutenant Colonel Andrew Jackson on
August 26.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2008 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           September 12, 2008 Friday

East yorkshire soldiers could protect gordon brown;
Soldiers from Hull and the East Riding will be sent to Baghdad next month to
protect VIPs from terrorist attacks, the Mail can today reveal.

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 220 words


Final preparations are being made by 1st Battalion, The Yorkshire Regiment (1
Yorks), for the mission.

It could see troops protecting government ministers and other dignitaries on
visits to the war zone.

The Mail first reported the possibility of our region's troops being used as
"force protection" in July.

Now 1 Yorks has confirmed Alpha Company - totalling about 80 men - will be sent
to the Iraqi capital.

The 500-strong battalion, which recruits heavily from Hull and the East Riding,
will begin arriving in the war zone late next month.

A spokesman said: "Alpha Company will provide a protection force, assisting
senior officers and visitors in Baghdad."

Charlie Company and Support Company will both be based in Iraqi's second-largest
city Basra, where they will help train the Iraqi Army.

Bravo Company will not be deploying to Iraq. Instead, it will be serving in
Kosovo, in the Balkans.

According to the 1 Yorks spokesman, troops not going to Baghdad will quickly
join Military Transition Teams.

The teams, which are typically five-strong, live with and train the Iraqi Army.

The soldiers will deploy under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Jonny Price
MBE.

Lieu Col Price grew up in East Yorkshire and attended Pocklington School.

He replaced the former Commanding Officer Lieutenant Colonel Andrew Jackson on
August 26.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 88


                         Copyright 2008 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                           September 12, 2008 Friday

Victims of September 11 terror attacks remembered

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 409 words


Relatives of victims killed at the World Trade Center gathered in lower
Manhattan for readings from dignitaries and a recitation of the names of the
dead. Later Barack Obama and John McCain visited ground zero to pay silent
respects.

"Today marks the seventh anniversary of the day our world was broken," Mayor
Michael Bloomberg said, calling September 11, 2001, a "day that began like any
other and ended as none ever has".

The ritual at ground zero included moments of silence at 8:46am, 9:03am and
9:59am and 10:29am - the times when two hijacked jets slammed into the trade
center buildings and the twin towers fell.

Services were also held in Pennsylvania and at the Pentagon, where a new
memorial was dedicated.

Among the speakers at ground zero were three children who were very young when
their father went to work at the World Trade Center seven years ago and never
came home.

"I remember playing in the yard with him. I remember him pulling my wagon. He
was strong. He always made me feel safe," said Alex Salamone, wearing the soccer
jersey of his father, John. "I wish I could remember more, but we were so young
when he died."

Edward Bracken, who lost his sister, Lucy A Fishman, said she was "murdered by
coward men using their religion to say they are right and we are wrong," then
added, "Pray for the men and women who sleep on the ground every night in the
Middle East to keep our world safe".

Relatives of victims began arriving at dawn at ground zero, now a huge
construction site. American flags were draped over silent cranes, and some
families held signs saying "We miss you," "We love you" or "You will never be
forgotten".

The family of victim Michael Diehl went to ground zero wearing white T-shirts
bearing his photo and 9/11/01.

"It's still very hard for us to come here. It doesn't get any easier," said
Diehl's sister-in-law, Norma Linguito. "I just wish they'd get the memorial up
so we can have something, a marker, to remember everyone."

Family members and students representing more than 90 countries that lost
victims on September 11 read the names of 2,751 people killed in New York, one
more than last year. The city restored Sneha Philip, a woman who mysteriously
vanished on September 10, 2001, to its official death toll this year after a
court ruled she was likely killed at the site.

McCain and Obama agreed to pull their campaign ads for the day and were
appearing together last night at a forum on volunteerism and service.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 12, 2008 Friday

United Nations: Security Council Strongly Condemns Deadly Terrorist Attack In
Lebanon

LENGTH: 256 words


RDATE:11092008

The following Security Council press statement on Lebanon was read out today by
Council President Michel Kafando ( Burkina Faso):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the
terrorist attack in Lebanon on 10 September 2008, which killed Saleh Aridi, a
member of the Lebanese Democratic Party, and injured several other persons.

They expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the
victims and to the Government of Lebanon.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of this reprehensible act of terrorism to
justice, commended the commitment of the Government of Lebanon to this end and
urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the
Lebanese authorities in this regard. They also recalled the need to put an end
to impunity in Lebanon.

The members of the Security Council emphasized the importance of the unity of
all the Lebanese people. They also reiterated their full support for all ongoing
efforts in Lebanon to combat terrorism, solidify democratic institutions, engage
in political dialogue and pursue national reconciliation.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 12, 2008 Friday

United Nations: Secretary-General strongly condemns lethal lebanon terrorist
attack

LENGTH: 124 words


RDATE:11092008

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon:

The Secretary-General strongly condemns the terrorist attack in Lebanon on 10
September that killed Mr. Saleh Aridi, a member of the Lebanese Democratic
Party. He conveys his deepest condolences to the family of Mr. Aridi. The
Secretary-General hopes that the perpetrators of this crime will be brought to
justice promptly. He calls on all parties to exercise restraint.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                           September 12, 2008 Friday

Axe terror as masked yobs attack school bus

BYLINE: wayne ankers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 373 words


AN axe-wielding masked gang launched a terrifying attack on a school bus full of
youngsters.

The bus, with about 30 children on board, was also battered with a crowbar and a
golf club. One pupil was injured in the attack.

It had stopped at the junction of Simonsway and Shadow Moss Road, Wythenshawe,
when the gang of five - all wearing dark hoodies and balaclavas - launched the
attack.

They used the weapons to smash windows on the bus, from top school St Ambrose
College in Hale Barns, and an axe was thrown straight through the vehicle,
narrowly missing the head of one boy.

Passenger George Fountain, 12, of Cheadle, told how it was lucky nobody was
seriously hurt.

The year-eight pupil said: "All of a sudden the gang appeared and I heard a big
smash and glass was everywhere.

"They had an axe and a crowbar and golf club and were acting like maniacs.

"The axe went through one window and just missed one of my friends. It then
smashed through the other side. It all happened very quickly and everyone had
their heads down.

The youngster said five windows were smashed and one boy suffered a cut near his
eye. He was treated at the scene by paramedics and taken to hospital as a
precaution.

George's mum Marilyn, 42, said: "It is very shocking. It is not something you
expect to happen on a school bus."

A police spokesman said the incident was being treated as a serious and
threatening attack.

The spokesman added: "There appear to be no serious injuries at the moment.
Inquiries into the circumstances surrounding the incident are ongoing." Michael
Thompson, Headteacher at St Ambrose College, confirmed one boy sustained a minor
cut in the attack.

He added: "The bus driver acted promptly and professionally, moving the bus to a
safe location and then contacting both the police and the college.

"Police were present within minutes and teachers, who made their way to the
incident immediately from St Ambrose College, some three miles away, arrived
shortly afterwards and stayed with the boys until a replacement bus arrived.

"St Ambrose would like to thank the police for their swift response and the bus
driver for his professional attitude.

"We believe it was a random attack and are being kept informed as police conduct
their investigation."

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 15, 2008 Monday

Russian Federal Security Service says plane crash not caused by terrorist attack

LENGTH: 132 words


Experts of the Federal Security Service (FSB) Directorate for Perm Territory
have analysed the wreckage of the Boeing-737 that crashed on 14 September in
Perm to find out if there had been a terrorist attack, corporate-owned Russian
news agency Interfax reported on 15 September.

"As a result of the preliminary analysis of the crash, no data pointing to a
possible terrorist act as the cause of the crash has been found," Interfax
quoted the FSB press service as saying.

Yuriy Chayka, the Russian Prosecutor-General, took the investigation of the
crash under his personal control because of the large number of victims and the
public attention the incident received, Interfax said in an earlier report on
the same day.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0646 gmt and 0746 gmt 15 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 15, 2008 Monday

US assaults in Pakistan 'could lead to London terror attacks'

BYLINE: Richard Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 477  words


AMERICA'S unprecedented raids inside Pakistan could provoke terrorist attacks in
London, Pakistan's high commissioner to Britain has warned.

Wajid Shamsul Hasan said the attacks on Taliban and

al-Qaeda suspects were making the streets of Britain "less safe'' and that
resentment was mounting among Pakistanis in the country, with community leaders
calling for that anger to be "organised''.

His remarks followed outrage in Pakistan over five attacks in the past 10 days,
including a ground assault in the town of Angoor Adda in which 20 people were
killed. US officials said they were all supporters of terrorism but Pakistan
insists that they were civilians, including women and children.

Mr Hasan said: "This will infuriate Muslims in this country and make the streets
of London less safe. There are one million Pakistanis in the diaspora here and
resentment is mounting. I'm being flooded by text messages from community
leaders saying we must organise our anger.

"The Americans' trigger-happy actions will radicalise young Muslims. They're
playing into the hands of the very militants we're supposed to be fighting.''

Pakistan recently completed its transition to democracy with the election as
president of Asif Ali Zardari but relations with the US are strained. President
George W Bush underscored the shift in strategy last week when he said Pakistan
and Afghanistan were part of the same "theatre'' of anti-terrorism operations.

Both US and British special forces have been carrying out "special
reconnaissance'' operations inside Pakistan following an agreement with Pervez
Musharraf, the previous president of Pakistan. The troops have used unmanned
Predator spy planes to track targets that are then attacked with Hellfire
missiles.

However, tactics became more direct with the raid on Angoor Adda, a small town
near the Afghan border, by three dozen heavily-armed marines and Navy Seals.

It is a crossing point from Pakistan to Afghanistan inhabited by Pashtun tribes,
the same ethnicity as the Taliban. It has long been believed that this is the
region where Osama bin Laden and his deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri, have found
refuge.

US defence officials confirmed that there was a new determination by Mr Bush to
hunt down bin Laden before his presidency ends in January. But Mr Hasan said the
"direct action'' missions were doing more damage than good.

"What have they gained out of this except animosity?'' he said. "They have not
killed or captured any prominent

al-Qaeda leader, but the collateral damage is responsible for hundreds of deaths
and the reaction is being felt everywhere in the country.''

Mr Zardari arrived in Britain yesterday and will hold talks with Gordon Brown
and David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary.

"We hope they will help convince the Americans to stop it, to give space to our
fledgling democracy and revive our economy,'' Mr Hasan said.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Runcorn and Widnes World

                           September 15, 2008 Monday

Masked men in terror attack

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (RUNCORN WIDNES NEWS)

LENGTH: 117 words


THREE masked men, one wielding a knife, burst into a house in Caldwell Road,
Widnes in a terrorising attack.

They verbally threatened a male occupant but he managed to chase them off.

The men were all white and had their faces hidden under black woollen
balaclavas.

The first offender was wearing a dark coloured hooded top and was between 5ft
11ins and 6ft 1in tall and in his late 20s.

The second man was shorter in height and of a skinny build.

The third accomplice was smaller again.

The attack happened at 10.10pm on Tuesday, September 2, in a house facing the
back of Riverside College.

Anyone with information can contact Det Con Scott on 01244 613936 or call
Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                           September 16, 2008 Tuesday

Student fled in terror following bottle attack

BYLINE: Simon Carr

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (DE LATESTNEWS)

LENGTH: 348 words


A TEENAGER has spoken of the moment a bottle was smashed in his face in a gang
attack after a night out with his girlfriend.

Student Martyn West, 17, needed 23 stitches in his face after the brutal assault
as he walked home from a railway station.

He had spent the evening with his girlfriend in Shirley, Southampton, and was
back in Romsey when he was beaten by three drunken teenagers.

The trainee chef was walking along Canal Walk at the turning to Mercer Way when
the gang approached him and asked if he had any cigarettes.

When he said he did not one of them said: "Let's smash him."

However, another said: "No, he's all right."

He went to shake Martyn's hand but as soon as he grabbed it he punched him in
the head and another broke a beer bottle across his face.

Martyn, who studies at Eastleigh College, said: "I was scared and I think if I
had been knocked down they would have just kept kicking me while I was on the
floor.

"I used to walk past groups of 20 men and not think anything was going to
happen. Now I don't want to go out at night at all."

Martyn, of Romsey, added: "Because one of them was being all right they lulled
me into a false sense of security.

"When I felt the bottle smash against my face all I could think of is I have to
get away and I ran off."

The gang chased him for a few yards but soon gave up and he was able to get to a
nearby friend's house in Withy Close and knocked the door covered in blood.

The friend's dad immediately called an ambulance, the police and Martyn's mum
Isobel.

Isobel said: "It is the worst phone call I have ever had.

"I screamed down the phone and went running round his friend's house in my
nightie.

"His face was swollen and he was covered in blood.

"The people must be like animals, there is no other way of describing them.

"I think if he had not had the instinct to run they might have killed him."

The attack left Martyn with a number of stitches over his face, his jaw is too
painful for him to eat still while he was also left with injuries to his hand.

Police are investigating.

Anyone with information can contact them on 0845 045 4545.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                           September 16, 2008 Tuesday

Raider Jailed For Terror Attack

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 325 words


AN intruder who punched a pregnant mum and her partner during a terrifying raid
is today beginning a four-year sentence behind bars.

Doreen Stephenson and Peter Hunton were asleep with their five-year-old daughter
when they were woken by their dog barking in the dead of night.

Mr Hunton went downstairs to investigate and calm the pet, Newcastle Crown Court
heard.

But he found Kevin Kirby already in the living room, beside the broken bay
window.

And instead of running, the drink-fuelled convicted robber followed Mr Hunton
back upstairs, threatened to kill him and lashed out at the couple in the
confrontation that followed.

Brave Mr Hunton was hit as he fought to wrestle Kirby out of the family's home
in Fenham.

Partner Ms Stephenson, 28 weeks' pregnant, was also punched as the struggle
spilled into the garden.

And although Kirby finally fled, he quickly targeted a second nearby home and
attacked the owner there when he was disturbed, the court heard.

Kirby, 29, of Beech Grove Road, Cruddas Park, admitted offences of burglary, as
well as assault by beating.

And passing sentence, Judge John Evans warned only a substantial jail sentence
could follow.

"In the early hours you broke into the home of Mr Hunton and Ms Stephenson,"
Judge Evans said.  "They were alerted to your presence by the dog barking.

"But far from taking to your heels, you pursued Mr Hunton. You punched him a
number of times.

"You have a bad record. This was a particularly bad burglary.

"The fact you were drunk is no mitigation whatsoever."

Kirby had been jailed for robbery in 1996, the court heard.

He was then given a sentence of almost eight years in 2001 for robbery and
burglary.

Chris Mitford, defending, said Kirby had been tackling his drink addiction since
his last prison release.

But he had got drunk on the anniversary of his father's death and staged the
break-ins.

"From the pre-sentence report it is evident he was making steady progress," Mr
Mitford told the court.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Cornish Guardian

                               September 17, 2008

Ground zero: Artist seeks nyc home for work;
A polruan artist hopes New York firefighters will display her painting of the
September 11 terror attacks in their premises.

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 323 words


Audrey Theodosia Bryant wants to donate Ground Zero - vision statement to the
firefighters in recognition of their outstanding and heroic attempts to rescue
those caught up in the 2001 destruction of the Twin Towers.

She is making inquiries to have the work, measuring 60cm by 50cm in its frame,
sent to America.

She said: "In 2001, after the twin towers were destroyed, I painted this picture
in oils to express all our hopes that the tragedy would lead to something
better.

"It is time hope rather than retaliation was uppermost in our minds. Nobody
wants to hang such a reminder of that day in their home but it has been set up
in my church at Lanteglos on the anniversary of the event.

"I was inspired to paint this picture because of my depth of feeling about all
the people who were affected by 9/11, their fears, sorrows, angers and their
need to do something."

Audrey, who has lived and worked in New York, said: "I was familiar with the
scale of the city, the motorways at Riverside, over the Brooklyn Bridge, to New
Jersey and leading out to the rest of this stupendous country.

"A motorway runs to the left of picture and the way the city lights throw their
beams onto the trees to create an almost theatrical backdrop is all around."

She said she loved the city when she was there.

"The figures stand on rubble held up by kerbstones, like tombstones, with the
names of all the dead engraved on them.  The little boy is clinging to his
father's knee, trusting he knows the way ahead," she said.

Audrey has been painting and writing poetry for as long as she has been able to
hold a crayon.  "It is a way of expressing my dreams and nightmares and my love
for people," she said.

She learned to use oils at Winchester College of Art and went to classes in New
York.

She said "After four children and several jobs which left no time for painting,
I came back to Cornwall in 1998, where my life began. I have been painting and
writing ever since."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 59


                        Copyright 2008 Cornish Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          September 17, 2008 Wednesday

International: Zardari and Brown in counter-terrorism talks: Pakistan leader
attacks US strikes on tribal regions: Plan to set up anti-terror headquarters in
London

BYLINE: Saeed Shah, Islamabad

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 532 words


Asif Ali Zardari, Pakistan's president, claimed British support against
unilateral US attacks inside Pakistan's tribal areas, as he laid out his
counter-terrorism plan to Gordon Brown in Downing Street yesterday.

There has been anger in Pakistan at recent US missile strikes against suspected
militants in its tribal territory, which borders Afghanistan, and an
unprecedented American ground raid earlier this month, which left 20 dead,
including women and children.

Speaking outside 10 Downing Street after his meeting with Gordon Brown Zardari
said there was "understanding among the British leadership that Pakistan be
helped with regard to unprovoked US missile firing in the tribal regions . . .
such action does not help democracy, and Mr Brown agreed to this point of view".

A joint Zardari-Brown statement made no mention of an agreement on the US
strikes, but said the extremists based in the tribal areas were "also impacting
on UK forces in Afghanistan".

Separately, Jack Straw, the justice secretary, who is on a visit to Pakistan,
made clear that British forces would not be entering the tribal areas. "We keep
our military action within the borders of Afghanistan," Straw said.

The US-Pakistan dispute is in danger of escalating. The Pakistan army suggested
yesterday that, if there were another US incursion, it would retaliate. "If
somebody comes into your area, will you just sit there and take the beating?"
said army spokesman Major General Athar Abbas. "We will certainly respond to
that."

Washington believes that some of the Taliban fighting the coalition in
Afghanistan enjoy refuge in Pakistan's tribal areas, and it seems to have lost
patience with Islamabad, which it accuses of not doing enough to go after the
militants.

Gen Ashfaq Kayani, Pakistan's army chief, has described the US ground assault as
"reckless" and stated that there was no agreement between Pakistan and the US to
allow such operations. There are concerns that the US move could destabilise
Pakistan's democracy, restored after elections in February following eight years
of military rule.

Last night, Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the US joint chiefs of staff,
arrived in Pakistan for talks with Kayani and other officials. The US incursion
is likely to top the agenda.

It is thought that Zardari outlined to Brown Pakistan's plan to combat
terrorism, which included a proposal to set up a dedicated cell inside the
Pakistani high commission in London to help track British Pakistanis suspected
of extremism. Most of the known terror plots in the UK have had some connection
to Pakistan and often involved a visit there for training.

Zardari sought Brown's help in promoting the idea of an anti-terror conference
of Pakistan, Afghanistan and its neighbours Iran, China, Russia and India, along
with Britain and the US as observers.

The idea is to reach a consensus among the countries most directly affected by
the extremists based in Pakistan and Afghanistan, in an attempt to claim the
ownership of the anti-terror fight as an indigenous struggle. A Zardari aide
said: "We want to broaden the base for this war, to stop it being seen as . . .
George Bush's crusade. Otherwise, it just won't wash at home."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         PA Newswire: Northern Ireland

                    September 17, 2008 Wednesday 2:48 PM BST

BUSINESSES GET TERROR ATTACK TRAINING

BYLINE: Michael McHugh, PA

SECTION: PA Newswire: Ireland

LENGTH: 333 words


Businesses across Belfast were put on red alert for a terror attack today - but
it was just a simulation.

Retailers learned how to prevent, handle and recover from an incident involving
international insurgents.

The event was run by the PSNI and Belfast's City Centre Management.

Assistant chief constable Alistair Finlay said: ``The project highlights the
importance of being prepared and having the necessary contingency plans in place
to help safeguard staff, customers and company assets.''

Participants attended workshops featuring a tabletop multi-media simulation of
an attack.

Attendees faced questions and dilemmas to resolve individually and collectively.

In 2006 a counter terrorism strategy was published by the British Government,
CONTEST, aimed at reducing the risk of international terrorism.

There is also a target in the 2008-2011 Northern Ireland Policing Plan to
develop the response to the threat.

As part of the CONTEST strategy, events entitled Project ARGUS have been taking
place across the UK, exploring what is likely to happen under a terrorist attack
and how businesses should respond.

Mr Finlay added: ``It is no secret that the threat to the UK from international
terrorism is real and serious and we all have a role to play in helping to
prevent it.

``Communities are the key to this process, and business communities in our
cities and towns can play a vital role in assisting the police to effectively
minimise this threat.''

An expert panel involving one representative from PSNI, Northern Ireland Fire
and Rescue Service, Northern Ireland Ambulance Service and Belfast City Council,
was on hand to guide participants.

Belfast city centre manager Andrew Irvine said: ``By advancing resilience,
businesses are better placed to recover more quickly, whether as a result of
emergencies, disasters or the global economy.

``The ability to demonstrate that an organisation can continue to meet its
contractual obligations despite interruptions is highly attractive to potential
clients.''

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 18, 2008 Thursday

Turkish Foreign Ministry "harshly" condemns terrorist attack in Yemen

LENGTH: 153 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -18.09.2008 -Turkey condemned on Thursday a terrorist attack in
Yemen, the Foreign Ministry said.

Turkey harshly condemned a terrorist attack against the US Embassy in Sanaa,
Yemen, a Foreign Ministry statement said.

In its statement, the ministry said that Turkey saw terrorism a crime against
humanity and strongly condemned the heinous attack.

Terrorists fired automatic weapons and set off grenades and a car bomb near the
US Embassy in the Yemeni capital on Wednesday, and killed 10 Yemeni citizens.

The statement said that terrorist attacks, that claimed the lives of civilians
and innocent people, did not have a chance to be successful.

In the statement, the ministry once more reaffirmed Turkey's determination to
join international cooperation against terrorism.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0946 gmt 18 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                          September 18, 2008 Thursday

United Nations: Security Council Press Statement On Terrorist Attack In Yemen

LENGTH: 322 words


RDATE:17092008

The following Security Council press statement was read out today by Council
President Michel Kafando ( Burkina Faso):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the
terrorist attack that occurred at the entrance to the United States Embassy in
Sana'a, Yemen, on 17 September 2008, which caused death to Yemeni security
personnel, as well as numerous injuries.

They expressed their deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the
victims and to the Government of Yemen.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of this reprehensible act of terrorism to
justice, commended the commitment of the Government of Yemen to this end and
urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Yemeni
authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reiterated that all acts of terrorism are
criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, and reaffirmed the
need to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United
Nations, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must ensure that
measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and
humanitarian law.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to combat all
forms of terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of
the United Nations.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                          September 18, 2008 Thursday
                                 Dublin Edition

'Terror attack' in Belfast;
METRODigest

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 63 words


BUSINESSES across Belfast were put on red alert for a terror attack yesterday
but it was just a simulation. Retailers learned how to prevent, handle and
recover from an incident. Participants attended workshops featuring a tabletop
multi-media simulation of an attack and faced questions and dilemmas to resolve.
The event was run by the PSnI and Belfasts City Centre Management.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 19, 2008 Friday

Yemeni deputy premier says embassy attack revenge for anti-terror operations

LENGTH: 178 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

SANA'A, Sep. 18 (Saba) -Deputy Premier for Defence and Security affairs Rashad
al-Alimi affirmed Thursday that the US embassy terrorist attack is a revenge
reaction to the government anti-terrorism operations against the terrorist
elements.

In an interview with the weekly 26 September, al-Alimi praised alertness of the
security guards, who stop the car bomb that could cause a disaster, pointing out
that most of the terrorists were wearing explosive belts and used a number of
gas cylinders to produce a huge destructive explosion.

On the other hand, al-Alimi said that the conditions at Saada governorate are
going well since military truce, based on the president's orders. He added that
about 183 people involved in the rebellion have been released.

He added that the evaluation and categorization processes are underway to
release more detainees, pointing out that the Huthi's commitment to the Doha
Agreement assists in releasing more.

Source: Saba news agency website, Sanaa, in English 18 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 19, 2008 Friday

Yemeni president condemns terrorist attacks on US embassy in Sanaa

LENGTH: 340 words


Text of report by state-owned Yemeni TV on 18 September

Sanaa Republic of Yemen Television in Arabic at 2330 gmt on 18 September carries
within its newscast a report on Yemeni President Ali Abdallah Salih's visit to
the Governorate of Al-Hudaydah. During the visit, the president delivered a
speech in which he condemned the attacks on the US Embassy in Sanaa.

The president says: "The homeland is targeted by terrorism. You have seen what
happened in Ma'rib, Hadramawt, and yesterday in Sanaa. This is a threat to the
national economy, development, and tourism. It is against all citizens and not
just the political system. It is against development, stability, and our Islamic
faith. Islam rejects those extremists and this fanaticism. This is a country of
centrism, moderation, and faith. Our people reject extremism in all its forms.
We are all against terrorism. The acts of killing people and attacking
foreigners are not against foreigners, they are against the security and
stability of the homeland. They are condemned and rejected. I promise you and I
promise all the citizens that we will pursue them until they are arrested and
stand before justice. I say that the political and the national security are
worth nothing compared to the homeland's security. You are the national security
and you are the political security. Every citizen, man or woman, and every
scholar, poet, politician, military or security officer is responsible. It is
not the responsibility of the police. It is the responsibility of every citizen
without exception. We are one nation. We reject all forms of extremism,
fanaticism, and terrorism. Building the homeland is a responsibility for all of
us without exception. God bless the security officers, and all those who
cooperate with them, who helped foil the serious attempt yesterday to target the
US Embassy. Targeting the US Embassy is targeting the homeland. Our people are
great. They are no longer ignorant like they were 47 years ago."

Source: Republic of Yemen TV, Sanaa, in Arabic 2330 gmt 18 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 19, 2008 Friday

US Department of State: American Citizen Among Fatalities in Terrorist Attack in
Yemen (Taken Question)

LENGTH: 202 words


RDATE:18092008

Taken Question Office of the Spokesman Washington, DC -- Question taken at Daily
Briefing of Sept. 18, 2008.

Question: Can you confirm that an American citizen was among the victims of the
September 17 terrorist attack on the U.S.

Embassy in Sana'a, Yemen? Do you have information about other victims?

Answer: We can confirm that Susan Elbaneh, an American citizen, was killed in
the September 17 terrorist attack on U.S. Embassy Sana'a. Preliminary
information suggests that she was at the Embassy with her husband, Abdul
Aljabri, and her sister-in-law. Her husband also died in the attack, and her
sister-in-law was injured.

U.S. and Yemeni authorities continue to investigate the incident. Preliminary
information suggests that as many as 17 persons died and several more were
injured in the incident.

Other than Mrs. Elbaneh, we have no reports of other American casualties. We do
not have information on the nationality of other victims.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 21, 2008 Sunday

Pakistan minister says blast "attack on nation's resolve against terrorism"

LENGTH: 291 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 20 September: Federal Minister for Information and Broadcasting Ms
Sherry Rehman Saturday [20 September] strongly condemned the suicide attack at
the Marriott Hotel, Islamabad.

"This is an attack on the nation's resolve against terrorism, reiterated by
President Asif Ali Zardari in his first address to the Parliament on Saturday.
She said the timing of the blast is an indication that the terrorists find
Pakistan's democracy as a threat to their existence. "It is the government's
determination and the power of national consensus against the extremists groups
that has pushed them into trying every avenue to challenge our security." said
Ms Sherry Rehman talking to the media after the suicide attack.

The federal Information Minister said that Saturday's blast is a reminder that
there can be no disagreement over the fact that terrorism is the single biggest
threat to the nation. "There is need for the whole nation to demonstrate a
united stand against extremist forces as the government stands determined to
root out elements that continue to endanger our lives and our security", she
said. "It is an attack on our people, and only a united stand against our enemy
can push these forces to the corner", she added.

Ms Rehman extended her condolences to the relatives of the martyred and the
injured. She said that public's willingness to volunteer for blood donation and
help the victims was heartening. "It was a message for the attackers, that such
cowardly strikes cannot terrorise us. We as a nation will always stand by each
other in such difficult times", she said.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1902gmt
20 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 21, 2008 Sunday

Czech envoy to Pakistan missing since terrorist attack

LENGTH: 141 words


Text of report in English by Czech national public-service news agency CTK

Islamabad/Prague, 21September: Czech authorities have failed to establish
contact with Czech ambassador to Pakistan Ivo Zdarek since the Saturday
terrorist attack on Hotel Marriott in the Pakistani capital of Islamabad,
ministry spokeswoman Zuzana Opletalova told CTK today.

She said Zdarek had his temporary residence in the hotel and that he was staying
there at the time of the explosion.

More than 50 people died in the attack that the United States says has signs of
the Al-Qaeda terrorist network and another 250 people were injured.

Opletalova said Zdarek had stayed in Marriott since he took over the post of
Czech ambassador to Pakistan this summer.

He arrived in Pakistan from a diplomatic mission to Vietnam.

Source: CTK news agency, Prague, in English 0543 gmt 21 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 21, 2008 Sunday

Czech envoy to Pakistan dies in terrorist attack - TV report

LENGTH: 69 words


Text of report in English by Czech national public-service news agency CTK

Islamabad/Prague, 21 September: The body of Czech ambassador to Pakistan Ivo
Zdarek has been found in the ruins of Hotel Marriott in the Pakistani capital of
Islamabad that became the target of a bomb attack on Saturday, Pakistani police
announced, according to Czech CT24 channel.

Source: CTK news agency, Prague, in English 0805 gmt 21 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 21, 2008 Sunday

Indian Mujahideen reportedly planning more terror attacks

LENGTH: 275 words


Text of report headlined "IM plans more blasts" by Indian newspaper The Asian
Age website on 21 September

[by Deepal Trivedi]

Ahmedabad [in Gujarat State, western India], [Saturday] 20 September: At least
four of the 21 accused caught in the Ahmedabad serial bomb blasts have
reportedly told investigating crime branch sleuths that more terror strikes are
being planned by the Indian Mujahideen in the coming days.

Sources claimed Abu Bashar, Usman Agarbatti-wala, Sajid Mansuri and Safdar
Nagori were not only aware of the Delhi blasts but skilfully avoided revealing
the details of the plan.

However, during interrogation all four commented that "more strikes" are being
planned.

Tauqeer and Qayamuddin Kapadia, the two absconding SIMI [Students' Islamic
Movement of India] activists, have been named by the four accused as being busy
planning the next terror strikes.

While the IM [Indian Mujahideen]'s "Operation BAD (Bengaluru, Ahmedabad and
Delhi)" is complete, the sources claimed that the BAD project could be the
beginning of a detailed "BADMAN (Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Mumbai, again
Ahmedabad and Nagpur)" or "BADMASH (Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Mumbai,
Ahmedabad, Surat and Hyderabad)" project.

Meanwhile, the police raided a house in Chandola Talao area of Ahmedabad
because, it claimed, terrorists, including Tauqeer and Qayamuddin Kapadia, are
believed to have lived there.

The police seized considerable bomb-making material, ammunition, equipment and
related material. The police said the rented house had groceries, utensils and
basic infrastructure for about 10 people.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 21 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 21, 2008 Sunday

Yemeni deputy PM discusses anti-terrorism efforts, US embassy attack, piracy

LENGTH: 615 words


Text of report by Jordanian newspaper Al-Dustur on 20 September

[Report by Abd-al-Aziz al-Hayajim in Sanaa: "Yemeni deputy prime minister to
Al-Dustur: We Seized 200,000 Unlicensed Weapons Within a Year"]

Dr Rashad al-Alimi, Yemeni deputy prime minister for security and defence
affairs, has said that his country's war on terrorism is open-ended and
continuous. He expected other operations similar to the one carried out against
the US embassy in Sanaa.

Speaking to Al-Dustur, Al-Alimi said: "We expect such terrorist operations,
which are carried out in reaction to and retaliation for the painful blows dealt
to the terrorist elements at the hands of the security forces, the latest of
which were in Hadramaut and Abyan governorates."

The Yemeni deputy prime minister for security and defence affairs added: "The
security services not only in Yemen but also in almost all other countries are
facing challenges. These challenges are posed by suicide operations similar to
the terrorist operation carried out against the US embassy building." He
indicated that a disaster could have happened had it not been for the vigilance
of the security men guarding the building and their selfless courage. They
managed to kill the terrorists and blow up their two booby-trapped cars before
they could achieve any of their aims. He added that the Yemeni security services
will not hesitate to pursue the terrorists, tighten the noose around them,
apprehend them, and send them to justice.

He said: "The Interior Ministry's campaign to seize unlicensed weapons and
prevent armed manifestations, especially in major cities, led to positive
results and more than 200,000 pieces of weaponry have been seized so far.
Besides, several markets selling weapons have been closed. He stressed that the
campaign is continuing and this led to a reduction in the number of incidents
that take place as a result of carrying arms. Some of these incidents, he said,
are linked to acts of revenge, confiscation of land, and armed robbery."

Al-Alimi called on the Yemeni parliamentarians to expedite the ratification of
the amended law organizing the possession of weapons and explosives. He
indicated that this law will boost security efforts to control this uncivilized
phenomenon and punish those who break the law. He said there is no reason at all
to hesitate in ratifying this important law, which will serve the national
interests and promote the development and investment efforts in the country.

With regard to the measures Yemen adopted to confront piracy in international
waters near the Gulf of Aden - piracy which has recently increased - the Yemeni
deputy prime minister for security and defence affairs said: "Piracy in
international waters off the Gulf of Aden by some Somali outlaws cause us and
others concern because it poses a threat to the security and safety of
international navigation. Besides, acts of piracy do not distinguish between one
country and another; they harm the interests of all. Therefore, confronting
these acts is the responsibility of not only Yemen, but also the world."

He added: "Therefore, Yemen does all it can to confront these acts. Currently
arrangements are being made and coordination is under way with a number of
friendly countries to establish a regional centre in Aden and centres in
Al-Mukalla and Al-Hudaydah to confront sea piracy, in addition to establishing a
control and information centre in Sanaa."

Al-Alimi added that preparations are being made to hold an international
conference in Yemen next month to discuss the way to coordinate international
efforts to combat piracy in this region, which is vital for world trade.

Source: Al-Dustur, Amman, in Arabic 20 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 21, 2008 Sunday

Czech envoy to Pakistan dies in terrorist attack - fuller version

LENGTH: 328 words


Text of report in English by Czech national public-service news agency CTK

Islamabad/Prague, 21 September: Czech ambassador to Pakistan Ivo Zdarek died in
the ruins of Hotel Marriott in the Pakistani capital of Islamabad that became
the target of a terrorist attack on Saturday, Czech Foreign Ministry spokeswoman
Zuzana Opletalova told CTK today.

According to news agencies also Pakistani Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani
informed the media about Zdarek's death. He said according to Reuters agency
that he had been identified.

Opletalova said Gilani also informed the family about Zdarek's death.

Minimally 53 persons died in the attack and hundreds of others were injured.

Opletalova informed CTK already during the night that Czech authorities have
failed to establish contact with Zdarek.

She said Zdarek had his temporary residence in the hotel and that he was staying
there at the time of the explosion.

The Czech embassy in Islamabad told CTK this morning that Zdarek stayed in the
hotel alone, without his family.

Opletalova said Zdarek had stayed in Marriott since he took over the post of
Czech ambassador to Pakistan this summer.

He arrived in Pakistan from a diplomatic mission to Vietnam.

Czech Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg sharply denounced the terrorist
attack in Islamabad and expressed sympathy to the victims' families.

He said the attack was an attempt at destabilisation of the situation in
Pakistan after the recent presidential election.

Schwarzenberg welcomed the Pakistani government's statement that this latest
development will not weaken its resolve in fighting terrorists.

The attack for which no one has claimed responsibility has according to the
United States signs of the Al-Qaeda terrorist network or its allies.

The five-star hotel in which foreigners, journalists, Pakistani politicians and
businessmen often stayed, is situated a mere half a kilometre from government
buildings.

Source: CTK news agency, Prague, in English 0907 gmt 21 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 21, 2008, Sunday

BRITS HURT IN MASSIVE PAKISTAN BOMB BLAST;
 60 KILLED IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: BY DEAN ROUSEWELL

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 212 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEVASTATION: Giant terror bomb crater in front of Marriott Hotel in
Islamabad; WOUNDED: Guest


UP to 60 people died and around 250 were injured - including four Britons, two
of them children - in a hotel bomb attack yesterday.

A lorry filled with 1,000lb of explosives blew up at the Marriott in the
Pakistan capital Islamabad, killing at least two foreigners, one an American.

The massive blast wrecked the hotel, a favourite with foreigners, setting it
ablaze and leaving a 30ft deep crater.

Marriott worker Mohammad Sultan, who was in the lobby, said: "It was like the
world is finished." Blood-stained guests lay dazed amid the carnage.

The Foreign Office confirmed the two British children had minor injuries and
have left hospital. The two adult Brits were kept in hospital overnight for
observation. More than 200 guests were eating in the hotel's restaurants at the
time of the attack.

Pakistan's new president, Asif Ali Zardari, denounced terrorists as cowards
after the blast and vowed to rid his country of the "cancer of terrorism".

Foreign Secretary David Miliband said last night: "This is yet another shocking
and disgraceful attack without justification. We stand shoulder to shoulder with
government of Pakistan against the violent extremists who have no answers but
only offer death and mayhem."

peoplenews@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 21, 2008, Sunday

BRITS HURT IN MASSIVE PAKISTAN BOMB BLAST;
 60 KILLED IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: BY DEAN ROUSEWELL

SECTION: Yorks Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 204 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEVASTATION: Giant terror bomb crater in front of Marriott Hotel in
Islamabad; WOUNDED: Guest


UP to 60 people died and dozens were injured - including four Britons, two of
them children - in a hotel bomb attack yesterday.

A lorry filled with explosives blew up at the Marriott in the Pakistan capital
Islamabad.

The massive blast wrecked the hotel, a favourite with foreigners, setting it
ablaze and leaving a 30ft deep crater.

Marriott worker Mohammad Sultan, who was in the lobby, said: "It was like the
world is finished." Blood-stained guests lay dazed amid the carnage.

The Foreign Office confirmed the two British children had minor injuries and
have left hospital. The two adult Brits were kept in hospital overnight for
observation. More than 200 guests were eating in the hotel's restaurants at the
time of the attack.

It came just hours after Pakistan's new president, Asif Ali Zardari, condemned
terrorists in his debut speech to parliament.

Foreign Secretary David Miliband said last night: "This is yet another shocking
and disgraceful attack without justification.

"We stand shoulder to shoulder with government of Pakistan against the violent
extremists who have no answers but only offer death and mayhem." The hotel had
been bombed twice before.

peoplenews@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 21, 2008, Sunday

'THE PICTURE CHANGED TO A TERRORIST ATTACK';
PS PUBLIC SECTOR'S LOCAL HEROES

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 297 words


FEW realise the crucial part played by the St John Ambulance Service in the
aftermath of the London bombings and the floods of last year. Scot Martin
Henderson won a letter of commendation for his role in the hours and days
following the 7/7 terror attacks.

MARTIN co-ordinated rescue efforts with the London Ambulance Service while
working out a way to get 160 staff and volunteers home safely.

He said: "It was like any other morning when news came through that there had
been an electrical surge on the underground.

The picture quickly changed to one of a terrorist attack.

"I was senior ranking employee on the day. We directed five vehicles to Edgware
Road to assist with the rescue attempt while trying to find out where people who
should have been in the office that day were.

"It was surreal. I spent the next two days co-ordinating our resources across
London and running doctors around. Our staff are trained to deal with major
incidents so everyone knew what to do."

Martin, 35, brought up in Bearsden, Glasgow, was a postman and worked his way
into middle management with the Royal Mail. He joined Securicor in 2001 where he
became an expert in transport logistics.

He joined the St John Ambulance Service in 2005 to co-ordinate the charity's
hospital transport services and was promoted to deputy chief executive (Prince
of Wales District) the following year.

The unit has 140 vehicles from ambulances to specialist patient transport
vehicles and even a boat.

Martin said: "Our people handle anything from serious wounds to life-threatening
cardiac arrests.

"At the Notting Hill Carnival we had 200volunteers on standby."

The charity raises most of its fundsproviding first aid courses.

Martin and his team are now planning their role in the 2012 Olympic Games.

Visit www.sja.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 22, 2008 Monday

West Indian state on alert after inputs of possible terror attack

LENGTH: 270 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Bangalore/Thrissur/Panaji, 21 September: After Bangalore, Ahmedabad and Delhi,
terrorists were suspected to be planning a strike in Goa [west Indian state],
sparking an alert in the coastal state where security was enhanced Sunday [21
September] in and around key installations and railway station.

Karnataka Home Minister V. S. Acharya said in Bangalore [capital of Karnataka,
south Indian state] that his government has been tipped-off by Kerala [south
Indian state] Police that a consignment of explosives had been placed aboard a
train that left Thiruvananthapuram [Kerala's capital] Sunday for being used for
a terror strike in Goa.

"We have received information that the train carries explosives for a strike in
Goa," he told reporters.

A Thiruvanathapuram report said the Netravati Express bound for Kurla, a Mumbai
suburb, was thoroughly searched at Thrissur Sunday but nothing was found.

Acharya said Karnataka police were "all prepared" to conduct a search of the
train when it reaches the state's border.

Taking no chances, Goa police stepped up security around all the vital
establishments and also increased surveillance along the railway station.

The Goa police said they have received inputs from Kerala police about the train
laden with explosives.

"We are on our toes and have kept all the arrangements ready," Superintendent of
Police Atmaram Deshpande, who heads state's special cell, told PTI here.

"We are checking almost all the trains. The bomb disposal squad is also pressed
in service," Deshpande said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1842gmt 21 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 22, 2008 Monday

Cyprus condemns terrorist attack in Pakistan

LENGTH: 220 words


Text of report in English by Greek Cypriot news agency CNA

Nicosia, Sep 22 (CNA) - The Republic of Cyprus has condemned the terrorist
attack which took place 20th of September in Pakistan.

According to a press release issued by the Foreign Ministry, the terrorist act
"repulses the international community and aims to undermine the fundamental,
universal principles of respect for human life and coexistence".

"The Ministry of Foreign Affairs unreservedly condemns the terrorist attack
which took place on 20 September at the Marriot Hotel, in Islamabad", the press
release adds.

It notes that the government and the people of Cyprus "express their deepest and
most sincere condolences to the President, the government and the people of
Pakistan for the loss of so many innocent lives, as a result of the 20 September
bomb attack".

In its press release, the Foreign Ministry expresses Cyprus' solidarity with
Pakistan's efforts to combat terrorism.

"In these difficult moments for Pakistan, Cyprus expresses its solidarity and
sympathy to the leadership of Pakistan in its struggle to eradicate the menace
of terrorism and reiterates the need for a more active involvement of the
international community in the fight against terrorism", the press release
concludes.

Source: Cyprus News Agency, Nicosia, in English 1055 gmt 22 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           September 22, 2008 Monday
                                 First Edition

Al-Qa'ida allies blamed for deadly terror attack on US hotel in Pakistani
capital

BYLINE: Omar Waraich in Islamabad and Andrew Buncombe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 621 words


DRAMATIC CCTV footage released last night by Pakistani authorities shows the
moments before a truck containing more than 1,000lb of explosives tried to ram
the gates of an Islamabad hotel before blowing up, killing at least 53 people.

The grainy images show a small explosion inside the cab of a dumper truck after
security guards refused to allow the driver entry to the grounds of the Marriott
hotel. Panicking guards can be seen trying to put out the resultant fire before
sniffer dogs alert them that something is wrong. The guards can then be seen
fleeing the area but the subsequent blast is not captured as it destroyed the
cameras.

"The truck was stopped at the barrier and there was an altercation between the
attacker and the guards," said Rehman Malik, Pakistan's Interior Minister.

As Pakistan sought to recover from one of its most shocking terror attacks to
date and as the death toll from Saturday evening's blast continued to rise, Mr
Malik said investigators believed the bomb had contained an estimated 600kg
(1,322lb) of high-grade, military-style explosives. "This is the biggest
explosion in Pakistan's history," he added. "The diameter of the crater [left by
the bomb] is 69ft."

The Czech ambassador, Ivo Zdarek, was among the 53 people known to have been
killed. More than 260 others were injured and rescue crews werestill combing
through the smouldering debris last night.

Among the injured were six Britons, including a child and three diplomats. The
Foreign Office said two Britons remained in hospital. While three other
foreigners were among the dead, many if not most of those killed are believed to
have been members of the hotel's staff.

It was revealed yesterday that the authorities learnt that militants may have
been planning an attack in Islamabad three days earlier. However, efforts to
protect against such an event appear to have been concentrated on the parliament
building from where Pakistan's newly elected President, Asif Ali Zardari,
delivered a speech on Saturday evening, barely a mile from the hotel. There was
disagreement among officials whether the bomber had targeted the hotel after
failing to get close enough to the parliament building.

While there has been no claim of responsibility so far for Saturday's attack,
the authorities believe it was almost certainly the work of Islamic extremists
based in the country's tribal areas. Militants from the Pakistani Taliban and
al-Qa'ida have been behind an upsurge in violence in recent months of which
Saturday's bombing was just the latest incident. Pakistani civilians have made
up the overwhelming majority of the victims.

Mr Malik said a team of investigators has been examining the hotel and the deep
crater in the road outside. The action of the guards will likely be a key part
of the inquiry, given that the owner of the Marriott accused them of a serious
lapse by allowing the truck to approach unchallenged. "If I were there and had
seen the suicide bomber, I would have killed him. Unfortunately, they didn't,"
said Sadruddin Hashwani.

The blast - which used aluminium powder that created temperatures of more than
400C - is just the latest challenge for Pakistan's new civilian leadership. The
government and Mr Zardari have been involved in a war of words with the United
States over military operations carried out by American troops inside Pakistan
as they step up the hunt for Osama bin Laden before George Bush leaves office.

Mr Zardari condemned the bombing as a "cancer" before flying to New York for a
meeting with Mr Bush and talks at the UN where the issue of Pakistan's efforts
to confront extremists along its border with Afghanistan is certain to be
discussed.

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 28

YASMIN ALIBHAI-BROWN, PAGE 33

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 22, 2008 Monday

US Department of State: Terrorist Attack in Islamabad, Pakistan

LENGTH: 221 words


RDATE:20092008

Press Statement Sean McCormack Washington, DC -- We condemn the heinous attack
on the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad that has left more than 40 dead and many more
injured. We extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to the Pakistani people,
and we are ready to assist in any way possible during this difficult time.

This barbaric attack comes during the month of Ramadan, only underscoring that
those responsible have no respect for the principles of their faith. This strike
to the heart of the Pakistani capital leaves no doubt as to the intentions of
these extremist elements. Their goal is to create mayhem and weaken the
institutions of government so that they may operate unfettered while spreading
their intolerance. The United States will continue to stand with the Pakistani
people and their democratically-elected government as it confronts this scourge.

Among those killed was at least one American citizen; several others have been
injured. We are in the process of notifying next of kin and offering our
condolences and assistance at this time.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 22, 2008 Monday

Norwegian Government: Foreign Minister condemns terrorist attack in Islamabad

LENGTH: 286 words


RDATE:21092008

"The Government condemns today's terrorist attack outside the Marriott Hotel,"
said Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Store. "We have expressed to the Pakistani
authorities our sympathy at the loss of so many lives and requested that this be
conveyed to the relatives."

"There is no justification for killing innocent civilians, and I can only
express my outrage at such a despicable act," said Mr Store.

"This is a difficult situation for Pakistan. Now it is important to support the
recent democratic progress in the country," said the Foreign Minister.

The Norwegian ambassador's residence is located in the same part of Islamabad as
the Marriott Hotel. The explosion caused material damage to the residence, but
there are no reports of any embassy personnel being injured.

Nor does the Foreign Ministry have any reports this evening of other Norwegian
nationals being injured as a result of today's attack.

The Norwegian embassy in Islamabad is working this evening to contact Norwegian
nationals registered as being in Pakistan.

Norwegian nationals who are in or planning to travel to Pakistan are encouraged
to contact the embassy in Islamabad for updated information and to register. For
more information see www.norway.org.pk.

Ministry of Foreign Affairs Address: 7. juni-plassen/ Victoria Terrasse. PB 8114
Dep. N-0032 Oslo

CONTACT: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Norwegian Government Tel: +47 22 24 36 00
Fax: +47 22 24 95 80 Fax: +47 22 24 95 81

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday

US must help strengthen Pakistan's preparedness for terror attacks - daily

LENGTH: 524 words


Text of editorial headlined "Securing Pakistan" by Pakistani newspaper Dawn
website on 23 September


In the aftermath of the devastating bombing in Islamabad, serious questions are
being raised about the level of preparedness of the emergency and security
services. Depressingly, they are the same ones that are raised after each
terrorist strike -- and go unanswered each time. In the case of the Marriott
bombing, two sets of questions arise: those concerning the events before the
explosives-laden truck struck the security barrier of the hotel and those
concerning the hours after the truck burst into flames.

Consider the second set of questions first. It took more than 10 hours for
Islamabad's fire department to extinguish the blaze at the Marriott. We know
that people died in the period between the initial explosion and the time by
which the site was brought under control -- the Czech envoy who died inside the
hotel made a call to his embassy and asked to be rescued. Clearly, potentially
life-saving time was lost by a fire department that does not have enough of the
right! equipment and does not know how to best use the equipment it does have. A
report in this paper has claimed that 30 high-level posts in Islamabad's fire
department are vacant. Given the threats that Islamabad faces, negligence of
this kind rises to a criminal level. The speed of the response of the gas and
electricity utilities was also said to be sluggish though a spokesman for the
gas company disputed this assertion.

The second set of questions concerns the performance of Pakistan's security
apparatus. Failures are apparent at every stage leading up to Saturday's attack.
How did such large quantities of lethal explosives make it into the hands of
terrorists? How were the terrorists able to commandeer the truck and drive it
into Islamabad? And what was that truck doing unchecked in the heart of
Islamabad on an evening that every major leader of Pakistan -- civilian and
uniformed -- had gathered there? In the aftermath of terrorist attacks, we learn
of intelligence teams with obscure names -- Special Investigation Authority,
Special Investigation Group, Joint Investigation Teams. However, the public
knows little of their record of failure or success. No doubt fully securing
cities from suicide bombers is an all but impossible task. But equally obvious
are the gaping holes in our security apparatus. We need help and we need it now.
Misplaced nationalism argues that foreign help -- especially from the Americans
-- is unwelcome and an intrusion in our 'domestic' affairs. Yet anything that
helps saves Pakistani lives must be welcomed. From our emergency services to our
intelligence apparatus, the international community can do much to raise our
level of preparedness in the face of an unprecedented terrorist threat. The US
must lead the way in providing such support. It has spent an extraordinary
amount -- several hundred billion dollars -- in Iraq; investing a mere fraction
of that sum in Pakistan's anti-terrorism infrastructure would go a long way to
defeating a common enemy.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 23 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          September 23, 2008, Tuesday

HAND OVER THE CASH OR WE'LL TORCH YOU;
SHOP GIRL'S PETROL ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: By Joanne Curran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 120 words


A TERRIFIED shop worker was doused in petrol and threatened with a lighter by
callous armed robbers.

Supervisor Louise Smith, 22, was attacked by two masked men as she opened up on
Sunday .

Wielding baseball bats, the raiders pushed their way into the Spar in West
Kilbride, Ayrshire, at around 7.45am and poured fuel on frightened Louise.

She and a 67-year-old woman worker handed over more than pounds 1000 to the
thugs after they threatened to set her on fire.

Visibly shaking yesterday, shocked Louise said: "I'm OK but I can't talk about
this yet."

Strathclyde Police are studying CCTV footage from the shop and have appealed for
witnesses to come forward.

A spokesman for Spar said the workers would get time off to recover.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAID: The shop in West Kilbride

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                  IRE Edition

Aftershave clue may halt sex attacker's reign of terror

BYLINE: Alan Sherry

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 502 words


GARDAÍ have called in a psychological profiler and a behavioural analyst to help
in the hunt for a serial sex attacker believed to be responsible for up to five
violent assaults on women over the past 13 months.

And officers have revealed the man wears a distinctive aftershave - possibly
Joop! - a clue they hope will nail him before he strikes again.

The latest incident happened early on Saturday morning in Athlone as a
28-year-old woman was walking home from a shop.

She was grabbed from behind and her attacker pushed her over a wall in an
attempted sexual assault but the woman managed to get away.

The vicious attacker had his face bruised in the incident.

That attack came just days after a teenage Athlone Institute of Technology
student was attacked as she walked home alone in the Bonavalley Bridge area.

Three similar attacks happened in the same area - which is close to the college
- between August and October last year.

Superintendent Aidan Glacken, who is in charge of the investigation, is to
appear on RTÉ's Crime-call tonight to make a public appeal for information. He
said up to 1,000 lines of inquiry are considered 'active' and hundreds of
statements have been taken.

Mr Glacken said there is a distinctive smell of aftershave from the attacker and
that 'it is quite over-powering, something akin to Joop!'. He said that while it
is too early to confirm definitively the same man is behind the attacks, 'there
are similarities'.

He said: 'These are serious assaults of a physical nature. The modus operandi is
quite similar - a female alone, being attacked from behind.

'It obviously has put the community in some form of fear and made the lives of
females in particular, quite vulnerable here.'

On October 3, last year, a 39-year-old woman was seriously assaulted by a man
while walking home near Bonavalley Bridge late at night, and before that on
September 23, another woman had been grabbed from behind and dragged to a
secluded area.

Before that again, a woman had been set upon on August 12, in an incident that
was featured on RTÉ's Crimecall programme. She and her friend had left a
nightclub just after 3am and were making their way to Bonavalley Bridge where
they decided to wait for a taxi. Her friend walked on a bit further to see if
she could get a cab close to the town. However, a man grabbed the victim from
behind and dragged her to a nearby disused car park. He violently assaulted her,
leaving her with severe cuts and bruises to her face. She managed to escape.

All of the attacks have taken place near railway bridges and gar-daí are
investigating CCTV footage to see if the attacker is using railway lines to flee
the scenes.

Students at AIT have been warned to be particularly vigilant.

Crimestoppers is offering a e10,000 reward for information leading to the arrest
of the man.

He is believed to be in his late 20s, 5ft 8in to 5ft 10in, with dark hair and
large eyes. He was wearing dark corduroy trousers and a dark jumper with a white
collar last week.

alan.sherry@dailymail.ie

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 1.Suspect: Photofit of the attacker 2.Gathering evidence: Gardaí
searching the undergrowth in Athlone where the woman was attacked

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday

United Nations: Security Council Condemns In Strongest Terms Terrorist Attack In
Pakistan

LENGTH: 471 words


RDATE:22092008

Security Council

5978^th Meeting (PM)

The Security Council today condemned in the strongest terms Saturday's terrorist
attack in Islamabad, Pakistan, which killed and wounded foreign diplomats as
well as local residents.

In a formal statement read out by Michel Kafando of Burkina Faso, which holds
the Council Presidency this month, the 15-member body also expressed sympathy
for the victims and their families and underlined the need to bring to justice
the perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of what it called "this
reprehensible act of terrorism".

It reaffirmed that all acts of terrorism were criminal and unjustifiable,
regardless of their motivation, and that terrorism must be fought by all means
consistent with the Charter of the United Nations and international law.

The meeting began at 1:06 p.m. and ended at 1:11 p.m.

Presidential Statement

The full text of presidential statement S/PRST/2008/35 reads as follows:

"The Security Council condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist attack that
occurred in Islamabad on 20 September 2008, causing numerous deaths and
injuries, including among foreign diplomats. It expresses its deep sympathy and
condolences to the victims of this heinous act of terrorism and to their
families, and to the people and Government of Pakistan.

"The Security Council underlines the need to bring perpetrators, organizers,
financiers and sponsors of this reprehensible act of terrorism to justice, and
urges all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and resolution 1373 (2001) and consistent with resolution 1624 (2005), to
cooperate actively with the Pakistani authorities in this regard.

"The Security Council reaffirms that terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by
whomsoever committed.

"The Security Council further reaffirms the need to combat by all means, in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, threats to international
peace and security caused by terrorist acts. The Council reminds States thatthey
must ensure any measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their
obligations under international law, in particular international human rights,
refugee and humanitarian law.

"The Security Council reiterates its determination to combat all forms of
terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of the
United Nations."

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday

United Nations: Secretary-General Strongly Condemns Heinous Terrorist Attack In
Pakistan

LENGTH: 130 words


RDATE:22092008

The following statement was issued on 20 September by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon:

The Secretary-General strongly condemns today's heinous terrorist attack on the
Marriott Hotel in Islamabad, Pakistan, which has reportedly killed and injured a
large number of people. He expresses his heartfelt condolences to the families
of the victims of this appalling attack, as well as to the Government and people
of Pakistan. No cause can justify the indiscriminate targeting of civilians.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

TERROR ATTACK? IT WAS JUST PERFORMANCE ART;
KILLER DENIES STORMONT BOMB

BYLINE: BY GARY ANDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 241 words


TERRORIST Michael Stone yesterday said his alleged attempt to kill Sinn Fein's
leadership was just "art".

The ex-Loyalist paramilitary, 53, told a court his 2006 attempt to force his way
into Stormont was a "performance protest".

Stone, of no fixed address, denies trying to murder Gerry Adams and Martin
McGuinness.

He also denies having nail pipe bombs, three knives, an axe and garotte and an
imitation firearm with intent to endanger life.

Instead, he claimed the arsenal of items were merely "props" with symbolic
significance, the nail bombs for "nailing the truth".

A sponge in the butt of the fake gun was for "sponging unionists", he told
Belfast crown court. He claimed he "fully supported" the peace process but was
worried about a power vacuum.

He said the stunt aimed to "put a proverbial rocket up the backsides of
politicians" at Northern Ireland's Parliament building.

He added that given his connections he could have made the pipe bombs out of
metal and got hold of a real gun instead of an imitation, if he had wanted to
kill. Stone was jailed for life for a 1988 gun and grenade attack on an IRA
funeral ceremony.

But he was granted early release in 2000 under the Good Friday Agreement.
Defence QC Orlando Pownall reminded Stone that he was freed on a life licence
and asked him: "What do you consider your prospects are for release?"

Stone admitted: "Given the seriousness of these charges, it doesn't look rosy."

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FOILED Stone is tackled by Stormont guard

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                 1 Star Edition

TERROR ATTACK? IT WAS JUST PERFORMANCE ART

BYLINE: BY GARY ANDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 298 words


TERRORIST Michael Stone yesterday said his alleged attempt to kill Sinn Fein's
leadership was just "art".

The ex-Loyalist paramilitary, 53, claimed his 2006 attempt to force his way into
Stormont armed with pipe bombs was a "performance protest".

He told a court: "I'm destroying the iconography of Michael Stone Loyalist hero.

"It's a comic parody of my former self. I would rather be remembered as an
eccentric artist that got it wrong in performance art than my past when I did
some terrible things."

Stone, of no fixed address, denies trying to murder Gerry Adams and Martin
McGuinness at Northern Ireland's Parliament building. He also denies having nail
pipe bombs, three knives, an axe, garotte and imitation gun with intent to
endanger life.

Instead, he claimed the arsenal of items were merely "props" with symbolic
significance, the nail bombs for "nailing the truth".

A sponge in the butt of the fake gun was for "sponging Unionists", he told
Belfast crown court.

He said he only came up with the "performance art work" about six weeks
beforehand.

And while he "fully supported" the peace process, he was worried about a power
vacuum.

He claimed the stunt aimed to "put a proverbial rocket up the backsides of
politicians". He added that given his connections he could easily have made the
pipe bombs out of metal and got a real gun instead of an imitation, if he had
wanted to kill.

Stone was jailed for life for a 1988 gun and grenade attack on an IRA funeral
ceremony. But he was granted early release in 2000 under the Good Friday
Agreement. Defence QC Orlando Pownall reminded Stone he was freed on a life
licence and asked him: "What do you consider your prospects are for release?"

Stone admitted: "Given the seriousness of these charges, it doesn't look rosy."

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FOILED Stone is tackled by Stormont guard

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 23, 2008 Tuesday
                                 1 Star Edition

CAR ATTACK ON ISRAELI TROOPS;
TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 50 words


A CAR slammed into Israeli soldiers in Jerusalem last night in what police
called a terrorist attack.

The Palestinian driver was shot dead after 19 victims were injured, two were in
a serious condition.

An Arab killed three with a bulldozer in July and three weeks later another
digger driver wounded 1 6.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Brentwood Gazette

                               September 24, 2008

Gidea park: Boy blinded by vigilante;
A Vigilante who used a hammer to attack and blind a teenager he said was
terrorising the community has been jailed.

BYLINE: Tom Gardner

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 244 words


Father-of-one Lewis Bowman snapped after being confronted on his doorstep by the
17-year-old.

Bowman, 26, claimed the tearaway, who cannot be named, had harassed vulnerable
residents on his Gidea Park housing estate and even stolen £160 from a neighbour
who suffers learning disabilities and mental health problems.

But Judge Jacqueline Beech had little sympathy and jailed Bowman for two years
and eight months.

She told Snaresbrook Crown Court: "Nothing that happened at the door of your
home could have justified your actions. You just lost control. He asked about
the rumour that you were going to knock him out, at which point you did. You
knocked him on the eye socket with a hammer."

Defending,  Adekunle Tijani said Bowman and his family have now moved home
following persistent harassment from youths.

"It's not disputed by the Crown that the victim of this case is not really a
perfect person. The defence are not in any way saying that act of Mr Bowman was
justifiable, even though this matter might have been caused by the victim
himself in the past."

The court earlier heard how the boy was clutching some cannabis when he came to
Bowman's front door in Mountbatten House, Elvet Avenue.

Prosecutor Lee Ingham said: "The defendant held out the hammer and struck him
with a blow to the eye area. This caused serious injury; he has in fact lost his
eye."

Alison McGuire, Bowman's fiancee and mother of his two-year-old daughter, sobbed
as he was led from the dock.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 107


                        Copyright 2008 Brentwood Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          September 24, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Family deny car terror attack;
World in brief

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 41 words


JERUSALEM The family of a Palestinian man shot dead after his car hit
pedestrians has denied Israeli police claims he had carried out a terror attack,
saying he lost control of the vehicle. More than a dozen soldiers were injured
in the incident.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                          September 24, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

'I feel scared in my home after scarecrow attack';
Mum tells of terror at seeing flames at door

BYLINE: Wendy Horton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 393 words


A MOTHER and her three children fled their home after drunken teenagers set fire
to a scarecrow and propped it up against their front door.

The youngsters were seen setting the straw scarecrow alight and leaning it
against the door before knocking and running away.

Mum Tracy Davies was forced to flee the house in Groesfan Terrace, Deri, near
Bargoed, with her three children, aged 15, 14 and six, for fear the house would
go up in flames. A gas meter was just inches away from where the youngsters put
the scarecrow.

Mrs. Davies, whose husband David was working a shift that night, had just gone
to bed when the drama unfolded.

"I heard noises outside and saw three older teenagers outside," she said.

"They had a scarecrow, and had been playing football with its head. Then they
went out of sight and I could see flames.

"I thought 'Oh my God they've lit it'.

"I was just about to come down and open the front door when I saw flames going
up the sky light. It just went up.

"I panicked because I thought flames would spread to a wooden canopy and there's
a gas box around the corner.

"My first thought was for the children. My youngest was asleep and had to be
carried out by my older daughter as I was carrying keys and mobile phone."

The blaze went out before firefighters arrived but the family's front door was
left badly damaged. It has also left 37-year-old Tracy, who works as a clerical
assistant for the local council, and her children, feeling shaken up.

"Sometimes I don't lock my door, what if they had opened it and they'd thrown it
in?" she said.

"I'm sure it was a prank because other people have said they saw the youngsters
acting drunk.

"It's made me nervous. I've always felt safe in this house because it's so quiet
here, now I feel vulnerable."

She added: "I don't think I was targeted on purpose. I don't think it was
anything deathly, just a prank but it could have been fatal."

Crime and disorder reduction officer Claire Young, based at Rhymney Police
Station, said: "If the occupier had not been so quick to act or indeed been out
at the time of the incident the consequences of this anti-social behaviour could
have been far worse.

"This type of behaviour is not acceptable."

Anyone with information is asked to ring Claire Young on 029 2085 7470 or Gwent
Police on 01633 838111.

wendy.horton@mediawales.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PANIC STATIONS: PC Claire Young outside Tracy Davies' home in Deri,
near Bargoed, where teenagers set fire to a scarecrow and put it against the
front door. There is a gas supply near by PICTURE: Liz Pearce Y

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday

Yemen continues investigation into terrorist attack on US embassy

LENGTH: 211 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

25 September: A security source said on Thursday [25 September] investigators
have reached important information on the last attack on the US embassy in
Sanaa, the mouthpiece of Defence Ministry September 26 reported.

The source noted that a specialized team is currently testing the DNA of corpses
of the attackers to compare the results of these examinations with available
information on antecedent criminals and detainees over terrorist charges.

The move aims to identify the identities of who carried out the attack on the US
embassy on 17 September.

The source affirmed much information have been collected over the incident
either via the embassy's surveillance systems or those collected by eyewitnesses
and security authorities.

Investigations also revealed that the number plates of the two cars, the
perpetrators used to carry out the attack, were false.

On September 17, a double car bomb attack rocked the US embassy in Sanaa killing
16 people including six of troops guarding the embassy and four civilians and
six attackers.

The civilians included two Yemenis, an Indian women and a US citizen from a
Yemeni origin.

Source: Saba news agency website, Sanaa, in English 1545 gmt 25 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday

National: De Menezes feared being in wrong place at wrong time on day of death,
inquest told: Cousin says family was scared after terror attacks Brazilian had
praised police for their restraint

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 729 words


Jean Charles de Menezes told his family they should pray not to be in the "wrong
place at the wrong time" hours before he was shot dead by police who mistook him
for a suicide bomber.

The inquest into the death of the 27-year-old Brazilian, who was killed in July
2005, heard that De Menezes and his cousins had been scared by that summer's
terrorist attacks on London.

His cousins told yesterday how the man mistakenly shot dead by armed officers
had praised the British police for their restraint and for not carrying weapons.

Hours before he was killed, De Menezes had tried to calm one cousin's fears
about terrorism, saying: "We need to pray and hope not to be at the wrong place
at the wrong time."

The innocent electrician was held down and shot seven times in the head at point
blank range by officers on an underground train on July 22 2005.

They mistook him for a terrorist suspect who had tried to attack London the
previous day, July 21, leaving the capital on edge following the July 7 bombing,
which killed 52 people and injured 900.

The jury yesterday heard from De Menezes's cousin who lived with him in south
London, Vivian Figueiredo. In a statement she told of the last time she spoke to
her cousin, on the afternoon of four attempted bomb attacks on three tube trains
and a bus. Figueiredo said: "Jean telephoned me at about 1.30 . . . he phoned to
check that I was OK. We were all feeling a little bit shaky after the 7th July
bombings.

"After the second lot of attempted bombings on 21st July I felt quite scared. It
was feeling as though London was beginning to become a dangerous place to live
and I was wondering whether we should leave. Jean said we need to pray and hope
not to be at the wrong place at the wrong time. That was in fact the last
conversation I had with Jean."

Figueiredo also said that De Menezes had been stopped and questioned by police
at Brixton tube station about a month before his death.

She said De Menezes had been carrying tools in a rucksack when he was "licked"
by a sniffer dog. Police asked him some questions, then let him go.

Another cousin, Patricia da Silva Armani, told how De Menezes had praised the
police: "I am sure Jean Charles had nothing to fear from the police on 22nd July
and there was no reason at all why he would have behaved in a way that would
have aroused suspicion.

"He had been stopped by the police a few times in England.

"In fact he used to praise the British police. He mentioned they were always
polite and did a good job, particularly in comparison with the Brazilian police.

"He also remarked on how good it was that they didn't carry any weapons on them.
I remember him also commenting about seeing other people being stopped by the
police and getting angry.

"He was surprised that the police didn't react, because in Brazil people would
have been locked up straight away."

Armani told how the family became worried when De Menezes failed to return home
and calls to his mobile phone went unanswered.

When family members were asked to come to a police station, she said, she
thought her cousin had done something bad.

Armani told the jury: "When police started speaking I could not understand a lot
of what was being said.

"Then I made the connection with the news. My head started spinning and my
stomach was turning.

"Later we had to go and see his body in the mortuary. The news had not really
sunk in.

"When I saw his body I fainted. The following days were horrific. We were
staying in a hotel in Kingston arranged by police.

"I had three completely sleepless nights with a large number of news people
around and the shooting constantly on the news."

The inquest saw footage of De Menezes's final journey, taken from CCTV from a
bus he travelled on as he tried to get to work. Unbeknown to him, he was being
followed by undercover police officers.

The inquest also heard yesterday from John McDowell, who was leading the hunt
for the July 21 attackers.

McDowell, now a deputy assistant commissioner at Scotland Yard, said on the
evening of July 21 senior counter-terrorism investigators believed the attack
was linked to the July 7 bombings, with similarities between the devices used.

McDowell, who the jury heard has a serious illness, gave evidence from a
wheelchair and by videolink.

He said police feared further attacks, especially with four bombers on the
loose.

McDowell continues his evidence today.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday

United Nations: Security Council Press Statement On Terrorist Attacks In Spain

LENGTH: 299 words


RDATE:24092008

The following Security Council press statement on the terrorist attacks in Spain
was read out today by Council President Michel Kafando ( Burkina Faso):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the recent
terrorist attacks in Spain, which caused death and injuries.

The members of the Security Council expressed their condolences to the families
of the victims and to the people and Government of Spain.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to
justice and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with the Spanish authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reiterated that all acts of terrorism are
criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, and reaffirmed the
need to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United
Nations, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must ensure that
measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and
humanitarian law.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to combat all
forms of terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of
the United Nations.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                          September 25, 2008 Thursday

Terrorist attack response plans

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 162 words


Terrorist attack response plans were delivered to 60 Truro businesses at a
meeting on Tuesday.

Police, firefighters and emergency planners took staff from shops, banks, bars
and restaurants through a simulated a terrorist attack with an audio-visual
presentation.

Although it was strongly emphasised no attack was facing the city, officers
earmarked Truro shopping centre as a potential prime target and explored ways of
preventing, handling and recovering from an attack.

It was part of 'Project Argus', a National Counter Terrorism Security Office
(NaCTSO) initiative.

Supt Elaine Marshall said: "This has not been arranged because we are aware of a
specific threat, but because we want businesses to be prepared in the event of
such an incident. Recent events have illustrated that this type of attack can
happen anywhere and I'm sure that the fact that local businesses and the police
will use this forum to focus on this issue together will prove to be immensely
useful."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2008 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                               September 25, 2008

Terrorist attack response plans;
Terrorist attack response plans were delivered to 60 Truro businesses at a
meeting on Tuesday.

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 146 words


Police, firefighters and emergency planners took staff from shops, banks, bars
and restaurants through a simulated a terrorist attack with an audio-visual
presentation.

Although it was strongly emphasised no attack was facing the city, officers
earmarked Truro shopping centre as a potential prime target and explored ways of
preventing, handling and recovering from an attack.

It was part of 'Project Argus', a National Counter Terrorism Security Office
(NaCTSO) initiative.

Supt Elaine Marshall said: "This has not been arranged because we are aware of a
specific threat, but because we want businesses to be prepared in the event of
such an incident. Recent events have illustrated that this type of attack can
happen anywhere and I'm sure that the fact that local businesses and the police
will use this forum to focus on this issue together will prove to be immensely
useful."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2008 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                               September 25, 2008

Terrorist attack response plans;
Terrorist attack response plans were delivered to 60 Truro businesses at a
meeting on Tuesday.

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 146 words


Police, firefighters and emergency planners took staff from shops, banks, bars
and restaurants through a simulated a terrorist attack with an audio-visual
presentation.

Although it was strongly emphasised no attack was facing the city, officers
earmarked Truro shopping centre as a potential prime target and explored ways of
preventing, handling and recovering from an attack.

It was part of 'Project Argus', a National Counter Terrorism Security Office
(NaCTSO) initiative.

Supt Elaine Marshall said: "This has not been arranged because we are aware of a
specific threat, but because we want businesses to be prepared in the event of
such an incident. Recent events have illustrated that this type of attack can
happen anywhere and I'm sure that the fact that local businesses and the police
will use this forum to focus on this issue together will prove to be immensely
useful."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2008 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 26, 2008 Friday

Major terror attack averted in Pakistan's Karachi - police

LENGTH: 270 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Karachi, 26 September: A senior police official said Friday [26 September]
police and intelligence agencies have saved Karachi city from a major incident
of terrorism.

CCPO [Capital City Police Officer] Karachi Wasim Ahmed told APP that two
suspected suicide bombers, belonging to a banned militant organization were
crushed to death when a house in Baldia Town collapsed in a bomb blast during an
encounter with police this morning.

He said that the suspected bombers were hiding in a house in Baldia Town when
police conducted a raid early morning on the pointation of their ring leader who
was also arrested by police during Sehri [pre-dawn meal during Ramadan].

Wasim said that they were probably preparing for some terrorist activity in the
metropolis.

The deceased were also wanted in two previous terrorist activities - Nishtar
Park explosion and murder of Allama Hasan Turabi respectively.

They also hurled hand grenades on police party and resorted to heavy fire from
automatic weapons, he added.

He said that the area was cleared before the raid and residents were asked to
vacate their house to avoid casualties of innocent citizens. "We knew that the
suspects had a large quantity of explosive and sophisticated weapons and they
would use them, he added.

CCPO said that they blew up themselves when they consumed their ammunition
during the encounter. He said police was alert in the city and had a
comprehensive security plan to avoid any terrorist plan.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0627gmt
26 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           September 26, 2008 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

TEEN FIEND ATTACKED 8 WOMEN;
Single night of terror

BYLINE: by STEPHEN WILKIE

SECTION: NEWS; 22

LENGTH: 269 words


A TEENAGE RAF cadet has admitted carrying out eight sex attacks in less than
three hours.

Robert Thomson - who was 15 at the time of the assaults across Glasgow in June -
was caught after police released CCTV images.

The fiend, now aged 16, approached women and either made indecent suggestions or
simply pounced, dragging them to the ground.

The High Court in Glasgow heard one woman was followed for 45 minutes before
Thomson struck.

He pleaded guilty to eight charges, including three of intent to rape and
several indecent assaults - all on the same day this summer.

Judge Lord Turnbull deferred sentence for reports and placed Thomson on the sex
offenders' register, remanding him to the secure Kibble Centre in Paisley.

The court heard his victims were all aged between 20 and 35.

The first woman was attacked near the city centre when Thomson asked her: "Do
you want a sh*g?" She walked off but Thomson grabbed her and pushed her towards
a nearby alley.

She managed to break free before the boy staggered off.

In another case, Thomson forced his victim to the ground, put his hand over her
mouth and lay on top of her simulating sex as she struggled to breath.

A short time later, he grabbed another victim around the neck at an underpass
before fondling her and pushing her over.

When he was snared by cops, Thomson said he could not remember some of the
attacks.

Defence counsel Mark Stewart QC said: "This is an unusual case." He added
Thomson, a first-time offender, had recently left school and had been a member
of the RAF cadets.

"He is someone who still harbours ambitions to serve in the Royal Air Force, "
he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEX ASSAULTS: CCTV image of Thomson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 28, 2008 Sunday

Turkey condemns terror attack in Syria

LENGTH: 156 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 28 September: Turkey condemned the terrorist attack staged near the
Syrian capital of Damascus on Saturday [27 September].

Turkey, which saw terrorism a crime against humanity, harshly condemned the
heinous attack in Syria, a Foreign Ministry statement said.

In the statement, the Ministry expressed Turkey's wish that the assailants of
the terrorist attack would be found as soon as possible.

Turkey also reaffirmed its support and contributions to maintaining peace and
stability in the Middle East.

A car packed with explosives blew up near Damascus, killing 17 and wounding 14.

Also, Premier Recep Tayyip Erdogan sent a condolence message to Syrian President
Bashar al-Asad and condemned the terrorist attack.

In his message, Erdogan reiterated Turkey's solidarity in the fight against
terrorism.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 0702 gmt 28 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 28, 2008 Sunday

Libyan leader condemns strongly Damascus "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 120 words


Text of report by state-owned Libyan TV on 28 September

The brother leader of the revolution [Col- Mu'ammar al-Qadhafi] yesterday
evening held a telephone conversation with President of the Syrian Arab Republic
Bashar al-Asad, during which he condemned strongly the terrorist attack which
was carried out in the Syrian capital, Damascus, yesterday morning.

The brother leader reiterated to the Syrian president his solidarity and the
solidarity of the Libyan people with their brothers in Syria. He also expressed
his heartfelt condolences and the condolences of the Libyan people to him, to
the Syrian people and to the families of the victims of this terrorist attack.

Source: Libyan TV, Tripoli, in Arabic 1230 gmt 28 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                               September 28, 2008

Boy killed in terrorist bomb attack in Delhi

BYLINE: Gethin Chamberlain, Delhi

SECTION: OBSERVER FOREIGN PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 241 words


A YOUNG boy was killed and at least 18 people injured in a bomb attack on a New
Delhi shopping area yesterday afternoon. The boy had seen the bombers drop a bag
containing the device and was trying to return it to them when it went off.

Witnesses said nine-year-old Santosh Kumar saw two men on a motorbike drop a bag
in Mehrauli market. He called out to them, 'Sir, you have dropped your bag,' and
picked it up, at which point the bomb went off. His brother said Santosh had
gone out to buy eggs.

The blasts came two weeks after five bombs killed at least 20 in the Indian
capital. A group calling itself the Indian Mujahideen claimed responsibility.

Police spokesman Rajan Bhagat confirmed that a boy had died in the explosion,
which happened in a flower market in south Delhi. 'A black motorcycle carrying
two people drove down and hurled a polythene bag containing a box, which
exploded when a child picked it up,' he said.

Deputy police commissioner HS Dhaliwal said 18 people were injured, three of
them critically. Several other Indian cities - Jaipur, Bangalore and Ahmedabad -
have also been hit by bombings since May, all of them claimed by the Indian
Mujahideen.

Since the New Delhi attacks two weeks ago, Indian police have launched a major
hunt for the suspected ringleaders of the shadowy group. Over the past week, 11
suspected militants have been arrested and two more were killed in a shoot-out
in a mainly-Muslim area of south Delhi.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                               September 28, 2008

WORLD BRIEFING: Boy killed in terrorist bomb attack in Delhi

BYLINE: Gethin Chamberlain, Delhi

SECTION: OBSERVER FOREIGN PAGES; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 202 words


A YOUNG boy was killed and at least 18 people injured in a bomb attack on a
south Delhi shopping area yesterday afternoon. The boy had seen the bombers drop
a bag containing the device and was trying to return it to them when it went
off.

Witnesses said nine-year-old Santosh Kumar saw two men on a motorcycle drop a
bag in Mehrauli market. He called out, 'Sir, you have dropped your bag', and
picked it up. His brother said that Santosh had gone out to buy eggs.

The blasts came two weeks after five bombs killed 20 in the Indian capital. A
group called the Indian Mujahideen claimed responsibility.

Police spokesman Rajan Bhagat said: 'A black motorcycle carrying two people
drove down and hurled a polythene bag containing a box, which exploded when a
child picked it up.'

Deputy police commissioner HS Dhaliwal said that 18 people were injured, three
critically. Jaipur, Bangalore and Ahmedabad have also been hit by bombings since
May, all claimed by the Indian Mujahideen.

Since the Delhi attacks two weeks ago, Indian police have launched a major hunt
for the ringleaders. Over the past week, 11 suspected militants have been
arrested and two more were killed in a shoot-out in a mainly Muslim area of
south Delhi.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 28, 2008

Four arrests over 'terror' attack on publisher

BYLINE: ANDREW ALDERSON Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 456  words


FOUR PEOPLE were arrested in London yesterday over an alleged terrorist attack
on the publisher of a book about the prophet Mohammed.

The arrests are connected to a fire at a property in Islington, north London,
which is used as the home and office of Martin Rynja, a publisher.

His company, Gibson Square, recently bought the rights to a novel that is
considered by some to be more controversial than Salman Rushdie's, The Satanic
Verses. Sherry Jones's debut novel, The Jewel of Medina, has as its subject the
prophet and his child bride, Aisha.

The blaze yesterday, which led to people being evacuated from the house, might
have been started by a petrol bomb pushed through the letter box.

The first three men - aged 22, 30 and 40 - were detained at around 2.25am
yesterday after a fire broke out at a property in Lonsdale Square. Two were
stopped by armed officers at the scene and the third was seized when a car was
stopped by armed police near Angel Tube station.

Random House US, the leading publishing group, announced last May that it was
dropping its plans to publish the novel following warnings that it could incite
acts of violence from radical Muslims. The Jewel of Medina was also pulled from
bookshops in Serbia last month after pressure from an Islamic group.

Gibson Square bought the rights to Jones's book, which will be published next
month, in Britain, Australia and New Zealand after Random House pulled out. The
book will be published by Beaufort Books in the United States.

Speaking before yesterday's attack, Mr Rynja said: "In an open society there has
to be open access to literary works, regardless of fear. As an independent
publishing company, we feel strongly that we should not be afraid of the
consequences of debate.

"If a novel of quality and skill that casts light on a beautiful subject we know
too little of in the West, but have a genuine interest in, cannot be published
here, it would truly mean that the clock has been turned back to the dark ages.
The Jewel of Medina has become an important barometer of our time.''

He added that he hoped that once people read the novel there would be a "healthy
discussion'' about its content.

Mr Rynja was unavailable for comment yesterday.

The writer, also speaking before the attack, said that her novel was not
intended to be disrespectful to Islam. "I have deliberately and consciously
written respectfully about Islam and Mohammed,'' she said. "I envisaged that my
book would be a bridge-builder.''

The men, who were arrested on suspicion of the commission, preparation or
instigation of acts of terrorism, were being questioned at a central London
police station. Later yesterday a woman was arrested at a property in Ilford for
allegedly obstructing the police.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 29, 2008 Monday

Syrian "official media source" condemns "terrorist" attack on Lebanese bus

LENGTH: 168 words


Text of report by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["A media source condemns the criminal terrorist action that targeted a Lebanese
Army bus in Tripoli" - SANA headline]

Damascus, 29 Sep (SANA) - An official media source has condemned the criminal
terrorist action that targeted a Lebanese Army bus in the city of Tripoli,
northern Lebanon this morning, which claimed the lives of a number of soldiers
and innocent citizens.

In a statement to SANA, the source expressed Syria's sympathy and solidarity
with fraternal Lebanon in confronting the quarters that are tampering with its
security and stability and offered condolences to the families of the victims.

A booby-trapped car explosion this morning, which targeted a military bus in
Tripoli, in northern Lebanon, killed five people and wounded 35 soldiers and
civilians.

It is noteworthy that this terrorist action is the second that targeted the
Lebanese Army in Tripoli within two months.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in Arabic 29 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 29, 2008 Monday

Algerian gendarme said killed in "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 353 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 27
September

[Report by A. L.: "Ain Defla: Gendarme Assassinated in a Terrorist Attack"]

The attack that was perpetrated at 2315 hours on Wednesday [24 September] on
elements from the National Gendarmerie that were on duty at the entrance to the
municipality of Boumedfaa (east of the main town in Ain Defla Province), given
its dramatic nature, given the number of elements engaged in that action and its
method, according to accounts, continues to figure prominently in local news, a
sign of the worry of the population after the resurgence of violence that has
intermittently marked this sacred month.

So, according to matching sources, the armed group that was the perpetrator of
the attack at the permanent National Gendarmerie roadblock was made up of about
40 individuals who in all likelihood had come from the Hammam Righa mountains on
the border with the wilaya of Tipaza, matching sources indicated. The attackers,
who were wearing ordinary dress, according to accounts, did not attract the
attention of citizens, who were out in numbers on that Ramadhan evening on that
usually heavily trafficked axis of National Road [RN] 4. They then split into
groups to block highway accesses to traffic, our sources also added. One of the
armed elements fired at the gendarmes, killing one of them and wounding two
others; the terrorist took the time to seize his victim's Kalashnikov.

Sustained fire rained down on the sentry box of the National Gendarmerie billet
and on the entrance to the building located several meters away from the scene
of the attack to allow the whole group to retreat. Let us point out that the two
wounded gendarmes were evacuated to the Blida health sector while reinforcements
made up of combined security forces were dispatched to the scene and the
surrounding areas. Last, let us remind readers that three municipal guars have
perished in recent days in attacks which occurred to the southeast and the
southwest of the main town in the wilaya of Ain Defla.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 0000 gmt 27 Sep 08

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 29, 2008 Monday

United Nations: Security Council press statement on Damascus terrorist attack

LENGTH: 304 words


RDATE:27092008

The following press statement on the terrorist attack in Damascus was read out
today by Security Council President Michel Kafando ( Burkina Faso):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms the
terrorist attack that occurred in Damascus today, 27 September 2008, causing
numerous deaths and injuries.

The members of the Security Council expressed their condolences to the families
of the victims and to the people and Government of Syria.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators,
organizers, financiers and sponsors of this reprehensible act of terrorism to
justice and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under
international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate
actively with the Syrian authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reiterated that all acts of terrorism are
criminal and unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, and reaffirmed the
need to combat by all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United
Nations, threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must ensure that
measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their obligations under
international law, in particular international human rights, refugee and
humanitarian law.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to combat all
forms of terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of
the United Nations.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 30, 2008 Tuesday

United Nations: Secretary-General strongly condemns terrorist attack in Tripoli,
Lebanon

LENGTH: 158 words


RDATE:29092008

The following statement was issued today by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon:

The Secretary-General strongly condemns the terrorist attack that took place
today in the city of Tripoli, reportedly killing at least four people including
three members of the Lebanese Armed Forces. He conveys his condolences to the
families of the victims, as well as to the Government and Armed Forces of
Lebanon. He hopes that the perpetrators of this act will be brought to justice.
The Secretary-General remains encouraged by the measures taken in recent weeks
by the Lebanese to resume the national dialogue and calls upon them not to be
deterred by this new attack.

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 1, 2008 Wednesday

Pakistan PM terms US attacks inside Pakistan "terrorism" -TV

LENGTH: 123 words


Text of report by Karachi-based private Pakistani channel Geo TV website on 1
October

Islamabad: Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gillani has termed the US attacks
inside Pakistan's territory as terrorism.

Speaking to media persons at Prime Minister House here on Wednesday [1 October],
Prime Minister Gillani said his government wants to take all the coalition
partners on board on national issues. He said war against terrorism is
Pakistan's own war.

He said, "It is government's responsibility to provide security to foreign
diplomats and ambassadors, adding security will be provided to foreign
diplomats."

Premier Gillani informed that joint sitting of parliament would be called soon.

Source: sGeo TV website, Karachi, in English 01 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           October 1, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Terror attack victims meet to share their agonies

BYLINE: LAURA SHARPE Daily Post Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 490 words


TERRORIST victims from around the world gathered in Warrington yesterday to
speak about their experiences.

A group of 10 people who had either been directly targeted by a bomb or gun
attack or had members of their family killed by terrorists spoke about their
recovery as victims.

They met at the Peace Centre, set up after the 1993 IRA bombing of Warrington,
as part of a Voice of the Victims conference.

Mo Norton, who used to live in Warrington, lost her brother in 1974 when the IRA
planted a bomb in a coach he was travelling on from Manchester.

A total of 12 people were killed, including a five-year-old and a two-year-old,
and she said the death had an unbelievable effect on her family.

She said: "My father died prematurely because of my brother losing his life, it
had an unbelievable effect on my family.

"There was no support, no counselling, we were left to get on with it."

Mo said it was only after she went to Northern Ireland and sat in the same room
with IRA members that her life turned around.

She said: "I knew it wasn't going to be easy, but the turning point was when
someone who introduced himself as an IRA member said to me 'we didn't plant the
bomb to embarrass the government, we did it to kill the soldiers'.

"I said to them 'did you mean to kill the children, too? I realised then that I
wasn't frightened of the IRA and that I didn't need to be frightened any more."

The conference also heard from Alberto Torregiani, from Italy, who has been
wheelchair bound since he was shot in the spine by a Communist terrorist group.

Eloy Moran, a victim of the Madrid bombings, said he remembers hearing a big
bang and thought he was going to explode.

Recounting that day, he said: "I remember from that moment when I couldn't move
that there was no noise, silence, a tremendous silence, no-one was screaming."

Juan Antonio Garcia Casquero, a victim of an Eta bomb in Spain, said victims
were abandoned by society as if they didn't exist, and many people thought they
must have done something wrong to be attacked.

After recounting their harrowing experiences, the speakers then moved on to the
positive side, and how they had joined together with other victims.

Mr Moran said: "I decided to do something, but that was the last thing I felt
like doing; I wanted to stay home like a little mouse.

"But I survived, God gave me a second chance and I decided to contact and track
down all the other victims."

Mr Moran conducted the arduous task of locating all the victims and set up a
support group to help victims with counselling and any court cases they may have
to face.

The first of four events held across Europe, the conference was run by the Tim
Parry Johnathan Ball Foundation for Peace, in conjunction with the European
Network of Victims of Terrorism (VNET).

What do you think?

Email us with your views at letters@dailypost.co.uk, or write to us PO Box 48,
Old Hall Street, Liverpool L69 3EB

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            October 2, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Two doctors on trial over airport terrorist attack;
Court case in London likely to last 12 weeks

BYLINE: MARIANNE TAYLOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 322 words


TWO NHS doctors accused of plotting the terrorist attack on Glasgow Airport are
expected to go on trial today.

Jordanian national Mohammed Jamil Asha, 28, and Iraqi Bilal Abdullah, 29, are
accused of crashing a flaming Jeep Cherokee, loaded with gas canisters and
petrol, into security barriers at the airport's main terminal.

The attack happened on June 30, 2007, while thousands of holidaymakers and staff
were inside the building.

The trial is expected to begin today but it's thought there will be at least a
week of legal arguments before the prosecution opens its case.

It is likely to last at least 12 weeks.

The pair, who are appearing at Woolwich Crown Court in London, are also accused
of planning a similar attack in London a day earlier, leaving two Mercedes
packed with gas cylinders and nails outside Tiger Tiger nightclub in Haymarket.

The bombs failed to explode.

Abdullah, of the halls of residence, Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley, and
Asha, of Sunningdale Grove, Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire, are accused of
conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause explosions between January 1, 2006,
and July 1, 2007.

Both men deny the charges.

Abdullah, who worked at the Royal Alexandra Hospital, was the fi rst person to
be charged in connection with the plots.

He was arrested by police immediately after the airport attack.

Asha was arrested in a police swoop while travelling north on the M6 in
Cheshire.

His wife Marwa Asha, 27, who was arrested at the same time, was later released
without charge.

Another man, Kafeel Ahmed, 27, was driving the Jeep which crashed into the
terminal building.

Ahmed, an engineer who rented a home in Houston, Renfrewshire, set himself on
fire and died in August 2007 after suffering thirddegree burns to 90-per cent of
his body.

Following a hearing at the Old Bailey in London in April, Ahmed's 26-year-old
brother Sabeel Ahmed was jailed for 18 months for withholding information from
police.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The blazing Jeep Cherokee after the attack at Glasgow Airport in June
last year

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 2, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

How I became a target for Israel's 'Jewish terrorists';
Peace campaigner attacked with a pipe bomb tells Donald Macintyre why militant
Zionism should be feared

BYLINE: Donald Macintyre

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1094 words


Zeev Sternhell is careful about his choice of words when he unhesitatingly calls
the pipe bomb which exploded outside his front door last week "an act of Jewish
terrorism."

As a Holocaust survivor orphaned by the age of seven and a combat veteran of
Israel's wars, Professor Sternhell, 73, who was lucky to have only been injured
in the leg by flying shrapnel from the bomb, is "horrified" not for himself but
because it might have hit his wife, daughter his grandchildren on one of their
sleepovers, or their neighbours. "It was a terror act because they couldn't know
who would have been hit."

Given that, as he wryly puts it, he has no known enemies in the "criminal
underworld", the reason for what police think was attempted murder isn't hard to
find. As a veteran member of Peace Now, and vigorous opponent of the occupation
since the late 1970s, the Hebrew University scholar, Israel Prize laureate and
internationally-known authority on the roots of fascism apparently became the
target of the highest-profile attack inside Israel by far right-wing Jewish
extremists since Yitzhak Rabin's assassination in 1995.

But if the attack was meant to silence one of the country's foremost public
intellectuals, it hasn't worked. For a start he does not rule out a connection
with strong signs of increasing violence by settlers against Palestinians in the
West Bank. In recent weeks, extremist settlers have rioted, blocked roads,
burned Palestinian orchards and in one case, armed settlers have attacked a
village.

Lamenting that the army and the police are "either unwilling or unable or
probably both" to enforce the law against attacks on Palestinians in a West Bank
where the settlers enjoy a kind of "self rule", he says the extremists believe
that "people like me who think that they are the real danger to Zionism, to the
future of the Israeli state, should be neutralised and should be punished ... So
I think there is a link between the brutality and violence that is the reality
of everyday life in the West Bank and this attack."

Of the 250,000 West Bank settlers he estimates that only some 40,000 to 50,000
are truly ideological and of these only "a few thousand are ready to use force."
He pinpoints the new generation of "hilltop youth" who, in a pattern familiar
from "revolutionary movements", regard their aging leadership as "traitors" for
being willing to discuss with the government even the possibility of voluntary
evacuation from a few outposts.

Activists who are "deeply convinced that the future of the Jewish people depends
on them," therefore regard violence as legitimate and believe that "God is with
us, and God will see to it that we will get rid of the Palestinians. That is
more or less their philosophy."

For Professor Sternhell, the answer is the early evacuation of "at least 95 per
cent of the West Bank" and for the authorities to prepare to bring the settlers
across back across the 1967 border and into Israel. But here there is a paradox.
On the one hand, he believes that the violence may stem "from a sense of
urgency" on the extreme right because "they have reached the conclusion that the
Israeli political elite is now much closer to what I think than to their ideas".

This conclusion was reinforced by the outgoing Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, who
this week finally acknowledged something that Professor Sternhell has been
arguing for 30 years - that almost all the West Bank will have to be handed back
if there is to be peace. But while he thinks ideologically the left may have won
a "battle" - though not the "war" - he is highly conscious that after relentless
settlement growth over 40 years, bringing the settlers "home" in practice will
be "a very tough job" and questions whether the Israeli establishment has "the
moral energy and leadership capability" to carry it through.

"The Israeli political elite is very weak ... the fact is that the people in
power are not ready for the confrontation with the settlers ... I am not
optimistic. I don't see who is able in the coming years to start confronting the
question seriously."

Which is why he believes that the only hope is a "strong intervention by the
international community - the US and EU". He adds: "I think that the British,
French the Germans should start thinking seriously about moving their arses and
trying to do something more than what Tony Blair is doing."

Professor Sternhell may be stretching Mr Blair's mandate as Middle East envoy by
declaring that he is "in charge of negotiations". But he is in deadly earnest
when he considers: "I personally have reached the conclusion we cannot do it on
our own, due to the weaknesses of the Israeli democracy, the weakness of the
Palestinian Authority."

Saying that the "step by step" approach of Oslo was a "total mistake", he
insists: "All the issues need to be dealt with together and everyone with an
interest in the Middle East must participate I don't see how things can move
otherwise."

Asked how he feels, as a Jew with his classic Israeli biography, to have had his
home attacked by Jews, Professor Sternhell muses that: "Everybody is able to do
anything. Being Jewish or not being Jewish does not immunize you from all the
evils that can exist in history and politics."

Just as it makes him "very, very unhappy" to see Sudanese refugees arriving in
Israel from Egypt being treated not so differently from how "Jews were treated
in Europe 70 years ago", so he is also mortified to see "Jews as occupiers of
the West Bank" - or the treatment by Israeli soldiers of Palestinians - not
because the soldiers want it but because of a "horrible" situation.

And he says: "What I want to do is to change the situation."

The thoughts of Zeev Sternhell

An Israeli scholar's verdict

*On Tony Blair

The Middle East envoy on behalf ofthe US, the EU, the UN and Russia, the
so-called Quartet.

"Tony Blair is transforming himself from a ten-year successful Prime Minister
into a ridiculous figure, a clown. He is now in charge of negotiations, so what
is he doing exactly. Where is he?"

*On Ehud Olmert

Outgoing Prime Minister of Israel (right) and a recent convert to the idea of
handing back "almost all" of the West Bank.

"He's just 30 years late. It's unbelievable. This is what [we on the left] have
been saying for 30 years."

*On Ehud Barak

Israeli Defence Minister.

"It's funny - well, not funny buttragic - to see a man like Ehud Barak, a real
war hero, someone who was scared of nothing, who didn't know what it meant to be
scared. [Yet] politically, a confrontation with the settlers is beyond his
capacity. It's very sad."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      October 2, 2008 Thursday 7:01 PM BST

TERROR ATTACKS MEMORIAL £1BN OVER BUDGET

BYLINE: Wesley Johnson, PA, in New York

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 356 words


A permanent memorial in New York to the 67 Britons and thousands of others who
died in the September 11 terror attacks will be completed by the tenth
anniversary, owners of the World Trade Centre site said today.

But some of the trees outside the memorial may not be planted and a visitor's
centre may not be open as the redevelopment plans are one billion dollars (£560
million) over budget and behind schedule.

Joe Daniels, president of the National September 11 Memorial and Museum, said
last month that it was both ``possible and essential'' for the project to be
opened by September 11, 2011, but today the owners said the underground museum
would not open until 2013.

The eagerly-awaited 70-page report by the Port Authority of New York and New
Jersey also found that completion of the signature project, a 1,776-foot Freedom
Tower now under construction, is about 200 million dollars (£112m) over budget
and will be delayed several months to 2013.

The elaborate rail hub will cost 3.2 billion dollars (£1.8bn), 700 million
dollars (£393m) more than planned, and should open in 2014.

Additional parts of the project are also over budget, bringing the final tally
to more than one billion dollars (£560m) over estimates.

In a letter to New York state governor David Paterson, the agency's executive
director Christopher Ward said: ``While we still face many challenges ahead, we
believe we have created a level of certainty and control over this project that
has been missing since its inception.''

But he added: ``I cannot promise that we will meet every single milestone every
step of the way.

``This is the most complex construction program in the region's history and
setbacks are inevitable.''

He also admitted that the new deadlines ``will be met with a degree of
scepticism.''

The agency did not set schedules for four other office towers planned for the
site or for a performing arts centre, and did not issue a final budget for the
memorial.

Mr Ward said the report reflected an understanding of the realities of building
from scratch a complex of interconnected skyscrapers, transit links and cultural
space in a hole seven stories deep.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 3, 2008 Friday

All "terrorist attacks" suspects to be tried in shari'ah courts - Saudi minister

LENGTH: 466 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on 3 October

[Report by P. K. Abdul Ghafour from Jedda: "Shariah Courts To Try Terror
Suspects: Naif"]

Interior Minister Prince Naif announced late Wednesday night [1 October] that
all suspected militants arrested for plotting to carry out terrorist attacks in
the Kingdom would be transferred to Shariah courts shortly to take action
against them.

"God willing, they all will be transferred to the judiciary to give its verdict
on them in accordance with what God has ordained to prevent sedition. ... We
don't punish anybody except on the basis of a court verdict," the prince said.

Addressing princes, ministers, Islamic scholars and commanders of security
forces who came to greet him at his office on the occasion of Eid Al-Fitr,
Prince Naif said investigations of the arrested suspects were progressing to
collect more information.

"By the Grace of God, we have uncovered several plots to undermine the Kingdom's
security. When time comes we'll provide more information to citizens about such
plots," the Saudi Press Agency quoted Naif as saying.

Last June, the Interior Ministry announced the arrests of 701 suspected
militants for plotting to carry out terrorist attacks. Some of the detainees,
according to Maj. Gen. Mansour Al-Turki, the ministry's spokesman, were planning
to stage terrorist attacks on oil fields and other vital installations.

"You know that Islam is targeted and your country with all its honour and pride
is an Islamic country with Qur'an and Sunnah being its constitution... and we
depend on ourselves after God the Almighty," Prince Naif told the well-wishers
Wednesday night.

Prince Naif emphasized that security agents would not put extra pressure on
suspects to win confessions. "We are capable of implementing court verdicts (on
the militants)", he added.

He praised the security forces for their efforts to foil many terrorist attacks
inside the Kingdom. "By the Grace of God, we don't need anybody except God...
During the past years we have not resorted to the help of others, except God and
our security officers," he said referring to Saudi Arabia's successful
anti-terror campaigns that won the country international applause.

Prince Naif urged all Saudis including Islamic scholars, intellectuals and media
persons to play their respective roles in protecting the country's security and
stability. "Everybody should understand that we are not only dealing with
individuals but also deviant thoughts."

Islamic scholars have a duty to explain the tolerant and peaceful teachings of
Islam. He also urged parents to keep a watch on their children. "The state is
capable of protecting their children from evil and guiding them to the right
path," he added.

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 3 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 3, 2008 Friday

Russian Foreign Ministry condemns South Ossetia terrorist attack

LENGTH: 192 words


Excerpt from report by Russian state news agency RIA Novosti

Moscow, 3 October: The Russian Foreign Ministry resolutely condemns the
terrorist attack that has killed seven Russian peacekeepers [in Tskhinvali], a
source in the Russian Foreign Ministry has told RIA Novosti.

"This crime shows that certain forces are striving to destabilize the situation
and disrupt the efforts to restore peace and security in the region. Specific
measures are needed to put an end to such attempts, provocative actions against
South Ossetia and Abkhazia," the agency's source said.

[Passage omitted: details of the attack.]

He said issues of security of these states are becoming urgent and they have to
be considered in the context of specific measures that are currently being taken
with the participation of the EU and the OSCE. Russia, for its part, intends to
implement steadily the existing settlement plans, the source noted.

The Georgian Interior Ministry says that they do not have any information
regarding the car explosion. [Passage omitted: details of an earlier blast in
Leningori District.]

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1523 gmt 3 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily Record (PM) - UK

                             October 3, 2008 Friday
                                  East Edition

Knife attack terror for girl

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 177 words


POLICE sealed off Leith Links this morning after a teenage girl was threatened
by a thug with a knife.

Cops cordoned off the area to search for the weapon after the incident in the
early hours.

The attacker - a man aged around 35 with a Glasgow accent - brandished a knife
at the terrified 17-year-old as she walked across the Links.

Officers said today that she was "extremely shaken" but unhurt after her ordeal.

The heavy police presence in the area sparked fears among parents bringing their
children to nearby St Mary's Primary this morning.

One youngmumsaid: "It was very worrying. No one knew what had happened. All
sorts of rumours were flying around that there had been an attempted murder or a
rape."

A Lothian and Borders police spokesman said: "The area was sealed off to allow
teams of officers to search for the knife."

He described the suspect as stocky with short dark hair. He wore a light top,
dark jeans and trainers.

Police are urging any witnesses or anyone who recognises the description of the
knifeman to call them on 0131 311 3 131.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             October 3, 2008 Friday

'Severe' risk of terrorist attack close to 7/7 level

BYLINE:  Michael Evans Defence Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.27

LENGTH: 526 words


The terrorist threat to Britain from home-grown al-Qaeda-inspired radical
Muslims is almost as high as it was after the July 7 suicide bombings in London
in 2005, according to the latest security assessment.

The threat level has been graded "severe", the second-highest terrorist-alert
status, for the past 12 months. After the July 7 bombings, followed by the July
21 failed plot, the threat assessment was put at "critical", indicating a red
alert. Since then the level was raised once more to "critical", during incidents
in Glasgow and London last year, and then reduced to "severe".

A senior Whitehall source, however, admitted yesterday: "It's now at the severe
end of 'severe'." The official said that the police and MI5 were working at full
capacity to keep abreast of all suspected terrorist plots. Evidence from
intelligence operations and information gleaned from within Muslim communities
have indicated that there is an increased level of terrorist-related activity.

"There's lot of ambient activity, some of it sourced to al-Qaeda core
(leadership) in the Pakistan/Afghanistan border area," one source said.

Four special counter-terrorist "hubs" have been established in London,
Manchester, Birmingham and Leeds to increase joint police and MI5 efforts in
dealing with suspected terrorists. A fifth hub is being planned.

A key al-Qaeda figure, in the view of the British intelligence community, is
Rashid Rauf, suspected of being linked to the Heathrow bomb plot of August 2006.
Mr Rauf, a British citizen of Pakistani origin, fled from his home in Birmingham
in 2002 after his uncle was found murdered, and was arrested in Pakistan in 2006
on suspicion of involvement in the Heathrow plot. He escaped and is believed to
be in the tribal regions in Pakistan. "Rashid Rauf is key to us," the official
said.

The Whitehall source added that there was new concern over lone terrorists -
individuals who have acquired bomb-making expertise without having any obvious
affiliation either to known radical groups in this country or to al-Qaeda
masterminds in Pakistan. Detecting lone would-be bombers was a big challenge,
the official said, but he emphasised that increasingly active dialogue with
leaders of Britain's mosques might help.

MI5 has indicated that about 2,000 individuals in Britain are regarded as being
involved in terrorist-related activity, and this figure may now have risen,
according to security sources.

The Government, through the Office for Security and CounterTerrorism at the Home
Office, is drawing up a new counter-terror strategy, due to be published at the
end of the year. There will also be a set of 19 target indicators issued to
gauge progress made. Some of these targets will remain classified.

As part of the strategy, the Government is now funding organisations that run
anti-Jihad and anti-al-Qaeda websites, in an attempt to counter propaganda put
out by extremist Muslim organisations. The Department of Education is also
expected to issue guidelines for teachers in schools with a strong Muslim
presence to try to get across a more positive message about life and values in
Britain.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                            October 5, 2008, Sunday

RAPIST COP LET LOOSE ON OUR STREETS;
EXCLUSIVE WE TRACK DOWN SEX ATTACKER AFTER HIS RELEASE SPARKS TERROR

BYLINE: By STEVE SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 370 words


THIS is rapist police inspector Adam Carruthers back on the streets where he
terrorised dozens of women.

The shamed former officer is a despised outcast in the communities of Dumfries
and Galloway.

Our exclusive picture gives the first glimpse of the serial sex attacker since
he was freed from prison last month, where he served seven years for raping two
women.

We can reveal the disgraced former Dumfries and Galloway inspector has already
been banned from his local shop and ordered to keep away from lone women.

Neighbours and his shattered victims are terrified of the monster who moved back
to the former police station home he shares with wife Margaret, 44, in tiny
Penpont. She is standing by him.

Dad-of-two Carruthers, 45, has pals in the village willing to run errands,
drivehimto a police station in Dumfries to sign the sex offenders' register and
even fetch his morning paper.

One local in Penpont said last night: "People are sick to the stomach that he's
got the nerve to move back here as though nothing has happened.

"He should be treated like the outcast he is. Nobody wants him back."

We watched as Carruthers was driven away by a neighbour shortly after Margaret
left for work as a receptionist at a health centre. His secluded home is on the
outskirts of the tiny village which has a population of around 1000 people.

Carruthers was found guilty in May 2001 of raping two women while he was a
sergeant based at Langholm police station, Dumfriesshire. He was eventually
jailed for 12 years but had his sentence cut by a year on appeal.

An internal Dumfries and Galloway police investigation found 38 women who said
Carruthers had raped, attacked or harassed them during his 20-year police
career.

He will be on the sex offenders' register for life and must tell police of any
change of address and if he plans to go abroad for three days or more.

Carruthers spent most of his sentence at Peterhead Prison, which houses
Scotland's worst sex offenders, before being moved to Kilmarnock Prison shortly
before his release.

The arrogant ex-cop refused to take part in sex offender programmes in jail and
has refused to admit his guilt or show any remorse for his appalling crimes.

SUNDAY EMAIL

reporters@sundaymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIRST PICTURE Caught on camera: Rapist ex-cop Carruthers breaks cover
Disgraced: Carruthers in uniform

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 6, 2008 Monday

Turkish deputy chief of staff briefs press on terrorist attack

LENGTH: 2150 words


Text of report by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara (AA) -General Staff Deputy Chief General Hasan Igsiz, stating that the
[PKK] terrorist organization, which is in a process of dissolution, is seeking a
way out, has said: "The way out is an action that will have resonance. They are
seeking actions that will have little risk for themselves, but will have a great
deal of resonance. They were unable to accomplish this at Aktutun."

Stressing that this struggle is a struggle between the terrorist organization
and the security forces, General Igsiz said: "None of our citizens must be
brought into this. Generalizations must not be made. Individual incidents must
be left at the individual level."

Speaking in a press briefing held in the Inonu Assembly Hall of the General
Staff Headquarters, General Igsiz provided information to the Ankara
representatives of media organizations, and to defence reporters, regarding the
attack on the Aktutun Border Outpost and the fighting that ensued afterwards.

Describing with maps and diagrams the region where the Aktutun Border Outpost is
located at the beginning of his briefing, General Igsiz also presented images
taken yesterday from Bayraktepe, where the fighting had taken place. Included in
the footage, which was also distributed to press organizations, were the
position of Aktutun Village, with its 73 families, as well as the central and
security elements of the border company.

General Igsiz, indicating that the region where Aktutun is located is one of
several important transit areas between Iraq and Hakkari, asserted that the
outpost itself blocks a very important avenue of approach to the interior
regions of Hakkari [province]. Noting that there exist 365 similar base areas
within the region of the 2d Army, General Igsiz said: "It is impossible for the
Commander of the Army to visit each of these one by one. But during the period
when I commanded the 2d Army, I went to Aktutun three times. This is an
indication of the importance we ascribe to the region."

Providing information as well on the reinforcements provided to the Aktutun
Gendarmerie Border Outpost at the beginning of the summer season, General Igsiz
noted that, based on the importance of the region, a Gendarmerie Special
Operations (JOH) Company, 2 motorized rifle columns, a mortar location radar, 2
tanks, 3 203-mm guns, 2 105-mm guns, 3 81-mm mortars, an anti-aircraft gun, and
291 personnel are assigned to the outpost.

Providing information on the fighting by illustrating with the diagrams, General
Igsiz said that the terrorists attacked from the north of Iraq and the west of
the outpost with anti-aircraft weapons, mortars, and machine guns, and opened
intense fire from Otyeritepe. Explaining that, after the locations of the
terrorists' mortar was determined with radar, this area was brought under
control with artillery fire, General Igsiz stated that the positions at
Bayraktepe, built with stones because the area is very rocky, were destroyed
during the terrorists' mortar fire. General Igsiz asserted that 13 of the 15
personnel martyred in the fighting were martyred as a result of shrapnel wounds.
General Igsiz advised that, during the incident, Cobra-type assault helicopters
were directed into the region from Hakkari, and that a terrorist group of 10 to
15 people was also hit by two F-16s.

"Not the Slightest Weakness in the Resistance"

General Hasan Igsiz, noting that reinforcements had been provided to Bayraktepe
from the mountain commando company and the JOH, said: "Something very
unfortunate took place at Bayraktepe. One of the six personnel in leadership
positions was martyred, and four others were wounded. Some problems were thus
suffered at Bayraktepe in terms of command and control. But with reinforcements
reaching Bayraktepe in the evening hours, the incident was brought under
control."

Stating that targets across the border were brought under control by the Air
Force and by artillery shelling, General Igsiz said: "Despite the loss of
leadership personnel, not the slightest weakness emerged in the resistance in
the area. Our martyrs fought heroically. We have still not been able to reach
two of our specialist non-commissioned officers. Our search efforts are
continuing. According to our assessments, our two specialists may have been
martyred. But the search operations continue without letup."

General Staff Deputy Chief Hasan Igsiz, stating that the goal of the terrorists
had been, after taking complete control of Bayraktepe, to "establish influence"
over the Aktutun company headquarters, said that the terrorist organization had
been unable to reach this goal, and that the known number of its casualties in
the fighting was 23. General Igsiz, indicating that the number of terrorists
neutralized by the Air Force and by artillery shelling was not included in this
figure, noted that "we consider that the terrorist casualties were significantly
higher than this."

"We Will Determine Where We Look"

General Igsiz answered questions afterwards.

Stating that "there is a different conception" in terms of intelligence, General
Igsiz spoke as follows:

"If you have the technical capabilities, you can keep everyplace under
monitoring. But technical capabilities do not work in this way. Our
capabilities, technically, are not at a level to take every area under control.
And there is no such technology in the world. We can monitor an area of 100 or
150 meters. This means looking at any area on the map that is no bigger than a
pencil point. But using technical capabilities properly is a matter of skill.
Our colleagues' skill is at a very high level. But if you scan the entire
region, it would take a year. The selection process is carried out with great
skill."

General Igsiz, noting that these technical capabilities are also impacted by the
weather and by terrain conditions, said: "We cannot claim that we see every bird
that flies here. No one can see them."

Explaining that they get no support in terms of intelligence from the local
administration in the north of Iraq, General Igsiz pointed out that the
terrorist organization utilizes infrastructural resources there such as roads
and hospitals. General Igsiz said: "Not harming the civilian population is one
of our fundamental principles. For the sake of this, we have avoided exploiting
even some very good opportunities that have arisen. And the organization
exploits this. Particularly in an important portion of the north of Iraq,
organization members are located in places very close to the people. And the
local administration makes no efforts to prevent this."

Responding to another question, General Igsiz said that intelligence sharing
with the United States continues, and that there has been no problem in this
regard. "But," he said, "we determine where we are going to look."

Began Early

General Hasan Igsiz, noting that imagery of a terrorist group of a few people
had been identified one night before the fighting at Bayraktepe, advised that
imagery of this sort can be obtained from time to time, that artillery was then
brought to bear, and that, in the morning, the JOH team was sent to Bayraktepe.

Relating that when the Gendarmerie unit that was dispatched established contact,
the terrorists launched their action immediately, General Igsiz indicated that
the first person hit at Bayraktepe was the soldier using a thermal camera.
General Igsiz, asserting that the beginning of the action in the middle of the
day "was not a time the terrorist organization preferred," noted that "due to
the fighting starting early taken after the reinforcing JOH team reached the
region, the organization was obliged to launch the action at that time."

Noting that it was clear that the terrorists had planned to carry the mortars to
nearby locations and use them, General Igsiz said that they had planned first to
establish influence with the mortars and then to begin an infiltration-type
activity afterwards in the dark. General Igsiz said: "They did try to
infiltrate, and they paid a heavy price for it."

General Igsiz said it is believed that the terrorists came into the region in
small groups.

"Seeking Action That Will Create Resonance"

General Hasan Igsiz spoke as follows:

"The organization is moving towards the breaking point. This is not just our
thinking. Today, a large portion of the organization members, and their
sympathizers, are also worried about this. Rifts have been appearing within the
organization. Increasing numbers are leaving it.

"The organization is seeking a way out. The way out is an action that will have
resonance. They are seeking actions that will have little risk for themselves,
but will have a great deal of resonance. They were unable to accomplish this at
Aktutun. The organization's goal was to manage this affair with minimal losses,
and after occupying the hilltop to take control over the company down below. But
they were unable to accomplish this. Despite the fact that five of the six
leadership personnel at Bayraktepe were wounded, there was not the slightest
diminution in the resistance there."

Incident in Balikesir

General Staff Deputy Chief Hasan Igsiz, in answering a question from one
journalist as to whether or not the terrorist attack was linked to the incidents
[of clashes between Turks and Kurds] in Balikesir, spoke as follows:

"I do not give it much credence. But it must be kept in mind that this struggle
is a struggle between the terrorist organization and the security forces.
Efforts are being made by certain circles for this to be turned into a struggle
between various different groups, and peoples. In the Balikesir incident, it
would be useful for all of our citizens to be very careful from this standpoint.
This struggle is a struggle between the organization and the security forces.
None of our citizens must be brought into this. Generalizations must not be
made. Individual incidents must be left at the individual level. And legally,
whoever commits a crime must pay the penalty."

Cross-Border Security Zone

General Igsiz also responded as follows to a question regarding the
establishment of a security zone along the Turkey-Iraq border:

"The establishment of a buffer zone between ourselves and the region occupied by
the organization is not as easy as it is said to be. In order to establish a
security zone, you have to assign a unit there. How big a unit will be required
to be deployed there, I wonder? Do the TSK have the luxury of being able to
assign so many units? And things do not end with putting a unit there. It
entails meeting all its needs as well... We have settled into all the important
places in our border regions where there could be crossings. Despite this,
crossings do occur, but under very difficult conditions. With the measures that
have been taken, a good many infiltrators are apprehended immediately."

General Hasan Igsiz, declaring that the Aktutun region is a very important
transit point, pointed out that the terrorist organization, when it is feeling
difficulties someplace, harasses that location; that the Aktutun region is a
place that has been harassed a great deal; and that 38 terrorist attacks, large
and small, have been made on the region since 1992. General Igsiz reported that,
since 1992, the terrorist attacks conducted against border outposts similar to
Aktutun have been 68 at Uzumlu, 30 at Alan, 127 at Uzundere, 20 at Samanli, and
371 at Eruh.

In response to a question, General Staff Deputy Chief Hasan Igsiz said that, in
the past, some border outposts had been established in low-lying locations due
to concern with smuggling, but that the need has been felt, when it has been
desired to utilize these outposts in the struggle against terrorism, for higher
points to be secured. However, said General Igsiz, "Aktutun is not included
among them. If you try to establish that outpost on the top of the hill, you
would not even be able to get supplies to it."

Actions in October

When one journalist said that "major terrorist actions take place in October,"
General Igsiz observed: "The month of October is a period in which the terrorist
organization is making its preparations for the winter. Thereafter, in the
winter, they will take refuge somewhere. Consequently, they want to conduct some
action that will make their voices heard before winter starts."

In reply to a question, General Igsiz, stating that holidays and vacation days
in border units are no different from other days, said that not even television
is allowed in base regions "so as not to disturb the concentration."

General Staff Deputy Chief General Hasan Igsiz noted that the TSK conducts
assessments of all of its activities, whether positive or negative.

The press briefing meeting in the General Staff Headquarters began at 2:00 p.m.
and lasted for approximately an hour and 45 minutes.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in Turkish 1527 gmt 5 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 6, 2008 Monday

French president condemns terrorist attack in Turkey

LENGTH: 80 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

ANKARA (A.A) -French President Nicolas Sarkozy sent messages to Turkish
President Abdullah Gul and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan following the
recent terrorist attack on a Turkish outpost in south-eastern province of
Hakkari.

In his message sent on Monday, Sarkozy cursed the terrorist attack and expressed
France's solidarity with Turkey.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1406 gmt 6 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            October 6, 2008, Monday

AMY PANIC ATTACK TERROR;
EXCLUSIVE X FACTOR SCOT TELLS OF HER TV ORDEAL .. AND RUNS RULE OVER 12 WHO WILL
BATTLE IT OUT FOR GLORY

BYLINE: By John Dingwall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1158 words


DEVASTATED teenager Amy Connelly suffered a panic attack after being told she
hadn't made the X Factor final 12.

The 19-year-old was distraught when judge Cheryl Cole broke the news that she
hadn't made it.

She collapsed in tears - then found herself struggling to breathe.

Amy said: "When Cheryl sat me down and told me I wasn't through, I was
absolutely devastated.

"I was crying when I was with her, then when I came off I cried so much I
couldn't breathe.

"I had a panic attack and I had to be calmed down."

Amy's ordeal was cut from the show because the producers deemed it too painful
for family viewing.

On Saturday night, viewers saw Amy forgetting the words of Gabriella Cilmi's
Sweet About Me as she sang in front of Cheryl in Cannes.

Amy, whose Scots mum Rosemarie died when she was six, said Cheryl later admitted
she had chosen the wrong song for her.

But the teenager doesn't blame anyone but herself. She added: "I did so badly on
the show. What you saw on X Factor was better than reality because I really
messed up and they didn't show too much of that.

"The pressure was too much. There were no acoustics because we were singing in
the open air."

Amy, who lives in Watford with her Scots dad David, added: "I'm kicking myself
that I'm not through. I let myself down."

Amy spent last week in Scotland, catching up with her family.

The Volvo customer services rep relaxed in Cadder, Dunbartonshire, yesterday
with relatives.

She said: "I'm here meeting my baby nephew Christopher.

"On Friday, I visited my sister Diane's twins Chloe and Carla who were
celebrating their second birthday."

Last night, viewers saw the four judges announce which 12 acts have made it
through to the X Factor live finals.

Here, Amy gives her opinion of the contenders - and who she thinks will win.

14-24 BOYS MENTORED BY SIMON COWELL

AUSTIN DRAGE

The 21-year old, from Essex, had roles in Snatch, The Bill and Casualty. As part
of a boyband called Five Boys, he supported Lemar, Westlife, Shola Ama, Girls
Aloud and Blazing Squad. The band split and Austin auditioned for McFly but was
told he was too ugly. Austin also took part in Boys will be Girls E4 TV show.

AMY'S VERDICT: "He's cool. When I saw him I thought I knew him from somewhere
and it turns out he has been on TV before. He's very down to earth And will talk
to anybody. You can see he loves his music which is great in my eyes."

EOGHAN QUIGG

Eoghan, who is 16, grew up in Derry, Northern Ireland, and is studying for his
GCSEs. He lives at home with his two younger brothers and his parents who are
really supportive of his dream and believe he has got The X Factor.

AMY'S VERDICT: "You bond with the people in the same category but he would
always sit next to you and is such a lovely boy. He needs to bring out a little
more personality I think."

SCOTT BRUTON

Scott, 19, was born in Manchester and had been working as a Bluecoat since
January this year but has packed it in to pursue his life-long ambition.

AMY'S VERDICT: "I shared a hotel with him. There are so many talented people
this year. I think a band or Alexandra will win it rather than him."

OVER 25s MENTORED BY DANNII MINOGUE

DANIEL EVANS

Daniel Evans, 38, from Essex, reduced Cheryl to tears in the audition stage when
he told of his wife's death last year, shortly after the birth of their daughter
Ana Maria, now 15 months old.

AMY'S VERDICT: "He is such a down-to-earth bloke. When we were in the three
rooms at boot camp and got told yes or no, he started crying and I was like,
'Don't do this to me'."

RACHEL HYLTON

Londoner Rachel, 26, had the first of her five children when she was just 13.
Problems with drugs led to a spell in prison and eventually three of her
children were taken into care. After the birth of her fourth child, she was
determined to change her life for the better and now looks after her youngest
two children.

AMY'S VERDICT: "She looked after everyone in boot camp and was like mother hen.
Her personality is feisty and nobody can change that, except her. I think it
will be a challenge for her and for Dannii."

RUTH LORENZO

Ruth, 25, from Spain, dates a rock guitarist called Juanma. The duo landed a
permanent contract for Polaris World where Ruth works as a PR consultant and
Juanma is the director of entertainments.

AMY'S VERDICT: "She was another mother figure but was very nice. But because a
group hasn't won it, I think that JLS would win over her if it isn't Alexandra."

GROUPS MENTORED BY LOUIS WALSH

BAD LASHES

Stacey Lincoln, 20, Emily McNamee, 19, and Sam Bennett, 21, are from Durham, and
Sophie Wilson, 23, from Hartlepool.

Retail assistant Stacey auditioned for X Factor when she was 16 but was told she
was too young.

Emily, who runs a coffee shop with her mum, auditioned two years ago.

AMY'S VERDICT: "They are amazing girls. I bonded with Sam. They are all really
good singers."

GIRLBAND

Tita Lau, 19, Marisa Billitteri, 19, and Phoebe Jay Lau are from Bristol and
Layla Manoochehri, 22, is from Birmingham.

Tita supported Blue in her previous group Glitzzi Girls, while Layla co-wrote a
song for Lisa Stansfield and recorded a rock album in Gemany. She also supported
Blue.

AMY'S VERDICT: "I haven't a bad word to say about them but there will only be
room for one girl group ."

JLS

Marvin Humes, 23, Jonathan Gill, 21, Oritse Williams, 21, and Aston Merrygold,
20.

Aston has been singing since he was a child. After finishing school in 2004, he
was cast in a TV show called Fun Song Factory.

Aston met Marvin while auditioning for a TV advert and he was invited to come
along and try out for JLS.

A former protege of Blue's Simon Webbe, Marvin was in the band VS.

AMY'S VERDICT: "They are really nice boys. I would like them or Alexandra to win
it."

14-24 GIRLS MENTORED BY CHERYL COLE

LAURA WHITE

Born in Manchester, Laura, 17, started singing in jazz bars two years ago. She
recently won a radio competition where she got the chance to sing in front of an
audience of 15,000 people when Peter Kay switched on the Bolton Christmas
lights. Laura is studying creative writing at university.

AMY'S VERDICT: "She has a uniqueness about her and is a sweet girl. There's a
bit of Amy Winehouse in there but she made the songs in boot camp her own."

DIANA VICKERS

Lancashire girl Diana Vickers, 17, is studying theatre studies, classics and
psychology and her plan is to go to drama school to study musical theatre.

AMY'S VERDICT: "She has a unique voice as well and she has the fact that she is
such a pretty girl on her side."

ALEXANDRA BURKE

Alexandra, 20, has four brothers and a sister and lives with her ex-Soul to Soul
singer mum in north London. When she was 12, Alexandra entered Star for a Night.
She was the youngest person in the competition and was beaten to first place by
Joss Stone.

AMY'S VERDICT: "I think she will win. If it is not her, it will be JLS. She is
amazing and her voice is amazing. At boot camp, we got really friendly and I was
sharing a room with Alexandra at Cannes and it would be great if she were to
win."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOPES: Cowell and the boys
CONTENDERS: The over-25 hopefuls
GUTTED: Amy Connelly

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 7, 2008 Tuesday

Algerian municipal guard headquarters targeted in terrorist attack - paper

LENGTH: 412 words


Text of report by H. Azzouzi headlined "Timizart (Tizi Ouzou): Attack on the
Municipal Guard headquarters", published by privately-owned Algerian newspaper
El Watan website on 5 October

During the evening this past Friday [3 October], the new headquarters of the
municipal guard of Timizart, 42 km to the east of the main town in the province
of Tizi Ouzou, was targeted by a bomb attack. The blast from the explosive
device, according to matching accounts, occurred at about 2100 hours and
seriously shook the walls of that building.

If the brigade's enclosure wall was spared by the explosion, the fact
nevertheless remains that the ground floor was completely devastated. At the
scene we found city hall workers in the process of clearing the courtyard of the
debris caused by the attack. An official from the Municipal People's Assembly
[APC] indicated to us that the building that had been targeted by the terrorist
groups was going to be put to use at the start of next year at the latest, with
the ribbon cutting of the urban security agency, whose headquarters is
completed. If the same source is to be believed, the cost of building the new
municipal guard headquarters has risen to more than 700 million centimes.

Let us note that currently it is the APC's old shacks that house the barracks of
Timizart's municipal police. Moreover, this attack was reportedly the work of
the terrorist groups that reign supreme in the region's forest. The headquarters
of the municipal guard that was attacked is located three kilometres to the
south of the municipality's main town, close to the Berber village, on an
intercity road that links the community to National Road [RN] 72. By way of a
reminder, it was there, last Monday, in broad daylight, that a group of armed
individuals threw up a bogus roadblock at which a bus driver was relieved of his
vehicle.

That vehicle was reportedly used by elements from the Salafi Group for Call and
Combat [GSPC; the group now known as Al-Qa'idah in the Lands of the Islamic
Maghreb, or AQLIM] in the suicide attack that was perpetrated last Monday on a
military post in Tagdempt, in the Dellys region. Too it would be useful to
remind readers of the abduction, 12 days ago, of a veterinarian who was abducted
by an armed group in the village of Imessounen, in the municipality of Iflissen,
this still on the northeast slope of the province of Tizi Ouzou. He was released
one week later.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 5 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                           October 8, 2008 Wednesday

Cambridge doctors in court over terror attacks

LENGTH: 640 words


PROSECUTORS believe two doctors with links to Cambridge who are accused of
mounting car bomb attacks in London and Glasgow were motivated by Islam, a court
heard today.Bilal Abdulla, 29, and Mohammed Asha, 28, are accused of terrorism
motivated by "a fundamental form of Islam", potential jurors were told.Abdullah
lived in Cambridge for a time and attended the mosque in Mawson Road while Asha
completed a two month placement at Addenbrooke's Hospital in 2005.Speaking at
Woolwich Crown Court, Mr Justice Mackay said jurors must try the men on the
facts alone and not on any prejudices, beliefs or personal opinions.He said the
men are charged with conspiring to murder and cause explosions in attacks on
London's West End and Glasgow Airport over two days last summer.Abdulla, of
Glasgow, and Asha, of Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire, deny the offences.The
judge said: "The prosecution case is that both these defendants and a third man
called Kafeel Ahmed, who died in the third of these incidents, were terrorists
motivated by their belief in a fundamental form of Islam."It is essential that
the jury that is to try them makes its decisions based solely on the evidence it
hears and it is given in this court and not based on any prejudices, beliefs or
personal opinions the members of the jury may have."Mr Justice Mackay was
addressing potential jurors before the case begins tomorrow.

It is expected to last between eight and 10 weeks.Members of the public selected
for jury service were told the two defendants worked as doctors at several NHS
hospitals.They were told Abdulla worked at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in
Paisley, outside Glasgow.Asha worked at Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge;
Prince Philip Hospital, Llanelli; Royal Shrewsbury Hospital and the University
Hospital of North Staffordshire.Potential jurors were told they may not be able
to serve if they or a close relative had been treated by either of the doctors
or if they knew any of the witnesses in the case.They were also asked if they
had been the victim of a terrorist attack or worked for the police, Crown
Prosecution Service, Prison Service, Armed Forces or security services.The judge
said: "In this case the two defendants that you see in the dock are charged with
taking part in a conspiracy to murder and cause explosions with the intent of
endangering life."It is the prosecution's case that, as a result of this
conspiracy, two attempts were made in June of last year to explode car bombs in
the West End of London which, happily, were not successful."On the following day
there was an unsuccessful attempt to mount a suicide bomb attack on Glasgow
Airport."These are obviously very serious charges and both defendants deny
them."It will be the task of the jury which is now to be chosen from among your
number to decide whether these charges or any of them are proved."It is an
important task and a serious task but I also believe that those of you that are
selected will find it an interesting case to try."Iraqi-born Abdulla was
arrested after a burning Jeep was driven into the main terminal building at
Glasgow Airport on June 30 last year.Jordanian Asha, a neurologist, was arrested
on the M6 motorway in Cheshire later that day.Ahmed, 28, died 33 days later from
critical burns suffered in the airport attack. He was the driver of the
vehicle.In the early hours of June 29, two Mercedes cars containing petrol, gas
cylinders and nails were driven into London's West End.One was discovered
outside the Tiger, Tiger nightclub in Haymarket, causing hundreds of revellers
to be evacuated.The second car, parked in adjoining Cockspur Street, was towed
to a nearby car pound. It was made safe later that day.Both men are accused of
conspiring with Ahmed and others unknown to murder and cause explosions between
January 1, 2006 and July 1, 2007.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2008 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 9, 2008 Thursday

Turkey: "At least two terrorists" detained in police bus attack case

LENGTH: 112 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Diyarbakir, 9 October: At least two terrorists who were responsible for the
attack on a police bus in the southeastern Turkish province of Diyarbakir have
been captured.

A full-scale operation was launched after yesterday's attack. During the
operation, security forces arrested at least two terrorists who staged the
attack.

They were taken to the provincial department of security for questioning.

Five people, including four police officers, were killed and 18 people were
injured in the attack on a police bus on Wednesday [9 October].

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1053 gmt 9 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 9, 2008 Thursday

Third "terrorist" detained over yesterday's attack in Turkish province

LENGTH: 115 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["NUMBER OF TERRORISTS CAPTURED IN DIYARBAKIR RISES TO THREE" - AA headline]

DIYARBAKIR (A.A) - 09.10.2008 - Three terrorists, who were responsible for the
attack on a police bus in the southeastern Turkish province of Diyarbakir, have
been captured.

It was revealed that four terrorists staged yesterday's attack in which five
people including four police officers were killed and 18 people were injured.

The terrorists were taken to the provincial department of security for
questioning.

A full-scale operation is under way to capture the fourth terrorist.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1122 gmt 9 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     October 9, 2008 Thursday 09:26 AM GMT

Pakistan: Suicide bomb attack on anti-terror police

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 178 words


At least nine people were injured when an explosives-laden vehicle rammed into
an anti-terrorist squad building in the Pakistani capital today.

Islamabad police official Mohammed Sadiq said: "It seems to be a suicide
attack."

The attack occurred as politicians gathered at parliament for a closed-door
security briefing.

The capital has been under tight security because of the private session, and it
was unclear how the attacker might have struck the building in the Police Lines
neighbourhood of the city.

Ambulances streamed into the smoke-filled area. The red-brick building's facade
was destroyed and a staircase collapsed. Shoes were strewn among the rubble.

Police officer Suhail Iqbal said the building housed an anti-terror squad and
that it was inside a heavily-guarded police complex.

Pakistan has experienced a wave of militant violence in recent months. Much of
it has been in the north west regions bordering Afghanistan, but the insurgents
have shown they can reach further.

On September 20, a suicide truck bombing of the Marriott Hotel killed 54 in the
city.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                           October 9, 2008, Thursday

AIRPORT TERROR ATTACK: TWO GO ON TRIAL;
PLOT SUSPECTS IN DOCK

BYLINE: By Adrian Brodie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 470 words


THE trial of two doctors allegedly involved in the Glasgow Airport bomb plot
will begin today.

Bilal Abdullah, 29, and Mohammad Asha, 28, are accused of conspiracy to murder
and conspiracy to cause explosions likely to endanger life.

They were allegedly involved in an Islamic extremist plot to cause car blasts in
London and mount a suicide bomb attack on Glasgow Airport in June last year.

Eighteen prospective jurors were yesterday selected at London's Woolwich Crown
Court - and 12 of them will be sworn in today at the start of the trial, which
is expected to last up to 10 weeks.

Two bombs were planted in Mercedes cars on June 29 in Cockspur Street off
London's Trafalgar Square and outside the Tiger Tiger club in nearby Haymarket -
but they failed to go off.

The following day, a Jeep Cherokee loaded with explosives was driven straight
into the terminal building of Glasgow airport and one man in the vehicle, Kafeel
Ahmed, died of burns.

Yesterday, the trial judge, Mr Justice Mackay, told potential jurors: "In this
case, the two defendants are charged with taking part in a conspiracy to murder
and cause explosions with the intent to endanger life.

"It is the prosecution's case that, as a result of this conspiracy, two attempts
were made to explode car bombs in the West End of London which happily were not
successful and, on the following day, there was an unsuccessful attempt to mount
a suicide bomb attack on Glasgow airport.

"These are very serious charges and the defendants deny them. It will be the
task of the jury to decide whether these charges are proved.

"It is an important task and a serious one but I also believe that those who are
selected will find it an interesting case to try.

"It is the prosecution's case that both of these defendants and a third, Kafeel
Ahmed, who died, were terrorists motivated by their belief in a fundamental form
of Islam.

"It is essential that the jury makes its decision solely on the evidence it
hears and sees in this court and not based on any prejudices, beliefs or
personal opinions that members of the jury may have."

The judge set the panel five questions to check their impartiality. One asked if
a relative or close friend had ever been in the vicinity of an alleged terrorist
incident.

They were told both defendants were doctors and that Abdullah worked at the
Royal Alexandra hospital in Paisley, Renfrewshire.

Jurors were also told that Asha worked at the University hospital, North
Staffordshire, and had previously worked at Addenbrooke's hospital, Cambridge
and the Prince Philip hospital in Llannelli.

They were told that Ahmed lived in Cambridge but was not a doctor and his
brother Sabeel lived in Liverpool and worked at Warrington hospital.

Abdulla and Asha deny both charges and the case continues.

'Motivated by belief in fundamental form of Islam'

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NIGHTMARE: The horrific scene after a Jeep Cherokee was driven into the
airport termnal doors last year
DEAD: Kafeel Ahmed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                      October 9, 2008 Thursday 3:15 PM BST

DOCTORS 'PLOTTED TO KILL HUNDREDS IN TERROR ATTACK'

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 378 words


Two doctors plotted to kill hundreds in a wave of car bombings across Britain,
including one in London's West End, a court has been told.

Iraqi Bilal Abdulla, 28, and Jordanian Mohammed Asha, 29, were respected doctors
at hospitals in Glasgow and Staffordshire - but prosecutors said the pair were
secretly members of a small cell of Islamic terrorists.

They turned their attention from treating illnesses to planning ``indiscriminate
and wholesale'' murder, London's Woolwich Crown Court heard.

Prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw QC said only ``good fortune'' saved people from
attacks on London's West End and Glasgow Airport. He said the men wanted people
to be ``gripped by fear'' as they were in the wake of attacks on the London
transport network in July 2005.

Mr Laidlaw said the plotters had access to extra bomb materials and at least two
more vehicles for further attacks. It was claimed they conspired with a third
man, Kafeel Ahmed, 28, who died in the suicide attack on Glasgow Airport.

The court was told the men shared the same extremist ideologies as other Islamic
terrorists who have struck in Britain and overseas and were motivated by what
they saw as the persecution of Muslims in Iraq, Palestine and Afghanistan.

Abdulla worked at the Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley, and Asha worked at the
University Hospital of North Staffordshire.

The court was told how Abdulla and Ahmed drove two Mercedes cars, packed with
gas cylinders, petrol and nails, from a property in Paisley to London on June 29
last year. One vehicle was left outside the busy Tiger Tiger nightclub in
Haymarket, near Piccadilly Circus, with a second vehicle at a nearby bus stop.

The court heard the second car might have been deliberately placed in the path
of those evacuated from the first blast. But the improvised bombs failed to
detonate, and the devices were made safe. The prosecution said that this led to
a ``dramatic change in tactics'' with the attack on Glasgow Airport following as
police closed in.

Abdulla, from Glasgow, was arrested after a burning Jeep was driven into the
main terminal building at Glasgow Airport on June 30 last year. Asha, a
neurologist from Newcastle-under-Lyme, was arrested on the M6 motorway in
Cheshire later that day. Both men deny all the charges. end

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Thurrock Gazette

                            October 9, 2008 Thursday

Court hears of woman's terror sex attack on train

SECTION: THURROCK NEWS (THURROCK NEWS)

LENGTH: 319  words


A YOUNG woman told how two teenagers took turns to sexually attack her as she
travelled home on a train.

The jury at Basildon Crown Court today listened to the video interview in which
the 17-year-old alleged victim told described how the rape place as she
travelled on a train from Southend to Grays.

She said a group of four boys also got on the train and one of them, 16-year-old
youth, recognised her and hurled insults at her, calling her a "slut" and a
"slag," before a 17-year-old youth groped her breasts and asked her to perform
oral sex on him.

The teenager said she moved carriage three times to escape from her alleged
attackers, who both pestered her for oral sex, and at one point the youngest
defendant slapped her across the f ace several times and told her: "Go and kill
yourself. You are worth nothing. I will give you a knife to slit your throat."

She said she was so afraid she decided to briefly give in to their demands
because she thought it was the only way they would leave her alone.

She said: "I was getting really paranoid and nervous in case they were going to
do anything worse."

The alleged victim said the 16-year-old boy, who pulled his trousers and
underwear down, forced her to perform oral sex on him.

His alleged accomplice, who also bit her breast, took his turn before the
youngest youth raped her a second time.

Her alleged ordeal was not yet over as she told how a third youth passed the
16-year-old defendant a fire extinguisher and he "drenched" her with it before
throwing it at her.

And she claims when he saw police on the platform as the train pulled into Grays
station, he warned her: "If you grass me up I know where you live. I will come
and get you."

The defendants, who both live in Grays, deny raping and sexually touching the
young woman without consent on November 4 last year.

The alleged victim and the defendants cannot be named for legal reasons.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            October 10, 2008 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

ZAC ATTACK;
High School hunk's crowd terror

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 278 words


HIGH School Musical hunk Zac Efron was left badly shaken after a fan lunged at
him in the street.

The incident happened as he strolled in London with his girlfriend Vanessa
Hudgens.

A bespectacled man tried to grab Zac, 20. But he was quickly pounced on by
security guards and hauled away.

A witness said: "It was pretty scary. No-one knew who this guy was or what he
might do. You hear of all sorts of attacks on stars.

"Zac was just walking past when he started ranting at him, then lunged forward
pointing at him and tried to grab his hair. It was bizarre.

"Zac looked pretty startled and shaken. Fortunately his bodyguards were there,
or God knows what might have happened." The incident happened as Zac and
Vanessa, 19, left the Apollo theatre in Shaftesbury Avenue, where they had been
to see Josh Hartnett, 30, in the stage version ofRainman. The couple are in
London for the premiere of the third HSM film, in which Zac plays singing
basketball star Troy and Vanessa appears as his love interest, Gabriella.

They were later spotted eating at Floridita restaurant with costars including
Ashley Tisdale, 23, and Corbin Bleu, 19.

An onlooker said: "Zac was quite relaxed and he looked like he was enjoying
himself.

"Some of them were dancing to salsa music, so they must have put the scuffle out
of their minds."

A source close to the star said last night: "He's OK.

He wasn't in danger, but he is glad his people were around to step in.

"He won't let it tarnish his view of London. He's really enjoyed himself here
this week." Yesterday we told how Zac was breaking the hearts of fans across the
world by making this third film in the series' entitled Senior Year, his last.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MOMENT OF TERROR: The man lunges at Zac as he strolls with Vanessa, but
is soon grabbed by security guards, below

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                            October 10, 2008 Friday

Men leave trail of terror after shocking East Marsh attacks

BYLINE:  jenna thompson

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 408 words


Help get these people off our streets.

That is the plea from police and ward councillors after two men left a trail of
terror on Grimsby's East Marsh.

In a shocking series of incidents, the men attacked four people over a two-hour
period - leaving one with a punctured lung and head injuries.

Today, detectives investigating the incident have launched an urgent appeal for
witnesses to help solve the crime.

The men went on their violent rampage last Thursday, although details were only
released yesterday.

First, at around 6pm, they attacked a man who was walking his dog along Werneth
Road, knocking him to the ground before repeatedly kicking and punching him.

After he managed to drag himself up, they continued the assault, knocking him to
the floor again.

At this point, the driver of a black car which was passing went to get out, but
his door was kicked by one of the attackers and he drove away. Police are
particularly keen to speak to this witness.

The men then continued to attack the man while he laid on the floor before
leaving with his Norwegian Elk Hound, which was later recovered.

He was left suffering from a punctured lung and required numerous stitches to
his head.

A short time later, the men - who were reported to have a large amount of blood
on their clothes -  approached a 20-year-old woman and a 31-year-old man on
Victor Street and began to assault them.

The woman fled into the nearby home of a relative, but was followed by the men
who forced their way in and attacked her.

At around 7.30pm, one of the attackers - now shirtless - approached a car that
was travelling on Oxford Street. When the driver got out, there was an
altercation between them before the second man joined in the attack on the
driver.

Detective Chief Inspector Lauren Poultney said : "This was a very serious set of
incidents which seem to have involved the same two men and these aren't the sort
of people we want running around our streets.

"It is vital that anyone who may have witnessed any of the three incidents or
may be able to assist detectives in identifying the men responsible make contact
with police as any information, no matter how small it may seem, could be the
key to the investigation."

Two men, aged 20 and 21, have been arrested and released on bail pending further
inquiries.

Contact police on 0845 6060222, quoting log 482 for the Werneth Road incident,
484 for Victor Street, and 539 for Oxford Street, or Crimestoppers on 0800
555111.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 85


                    Copyright 2008 Grimsby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                            October 10, 2008 Friday

Men leave trail of terror after shocking East Marsh attacks

BYLINE: jenna thompson

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 408 words


Help get these people off our streets.

That is the plea from police and ward councillors after two men left a trail of
terror on Grimsby's East Marsh.

In a shocking series of incidents, the men attacked four people over a two-hour
period - leaving one with a punctured lung and head injuries.

Today, detectives investigating the incident have launched an urgent appeal for
witnesses to help solve the crime.

The men went on their violent rampage last Thursday, although details were only
released yesterday.

First, at around 6pm, they attacked a man who was walking his dog along Werneth
Road, knocking him to the ground before repeatedly kicking and punching him.

After he managed to drag himself up, they continued the assault, knocking him to
the floor again.

At this point, the driver of a black car which was passing went to get out, but
his door was kicked by one of the attackers and he drove away. Police are
particularly keen to speak to this witness.

The men then continued to attack the man while he laid on the floor before
leaving with his Norwegian Elk Hound, which was later recovered.

He was left suffering from a punctured lung and required numerous stitches to
his head.

A short time later, the men - who were reported to have a large amount of blood
on their clothes -  approached a 20-year-old woman and a 31-year-old man on
Victor Street and began to assault them.

The woman fled into the nearby home of a relative, but was followed by the men
who forced their way in and attacked her.

At around 7.30pm, one of the attackers - now shirtless - approached a car that
was travelling on Oxford Street. When the driver got out, there was an
altercation between them before the second man joined in the attack on the
driver.

Detective Chief Inspector Lauren Poultney said : "This was a very serious set of
incidents which seem to have involved the same two men and these aren't the sort
of people we want running around our streets.

"It is vital that anyone who may have witnessed any of the three incidents or
may be able to assist detectives in identifying the men responsible make contact
with police as any information, no matter how small it may seem, could be the
key to the investigation."

Two men, aged 20 and 21, have been arrested and released on bail pending further
inquiries.

Contact police on 0845 6060222, quoting log 482 for the Werneth Road incident,
484 for Victor Street, and 539 for Oxford Street, or Crimestoppers on 0800
555111.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 85


                    Copyright 2008 Grimsby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Grimsby Telegraph

                            October 10, 2008 Friday

Men leave trail of terror after shocking East Marsh attacks

BYLINE: jenna thompson

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 408 words


Help get these people off our streets.

That is the plea from police and ward councillors after two men left a trail of
terror on Grimsby's East Marsh.

In a shocking series of incidents, the men attacked four people over a two-hour
period - leaving one with a punctured lung and head injuries.

Today, detectives investigating the incident have launched an urgent appeal for
witnesses to help solve the crime.

The men went on their violent rampage last Thursday, although details were only
released yesterday.

First, at around 6pm, they attacked a man who was walking his dog along Werneth
Road, knocking him to the ground before repeatedly kicking and punching him.

After he managed to drag himself up, they continued the assault, knocking him to
the floor again.

At this point, the driver of a black car which was passing went to get out, but
his door was kicked by one of the attackers and he drove away. Police are
particularly keen to speak to this witness.

The men then continued to attack the man while he laid on the floor before
leaving with his Norwegian Elk Hound, which was later recovered.

He was left suffering from a punctured lung and required numerous stitches to
his head.

A short time later, the men - who were reported to have a large amount of blood
on their clothes -  approached a 20-year-old woman and a 31-year-old man on
Victor Street and began to assault them.

The woman fled into the nearby home of a relative, but was followed by the men
who forced their way in and attacked her.

At around 7.30pm, one of the attackers - now shirtless - approached a car that
was travelling on Oxford Street. When the driver got out, there was an
altercation between them before the second man joined in the attack on the
driver.

Detective Chief Inspector Lauren Poultney said : "This was a very serious set of
incidents which seem to have involved the same two men and these aren't the sort
of people we want running around our streets.

"It is vital that anyone who may have witnessed any of the three incidents or
may be able to assist detectives in identifying the men responsible make contact
with police as any information, no matter how small it may seem, could be the
key to the investigation."

Two men, aged 20 and 21, have been arrested and released on bail pending further
inquiries.

Contact police on 0845 6060222, quoting log 482 for the Werneth Road incident,
484 for Victor Street, and 539 for Oxford Street, or Crimestoppers on 0800
555111.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 85


                    Copyright 2008 Grimsby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 10, 2008 Friday

National: Doctors accused of car bomb terror attacks planned indiscriminate and
wholesale murder, court told: Pair deny plot over attacks in London and Glasgow:
More 'spectaculars' were planned, jury hears

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 800 words


Two doctors who launched car bomb attacks on London and Glasgow were planning a
terrorist campaign designed to bring "indiscriminate and wholesale" murder to
the UK, a court heard yesterday

Bilal Abdulla, 29, and Mohammed Asha, 27, are accused of plotting to detonate
two cars packed with nails and explosives near a busy nightclub in central
London in June last year and, a day later, launching a suicide attack at Glasgow
airport.

Yesterday a jury at Woolwich crown court heard the pair, who deny conspiracy to
murder, had been planning further "spectaculars" and had bought at least two
more cars and a stockpile of explosives and bomb-making equipment.

"These men were intent on committing murder on an indiscriminate and a wholesale
level," said Jonathan Laidlaw QC, prosecuting. "Those bombs were to have been
the first in a series of similar attacks to be launched elsewhere in the UK."

The court heard the men only decided to launch a suicide attack at Glasgow
airport after the first wave of bombs failed to go off in central London. "The
cars had not been destroyed so the clues as to their identity were there to be
discovered and they knew that the police and intelligence services would be
quickly after them," said Laidlaw.

The jury was told that Abdulla, from Iraq, and Asha, from Jordan, were members
of a small Islamic terrorist cell and had hoped their campaign would leave the
public "gripped by fear".

Laidlaw said the pair - along with a third man, Kafeel Ahmed, who died from
injuries he received in the attack on Glasgow airport - had been planning the
campaign for six months. He said they had been on a reconnaissance trip to
London in May last year when they spent time in the City of London and around
the Old Bailey as well as in the West End.

Police had known nothing of the defendants' plans until the failed bombings,
Laidlaw said. One of the most "extraordinary things" about the case was that
Asha and Abdulla were doctors.

"Who would have suspected two doctors to have been involved in such planning?
Having studied at universities in their homelands they sought and obtained work
in British hospitals to complete their medical training.

"While here they turned their attention away from the treating of illness to the
planning of murder."

Laidlaw told the jury the men had planned the attacks as a "punishment brought
to bear on the British people for what (they) see as our country's part in the
persecution of the Muslim community all over the world but particularly
Palestine and, of course, Iraq and Afghanistan".

The court heard that in the first attack, in the early hours of June 29 last
year, Abdulla parked a green Mercedes car packed with gas canisters, petrol and
nails outside the Tiger Tiger nightclub in Haymarket in London's West End.

The second car, a blue Mercedes, was parked near a busy bus stop in nearby
Cockspur Street. The prosecution said it could have been positioned to catch
those fleeing the first explosion.

However, despite repeated attempts both cars failed to explode as there was not
enough oxygen for the petrol and gas to ignite.

The court heard that there were more than 500 customers in the club at the time
and Laidlaw said it was "no more than good fortune that nobody died". He added:
"Had it been executed in the way intended it would have resulted in the loss of
many lives particularly among the young seeking entertainment in the area or on
their way home after a night out."

The next day, Saturday June 30, the busiest day of the year at Glasgow airport,
the court heard Ahmed drove a Jeep packed with gas canisters into the doors of
the terminal building.

Abdulla was in the passenger seat and the court heard both men threw down petrol
bombs in an effort to ensure the vehicle exploded.

"Again fortune intervened to save those inside the terminal," said Laidlaw. "The
Jeep became trapped in the terminal doors and despite the best efforts of the
bombers, and although there was a fierce fire, the jeep did not explode."

Abdullah, who at the time worked as a diabetes specialist at the Royal Alexandra
hospital in Paisley, was arrested after the failed attack at Glasgow airport.
The court heard there was a "formidable body of evidence" against him.

Laidlaw said his proposed defence, that although he planned to carry out a
bombing campaign he did not intend to kill or injury anybody, was "ludicrous".

Asha, a neurologist who had been employed at Addenbrookes hospital in Cambridge,
was arrested on the M6 motorway later the same day.

Laidlaw said that although Asha's role was "less obvious and visible", he had
provided spiritual and financial support to the plan and had been in regular
contact with the bombers.

Abdulla and Asha deny conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause explosions
likely to endanger life. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            October 10, 2008 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

Doctors 'plotted terrorist bomb attacks'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 267 words


TWO foreign doctors planned car bomb attacks across Britain, a court heard.

Iraqi Bilal Abdulla, 28, and Jordanian Mohammed Asha, 29, travelled to Britain
to further their careers in medicine at university and NHS hospitals.

But prosecutors said the pair were secretly members of an Islamic terrorist cell
who wanted to plunge the nation back into the terror of July 2005.

Woolwich Crown Court was told the men turned their attention from treating
illnesses to planning a series of devastating car bombs.

They used their intelligence and academic knowledge to conceal their tracks as
they spent six months buying vehicles, renting a property and preparing the
bombs, the court heard.

Prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw QC said the men had access to extra bombmaterials,
including mobile phone detonators, and at least two more vehicles for further
attacks.

He said only "good fortune" saved hundreds of late-night revellers when two
Mercedes cars packed full of fuel, gas canisters and nails were left in
London'sWest End on June 29 last year.

The cars failed to detonate leaving Abdulla and a third conspirator, Kafeel
Ahmed, 28, on the run.

The next day the two men drove a four-wheel drive, also prepared as an
improvised bomb, into the main terminal building at Glasgow Airport on its
busiest day of the year.

Explosives failed to detonate, leaving Ahmed with fatal burns. Abdulla was
arrested.

Mr Laidlaw said: "No warnings were to be given and the cars were to be
positioned in busy urban areas.

"In short, these men were intent on committing murder on an indiscriminate and a
wholesale scale."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 11, 2008 Saturday

Pakistan Foreign Office spokesman says US missile attacks "helping" terrorists

LENGTH: 879 words


Text of report by staff correspondent headlined "US missile strikes helping
terrorists: FO" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 11 October

Islamabad: US missile attacks on suspected militants in Pakistan are
destabilising the country and "helping the terrorists", the Foreign Office said
Friday. "We want them (the United States) to realise that these attacks are
destabilising the situation, and they are not helping them or Pakistan," Foreign
Office Spokesman Mohammed Sadiq told this agency. "They are helping the
terrorists."

APP adds: Meanwhile, commenting on reports at the weekly press briefing here
Friday that India was violating the Indus Basin Water Treaty by curtailing the
flow of water in Chenab River the spokesman said, "We are seriously concerned
over significant reduction in flow of water in Chenab River."

He said it has caused extensive damage to Pakistan's agriculture and the Indian
action is a clear violation of Indus Waters Treaty. Pakistan was prompt to take
cognizance of the issue both at the Indus Water Commission level and diplomatic
level.

He said the reduction in flow was protested by Pakistan commissioner with his
Indian counterpart through various letters and telephone calls. He said the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also conveyed Pakistan's concern to the Indian
government through a note verbal on September 5 with the request to restore full
supply to Pakistan.

The spokesman said the matter was also raised by the foreign secretary with the
Indian high commissioner in Islamabad on September 4 and by the Pakistan high
commissioner with the Indian foreign secretary in New Delhi on September 12. He
said the Indian deputy high commissioner in Islamabad was called in on September
13 to convey Pakistan's concerns and request the Government of India for
immediate remedial action.

The spokesman said in response to Pakistan's demarches, the Indian commissioner
for Indus Water Commission has invited Indus Water Commissioner to inspect the
Baglihar Dam. The visit is expected to take place from October 18.

"We were assured that Indian government will take steps necessary to rectify the
situation. Our efforts, however, will continue and intensify till the issue is
resolved," he added. The spokesman said Pakistan desires mutually beneficial and
harmonious cooperative relationship with India.

"We are committed to a serious, sustained and constructive engagement with India
and early and full normalisation of relations on the basis of mutual respect,
peaceful coexistence and non-interference," said the spokesman.

Replying to a question, the spokesman said, he had no knowledge about the
progress on back channel diplomacy on Pak-India relations as the Foreign Office
always involved in front channel diplomacy.

"Pakistan is committed to expanding bilateral trade with India and we are also
ready for liberalisation of visa regime," he added. The spokesman said Pakistan
supports the right of the Kashmiri people to determine their destiny.

"We are committed to promoting intra-Kashmir interactions including cross-LoC
trade," he said. The spokesman said Pakistan would also like to make early
progress in resolving Sir Creek and Siachen disputes.

Replying to a question about civilian trekking expedition to Siachen by India,
the spokesman said Siachen glacier, occupied by India in 1984 in violation of
the bilateral agreements, is on the agenda of the Composite Dialogue between
Pakistan and India. He said its final status is yet to be determined, as agreed
upon by the parties.

Pakistan has taken up the matter with India expressing concern over the weeklong
trekking expedition, he added. The spokesman said Pakistan had also conveyed its
objection to the organizing of a similar trekking expedition last year.

He said Pakistan also called upon the Indian side to desist from acts that cast
shadow on the peace process between Pakistan and India. Regarding Dr Aafia
Siddiqui, the spokesman said she would be released very soon as the Pakistan
Government has been making sincere efforts in this regard.

He said a Senate delegation led by Senator Mushahid Hussain Sayed, Chairman of
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was currently visiting US and had met Dr
Aafia. However, the US authorities have expressed inability to arrange the visit
of the delegation to Guantanamo Bay. He said at present there are five Pakistani
prisoners in Guantanamo Bay. Pakistan has secured the repatriation of 68
Pakistani detainees from Guantanamo Bay since 2003.

The Government is in regular contact with the Office of War Crimes Issue, US
Department of State, regarding Pakistani detainees. The issue of fair treatment
and repatriation of Pakistani detainees is raised at all levels including in
leadership meetings with the US President.

"We are committed to seek repatriation of all Pakistani detainees." he added.
The FO also again clarified that all three sound bites were wrongly attributed
to President Asif Ali Zardari in the paraphrased interview published by the Wall
Street Journal. To a question, the spokesman said President Zardari never said
that Pakistan has given permission to any country to take action inside its
territory in the name of war against terror.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 11 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 12, 2008 Sunday

Pakistan people living in fear as frequency of terror attacks increase - paper

LENGTH: 511 words


Text of report by staff correspondent headlined "Citizens fear for lives as
bombings become routine" published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on
11 October

Lahore: Citizens have been overtaken by the fear of losing their lives or their
loved ones in case of a terrorist attack, as a wave of seemingly never-ending
bomb blasts has struck the country. Meanwhile, the terrorists have diversified
their targets from chains of five-star hotels to small juice shops to establish
their own writ against the government, lawyers and civil society members told
Daily Times on Friday.

Usman Ibrahim, a resident of Gulberg, said that the youth were the ones most
greatly affected by the ongoing wave of terror in the country. He said that the
situation had depressed him as the terrorists were continuing their fruitless
attempts to control the country.

He said that recent blasts at juice shops and the threats received by traders at
Hall Road had revealed that the extremists had developed their roots in the
country, adding that the issue needed to be resolved through discussions and
negotiations instead of using force.

Civil society: Civil society representatives and human rights activists
condemned the bomb hoaxes, strongly criticising the government for not being
able to determine the origin of such hoaxes.

They said that intelligence agencies should take note of such bomb hoaxes and
should try to determine if this was part of some organised crime. They said that
such hoaxes could be disastrous as they disrupted the security set-up.

Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP) Vice-Chairwoman Hina Jilani said that
people who spread hoaxes should be found and punished. She said that security
forces should locate those who were behind such rumours, as they aimed to spread
panic. She said that terrorism was not jihad, and was just another crime.

Lawyers: Legal experts have termed bomb hoaxes as the inability of the
government to maintain security.

Supreme Court Bar Association Secretary Amin Javed Chaudhry said that after
every bomb blast, the government announced that security was on high alert.
However, he added, even when the security was on high alert, bomb blasts were
taking place. He said that this reflected on the inefficiency of the security
agencies.

Police claim: City Police have a very different idea of the people's attitude.
Various senior officials of police claimed that the citizens were not helping
the police, but were adding to the problems. They claimed that police emergency
number 15 was receiving about 12,000 to 13,000 prank calls every day, of which
only 150 were related to actual criminal activities.

They said that the need of the hour was responsible behaviour from the citizens.
They said that only 400,000 police officials were present within the country.
However, they pointed out that if the public co-operated with the police, this
number was not at all insufficient, and hence, public co-operation could provide
a significant advantage in combating terrorism.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 11 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                October 12, 2008

OMM: Reviews the top ten: 1 A post-7/7 love letter to the capital: NITIN SAWHNEY
London Undersound (Cooking Vinyl) £ 11.99 4/5: The first significant response in
pop to the terror attacks on London? Caspar Llewellyn Smith is a believer

BYLINE: Caspar Llewellyn Smith

SECTION: OBSERVER MUSIC MAGAZINE; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 657 words


Did the London bombings of 7/7 register any kind of cultural fallout, or were
the explosions swallowed up by the cacophony that is pop today? This is often
the sort of question that can attend to listening to a new Nitin Sawhney album -
and before anyone can mutter ' surely Bloc Party must have recorded something
along those lines', let's be quite clear: 'Days of Fire', the first track on
London Undersound , is certainly the most thoughtful and affecting response to
the horrors of that day yet committed to CD.

It sees the young MC Natty, one of several guest vocalists here, giving an
account of his experiences of the attacks and also of that day two weeks later
which saw the shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes (Natty was on the next tube
due into Stockwell station). Rather than agit-prop, the approach is personal;
set against Sawhney's acoustic guitar is the refrain 'it all went slow motion. .
. now we're all in slow motion', and as well as freezing the action and pain,
the blurring of confusion is felt, too.

London Undersound as a whole is intended as a response to 7/7 - for Sawhney it's
a 'collection of thoughts, ideas, feelings and catharsis in a city of immense
diversity, imagination and beliefs'. The rest of the record is nothing like as
explicit - several tracks don't feature vocals - but there is a political point
being made in the range of collaborators present: the Spanish outfit Ojos de
Brujo, sitarist Anoushka Shankar, Qui Zenghui, a moon lute player, and singers
of varying fame including Tina Grace, Imogen Heap, Rheena Bhardwaj and - giving
it less two thumbs aloft and more an impression of his thoughts on civil
surveillance - Paul McCartney.

Sawhney himself has always been adept in several genres - as a child he studied
piano, classical and flamenco guitar, sitar and tabla, and you can hear the
equally formative influence of Massive Attack on the track 'Last Train to
Midnight' and of drum'n'bass elsewhere. It's a good time for the multifaceted
musician who continues to mix up writing film scores (for the 1929 silent
classic A Throw of Dice , for instance) with club DJing duties. Last month,
presumably sharing track side with a gaggle of pneumatic pit girls, he carried
out two 'Sound System performances' at the Formula 1 night race in Singapore.
Later this month, he plays one of the BBC's Electric Proms at the Roundhouse.
Quietly, this restless figure has become established as one of our most
interesting and significant artists, but if that makes him sound terribly
po-faced, he's not. (And his CV does include the role he had, with Sanjeev
Bhaskar, in conceiving the TV show Goodness Gracious Me.

None the less, no one could pretend that this eighth album is a barrel of
laughs. It comes packaged with a series of drawings conceived to complement each
track by the artist Antony Gormley and these reflect the sombre tone. The
McCartney track does serve up optimism - 'When all the world is asleep, we could
set ourselves free,' he sings - but even then there's the dark shadow of the
question: 'How could they steel all these feelings?' Once you've got past the
distraction of it actually being McCartney at the mic, you realise that he
delivers a terrific vocal, but it's the weakest piece of songwriting on the
album. Better the closing instrumental pieces 'Firmament' and 'Charu Keshi
Rain', which address the ostensible subject matter of the record through the
deft subtleties of the playing.

'London has become polarised in a way that I find uncomfortable and
threatening,' Sawhney has also said. Compared to other recent albums that
address the capital, such as the Bug's London Zoo and even Dusk + Blackdown's
Margins Music , this is a record that goes about its business quietly. The
chatter of modern culture might make such a response to 7/7 unfashionable, but
such a thoughtful voice, and so deeply felt a record, shouldn't go unheeded.

DOWNLOAD 'Days of Fire'; 'My Soul'; 'Shadowland'


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            October 13, 2008 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Barriers at Subway to stop attacks;
TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 43 words


CRASH bollards are to be installed at Glasgow's 15 Subway stations to protect
them against a terrorist attack.

The barriers are to stop a similar attack to the one at Glasgow Airport last
year.

An SPT spokeswoman said the work would  cost around GBP270,000.

PAGE 19

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2008 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2008 Tuesday

Bosnian Federation parliament deplores Vitez "terror" attack

LENGTH: 227 words


Text of report by Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA

Sarajevo, 14 October: The Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation parliament's House of
Representatives today most vehemently condemned the recent terrorist attack at
the FIS shopping centre in Vitez and called on the Federation Interior Ministry
to keep the Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation parliament informed about the security
situation in this entity.

This is contained in conclusions adopted by the House of Representatives at the
proposal of deputy Katica Cerkez.

Federation officials told MPs that the Bosnia-Hercegovina Federation
institutions would most energetically oppose such occurrences, and praised the
police for swiftly identifying the perpetrators of the recent bomb attack at FIS
in which security guard Zvonko Barbic was killed and his colleague Josip Saric
seriously injured, while another seven people suffered slight injuries.

Federation Justice Minister Feliks Vidovic made the opening speech at the
session of the House of Representatives, which then proceeded to discuss the
draft law on conflict of interest.

The law prescribes the engagement of top officials in the Bosnia-Hercegovina
Federation and their close relatives.

The OHR [Office of the High Representative] has been insisting on its adoption
for quite some time now.

Source: SRNA news agency, Bijeljina, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 1105 gmt 14 Oct
08

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2008 Tuesday

Al-Qa'idah plotted terror attack in Russian resort town - security chief

LENGTH: 282 words


Text of "Novosti Dnya" news report by Russian Zvezda TV, Defence Ministry
controlled, promotes patriotic values, on 14 October

[Presenter] From the start of this year, 69 terrorist attacks have been
prevented in Russia, including in Sochi and Anapa. The announcement was made at
today's session of the National Antiterrorist Committee by its chairman, Russian
FSB [Federal Security Service] Director Aleksandr Bortnikov. He said that as a
result of operative measures, the law-enforcement agencies had destroyed several
militant groups and eliminated gunmen who were on the federal and international
wanted lists.

[Bortnikov] This year 69 crimes of terrorist nature have been identified and
prevented, including 36 which terrorists were planning to stage in crowded
places. In particular, in July-August this year an attempt by terrorist
ringleader [Dokka] Umarov and Al-Qa'idah emissary Magomed [Magonned in Interfax
news agency report] to stage terrorist attacks in the resort towns of Sochi and
Anapa with the use of powerful improvised bombs was prevented.

[Over 170 gunmen, including 13 ringleaders, have been killed in the North
Caucasus this year, Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian, 0833 gmt 14 Oct
08, quoted Bortnikov as saying. Over 350 members of militant groups have been
detained, he added.

Over 30 members of Hezb-e Tahrir have been prosecuted in Russia since the start
of 2008, Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian, 0837 gmt 14 Oct 08, quoted
Bortnikov as saying. In addition, five members of the "international terrorist
organization" Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan have been detained and extradited,
he said.]

Source: Zvezda TV, Moscow, in Russian 0900 gmt 14 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 14, 2008 Tuesday

Turkish forces repel "terrorist" attack on Iraq border - news agency

LENGTH: 146 words


Text of report by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 14 October: The Office of the General Staff announced that terrorists
from the Iraqi side of the border opened fire with heavy guns on the Gendarmerie
Border Company in Cukurca.

A group of terrorists from the Iraqi side of the border opened fire with heavy
weapons on the units of the 14th Gendarmerie Border Company stationed on the
Gazi Tepe near the Iraqi border at 1040 [0740 gmt] yesterday [13 October],
according to a press release posted under the heading of "Cases of Struggle
Against the Separatist Terror Organization" on the Internet page of the General
Staff.

The terrorists left the region confronted with "immediate and commensurate
retaliation" from the security forces. There was no loss of life or property
during the incident.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in Turkish 1406 gmt 14 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 15, 2008 Wednesday
                             Black Country Edition

Sex attack terror for mum in car;
Pervert strikes as woman waits with child

BYLINE: Dale Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 292 words


A TERRIFYING bare-chested thug is being hunted by police after a sex attack in
which he attempted to force himself on a young mum in the Black Country as she
sat in a car with her child.

Police have released the CCTV image of a man they would like to speak to in
connection with the sexual assault in Rowley Regis.

A West Midlands Police spokesman said today: "A 22-year-old woman was sat in a
car, along with her mother and a young child, on the car park of the Knight's
Quest pub on High Street. An unknown man approached her vehicle on foot, let
himself into the car and then attempted to engage both women in conversation.

The man has then grabbed the 22-year-old and forcibly kissed her against her
will before leaving the car." The offender is described as white, aged in his
30s, of medium build, around 5ft 8in tall, with shaved blonde hair that is
balding in places.

He wore two chains around his neck, blue jeans and he was bare chested. He also
has three tattoos on his right arm.

The woman was uninjured but was left very shaken by the incident which happened
at around 3.45pm on Thursday, August 21. Police have released the CCTV still of
the man after inquiries to catch him drew a blank.

Det Con Matthew Clarke, who is investigating the case, said: "This was an
unsavoury incident where a mother, daughter and a young child are sitting in a
car, going about their business when a man has come along and caused them to
fear for their safety. The incident caused the young woman a great deal of
distress and we are keen to trace the man responsible.

"We urge people who may recognise the man pictured to get in touch."

Anyone with information to assist with the inquiry should contact CID at
Smethwick police station on 0845 113 5000.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CCTV... police are hunting this man.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 15, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

Sex attack terror for mum in car

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 166 words


A TERRIFYING barechested thug (pictured) is being hunted by police after a sex
attack in which he attempted to force himself on a young mum in the Black
Country as she sat in a car with her child.

Police have released the CCTV image of a man they would like to speak to in
connection with the sexual assault in Rowley Regis.

A West Midlands Police spokesman said today: "A 22-year-old woman was sat in a
car, along with her mother and a young child, on the car park of the Knight's
Quest pub on High Street. An unknown man approached her vehicle on foot, let
himself into the car and then attempted to engage both women in conversation.

The man has then grabbed the 22-year-old and forcibly kissed her against her
will before leaving the car." The offender was white, aged in his 30s, of medium
build, around 5ft 8in tall, with shaved blonde hair that is balding in places.

He wore two chaThe woman was uninjured but was left very shaken by the incident
at around 3.45pm on Thursday, August 21.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Cornish Guardian

                           October 15, 2008 Wednesday

Naval reservist Scott helps guard ship against terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 185 words


On watch against potential terrorist attack in the northern Arabian Gulf is Able
Seaman Scott Healy, (right), a Bude builder by trade and currently deployed in
the Middle East as a naval reservist.

A member of HMS Vivid Royal Naval Reserve unit in Plymouth, Scott is based   on
the RFA Cardigan Bay,   a key sea base for   coalition naval forces protecting
Iraqi oil terminals against Al-Qaeda -  which has already made one suicide boat
attack on them.

The reservist is part of a protection team that patrols the upper decks of the
Cardigan Bay in sweltering temperatures, guns at the ready to repel attackers.

"We are on call 24 hours a day," explained Scott. "During night patrols we wear
night-vision goggles to keep an eye on what is going on around us."

To handle the extreme heat  and the punishing schedule of watches, Scott keeps
himself fit and rested up whenever he can.

He said: "If you are not out patrolling the ship's upper deck you are in the
onboard gymnasium or in your bunk."

A seven-year veteran of service in the Naval reserve, Scott was   called-up in
April and will return home to Cornwall soon.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 59


                        Copyright 2008 Cornish Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Cornish Guardian

                                October 15, 2008

Naval reservist Scott helps guard ship against terrorist attack;
On watch against potential terrorist attack in the northern Arabian Gulf is Able
Seaman Scott Healy, (right), a Bude builder by trade and currently deployed in
the Middle East as a naval reservist.

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 152 words


A member of HMS Vivid Royal Naval Reserve unit in Plymouth, Scott is based   on
the RFA Cardigan Bay,   a key sea base for   coalition naval forces protecting
Iraqi oil terminals against Al-Qaeda -  which has already made one suicide boat
attack on them.

The reservist is part of a protection team that patrols the upper decks of the
Cardigan Bay in sweltering temperatures, guns at the ready to repel attackers.

"We are on call 24 hours a day," explained Scott. "During night patrols we wear
night-vision goggles to keep an eye on what is going on around us."

To handle the extreme heat  and the punishing schedule of watches, Scott keeps
himself fit and rested up whenever he can.

He said: "If you are not out patrolling the ship's upper deck you are in the
onboard gymnasium or in your bunk."

A seven-year veteran of service in the Naval reserve, Scott was   called-up in
April and will return home to Cornwall soon.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 59


                        Copyright 2008 Cornish Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 15, 2008 Wednesday
                                  Eire Edition

PETROL BOMB ATTACK TERROR;
CRIME

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 53 words


A FAMILY-of-five narrowly cheated death after their home was petrol-bombed.

The property was attacked at around 10.45pm on Monday.

The parents tackled the flames at George's Court in Dungarvan, Co Waterford, and
got their three children out of the building.

A Garda spokesman said: "A second device was found at the scene."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

Pakistan agencies warn of possible terror attacks after parliament decision

LENGTH: 390 words


Text of report by Shakeel Anjum headlined "Fresh wave of bombings feared after
NA session" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 16 October

Islamabad: The intelligence agencies have warned of a fresh wave of terrorism in
the federal capital, indicating that the masterminds of terrorism have planned
to hit the Zardari House in F-8/2, the presidency, the parliament house and the
US embassy in the near future, sources in the Interior Ministry told The News on
Wednesday.

"It has been learnt that terrorists have planned to initiate a second wave of
bombings in Islamabad. This will be subjected to a decision by the joint session
of parliament to induct additional troops into the tribal areas. The terrorists
may use car bombs to attack the US embassy, the presidency or the Zardari House
in F-8/2," the report submitted to the concerned quarters of the interior
ministry said.

The intelligence agencies have suggested strict security measures around the
marked buildings. Sources said the terrorist outfits were waiting for a decision
about the operation in the tribal areas being made by the parliamentarians in
the ongoing joint session of parliament.

"Strict vigilance is required to thwart such suicide attacks planned by the
extremist outfits," reports said. Meanwhile, sources believe the terrorists
would adopt a new strategy to break into the security rings, adding, suicide
bombers could use fake Army vehicle, a police van, an ambulance or flagged cars
while the suicide bombers could disguise as Army personnel or policemen and
could be uniformed, adding the Army and police vehicles as well as ambulances
should be checked and scanned properly at sensitive pickets.

A countrywide wave of suicide bombings could occur simultaneously in major
cities of the country, targeting military installations, foreign missions, FIA
buildings and offices of the law-enforcement agencies, the sources apprehended.

The agencies have made a counter strategy after putting law-enforcement agencies
on high alert. Sensitive areas, including Cantonments, Army, Naval and Air Force
installations as well as offices of police chiefs, the Anti-Narcotics Force
(ANF) and the FIA have been put in the list of 'highly sensitive areas' and
extraordinary security measures have been adopted.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 16 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

Separatist official says Georgia planning terrorist attacks in South Ossetia

LENGTH: 154 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency ITAR-TASS

Tskhinvali, 16 October: The Georgian special services are preparing terrorist
attacks in [breakaway] South Ossetia, South Ossetian [separatist] interior
minister Mikhail Mindzayev said at his news conference today.

He also said that the interior ministry "has reports that terrorist attacks are
being prepared with the use of household appliances and vehicles. This equipment
is being delivered from Georgia through uncontrolled segments of the border,
being sold at low prices. Yesterday [15 October], the interior ministry found
and rendered harmless a washing machine stuffed with explosives, which was sold
to Russian builders."

Mindzayev asked the media to inform people that "according to operational data,
a consignment of mixers staffed with explosives has been delivered to the
republic's territory".

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1225 gmt 16 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

Iraqi premier expresses condolences over terrorist attacks in Turkey

LENGTH: 122 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

["TURKISH, IRAQI PRIME MINISTERS TALK ON PHONE" - AA headline]

ISTANBUL (A.A) -Turkish Premier Recep Tayyip Erdogan had a phone conversation
with Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki on Wednesday.

Maliki called Erdogan to offer his condolences over the recent terrorist attacks
in Turkey, Turkish Prime Ministry officials said.

Maliki said that Iraq did not appreciate terrorist organization PKK's using the
Iraqi territories to wage terrorist attacks.

Noting that Iraq was ready to take all kinds of precautions, Maliki said his
country was eager to carry on with the joint fight against terrorism.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1740 gmt 15 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

Misfit who was groomed to be a bomber;
Muslim convert admits terror attack on family restaurant

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham Security Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 443  words


AL-QAEDA extremists brainwashed an autistic Muslim convert into launching a
failed suicide nail bomb attack in a family restaurant.

Nicky Reilly, 22, tried to detonate a series of nail bombs, mixed in soft drink
bottles with caustic soda, paraffin and aluminium foil, in the Giraffe
restaurant at Exeter's Princesshay shopping centre in May this year.

But when he attempted to assemble one of the bombs in the lavatory cubicle of
the restaurant it exploded in his hands. Yesterday he pleaded guilty at the Old
Bailey to attempted murder and preparing an act of terrorism.

Police sources said that Reilly was groomed by two men on the YouTube website
who claimed to be living on the Afghan-Pakistan border and to be in touch with
al-Qaeda. The men are still at large.

"We believe these men were living abroad but we are still investigating whether
they were who they claimed to be,'' the source said.

The men discussed with Reilly, who called himself Mohammad Abdulaziz Rashid
Saeed Alim, whether to attack police officers and civil servants or the general
public, in the end persuading him it should be an attack on the public.

They also coached him to write a suicide note. Reilly left the typed note at the
flat he shared with his mother.

It referred to "Sheikh Osama'' and said: "We love death as you love life.''

His mother, Kim, said: "He is a vulnerable person who's been radicalised and
that is like an easy target, easy prey for them.

''Someone has brainwashed him - he has done the work and they are walking
free.''

Investigations are also continuing into radicals in this country who may have
played a part in encouraging Reilly, who has a low IQ and suffers from
Asperger's syndrome, to become a suicide bomber.

Reilly visited dozens of websites and learned how to make bombs from videos he
had downloaded on YouTube, where he used the log-in Chechen233 and gave his name
as Rashid. He had watched 4,262 videos since joining in November 2006 and his
favourites included dozens of videos about the September 11 attacks and ambushes
on Allied forces in Iraq.

The source added: "He suffers from a form of autism which means he is
essentially a highly suggestible simpleton and it is difficult for him to
comprehend the end result of his actions.

"His access to the internet means he came across bomb-making instructions but it
could easily have been a chess club - he has had ideas put in his head.''
Reilly, known to friends as the Big Friendly Giant, after the Roald Dahl
character, converted to Islam in 2002 at the age of 16 but did not begin
researching bomb-making until the beginning of this year.

He will be sentenced next month after psychiatric reports.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

Bomb victim's 2012 dream;
Terror attack saw Daniel Biddle lose his legs _ but not his fighting spirit

BYLINE: Gareth A Davies

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 656  words


IT WAS the morning of July 7 2005, only hours after London had won the right to
host the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2012, and the euphoria was subsiding.
Daniel Biddle woke late, with a headache, at his east London home, and headed in
to work.

He missed trains, his breakfast, and through a curious series of incidents,
broke the routine of his regular journey to work as a project manager for a
construction company.

His misfortune was to find himself sitting on the Tube train, next to the
suicide bomber who blew himself up along with seven other people at Edgware Road
station at 9.17am. In total, 52 commuters lost their lives in the rush-hour
attack and

over 700 were injured.

Biddle, now 29, lost both legs, his left eye and later, in hospital, his spleen
as his powerful body absorbed the blast and was blown out through the Tube
carriage and into the tunnel wall.

Yesterday, if catharsis is possible from such a horrific moment, the horrendous
injuries which followed, and what must be painfully difficult memories, his life
came full circle when he tried out at a Paralympic Talent Day at Mile End
Stadium with 70 other hopefuls all aiming to be fast-tracked into the Great
Britain team for 2012.

It is hard to keep a dry eye as Biddle relates, emotionless, his story of
travelling to a meeting in Wembley that morning from east London.

"I was late leaving home, my bus was delayed at Liverpool Street. I let the
first tube go because it was packed. I was texting a colleague when I got on the
next train, and I've got big fingers and I'm useless at texting, and looked up
and realised I had missed my usual station. As we pulled into Edgware Road, I
looked around me. A youngish-looking Asian guy was sitting on a seat next to me.
Then bang - I couldn't work out why I was outside the train.

"As the dust settled, there were body parts all around me. I knew then it was a
bomb. A flap of skin on my head was hanging down over my face, my arms were on
fire. I tried to move the train door off my legs, but I realised they had gone.

"If there is a hell, then that was it. I was absolutely terrified - it wasn't
the dying, it was dying alone. I didn't want my girlfriend Lisa, now my wife,
and my family to have to identify me in that state. Three men got me out, saved
my life, and we are still friends.''

He was in a coma for six weeks, in hospital for 51 weeks. "A year was a
benchmark for me. I wanted to get out of there before a year. It was a turning
point.''

Biddle was 6ft 4in tall, a semi-professional footballer who played in goal for
Hatfield Peverel in the Essex Premier League, before the terrorist bomb blew off
his legs.

He is still a big man, with powerful upper-body strength. Biddle tried out
yesterday in the Paralympic sports of shot putt, power lifting, and in archery,
which, as he is right-handed and still has the vision of his right eye, is still
potentially a sport he could excel at. The sports centre is a stone's throw from
the Olympic Park.

"You know, I watched the Paralympic Games from Beijing, on TV every night in
September, and thought about competing in 2012. My manor, east London. I don't
think I will ever accept what possessed that person to do that thing, but I have
accepted who I am now.

"You've got to focus on what you can do, not what you can't do. You get to a
point where you get your life back, and this is now what my life is.

"I've finished my exams, I've gone back to work, I drive, I go to the gym, I use
a sports chair. I'm the same person, still a loud-mouthed cockney,'' he joked.

Then he got serious. "I just hope the selectors for the Paralympic Games saw
something in me today, and I hope I'm good enough to get into the team.''

Daniel Biddle Paralympic gold medallist, perhaps?

"Oh, I do like the sound of that,'' he replied. When the celebration parade
travels through London today, we might just say a silent prayer for the events
of the anniversary, one day later.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

Terror attack timeline

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 971 words


Thursday, may 22

12.50pm: Police and ambulance services receive calls from members of the public
reporting that a man, later named as Nicky Reilly, 22, of King Street, Plymouth,
has been injured in an explosion at Giraffe restaurant in Princesshay.

1pm: A 100m cordon is established and police begin a full evacuation of the
area.

1.40pm: Police confirm it is believed an explosion has occurred.

2pm: Nicky Reilly is taken to the RD&E Hospital.

2.20pm: Bomb disposal officers arrive at the scene with sniffer dogs.

3pm: The city centre, including Princesshay, most of High Street and Paris
Street and part of Sidwell Street, is deserted. The Guildhall Shopping Centre
has also been evacuated.

3.25pm: Police confirm that a man is in custody following the explosion.

4.15pm: Bomb disposal experts prepare to enter the Giraffe restaurant.

Police reveal they have been called to three other reports of suspicious devices
in the city centre but all are false alarms.

5.15pm: Forensic officers begin to examine the Giraffe restaurant after bomb
disposal experts declare the scene safe.

6.50pm: Police reveal two devices have been found, one of which had exploded and
another that was made safe.

7pm: A phased lifting of the cordons begins and workers return to shops and
offices within the exclusion zone. Motorists are also able to retrieve their
vehicles from  car parks in Princesshay and Southernhay.

Under the protocol of a gold standard major incident, a central control room is
set up to co-ordinate the response of all emergency services. Around 10 officers
from the Metropolitan Police counter- terrorism team are drafted in to Exeter to
help with the investigation.

High-visibility patrols and sniffer dogs are also deployed at London Paddington,
checking passengers as they come off trains from Exeter.

FRIDAY, MAY 23

The city centre is back to normal, although Exeter  businesses are reckoned to
have lost at least £1.5m.

Armed police seize two more men  in Plymouth.

Over the weekend, Exeter's  Princesshay and other streets are once again
brimming with people, especially on Saturday with many keen to watch the victory
parade by Exeter City and a reunion march by the Devon and Dorset Regiment
Association.

MONDAY, MAY 26

Reilly is described as being in a serious but stable condition at the Royal
Devon & Exeter Hospital. It is understood that the 6ft 1in tall, 18st Reilly had
an operation, believed to have involved skin grafts. In the afternoon, he is
discharged from hospital and held in custody, to be formally questioned by
police.

New information emerges, as police say the device was made from sodium hydroxide
and paraffin and packed with nails and was designed to detonate when shaken.

TUESDAY, MAY 27

Reilly is questioned  at a secret location by a team of officers keen to unearth
possible links between him and Islamic radicals. The Muslim convert was
questioned in sessions lasting up to 90 minutes and could be held for up to 28
days under the Terrorism Act. Police say Reilly, who suffers from learning
difficulties, was allowed breaks as and when he needed them.

It emerges that Reilly travelled from Plymouth to Exeter with more than 50
people on a bus on the morning of the blast.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 28

A third man is arrested in Plymouth in connection with the explosion.

THURSDAY, MAY 29

Two men arrested over the  bombing appear at Central Devon Magistrates' Court.
But the three-hour city  court session was held behind closed doors. It is
believed police are  seeking  a seven-day extension to question the pair, one
believed to be  Reilly.

Searches of addresses, including the Muslim Community Centre in Plymouth, also
take place.

MONDAY, JUNE 2

Reilly, and two other men arrested in Plymouth, remain in custody. A fourth man
is also helping police with their inquiries.

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4

Reilly appears before   City of Westminster magistrates  in London, under the
name Mohammad Rashid Saeed Alim. Judge Timothy Workman remands him in custody to
appear at the Old Bailey on June 20. No application for bail is made.

Reilly was brought from Devon, where he has been questioned for nine days after
his release from hospital.

Devon and Cornwall police have charged Reilly with three offences on Tuesday,
including one of engaging in conduct in preparation for committing acts of
terrorism.

Court documents reveal he is accused of researching how to make an improvised
explosive device and acquiring components for one.

The charge also alleges  he constructed more than one device from caustic soda,
paraffin, aluminium foil, nails and glass soft drink bottles.

Reilly also faces  charges of possession of explosives and possessing explosives
with intent.

FRIDAY, JUNE 6

Police confirm that a second man arrested in connection with the Exeter
restaurant bomb blast is no longer being detained under the Terrorism Act.

Religious leaders release a joint statement about the bombing to show solidarity
between the city's different faiths.

FRIDAY, JUNE 20 - LONDON:

Reilly appears at the Old Bailey. Mr Justice Calvert- Smith suggests that the
case should be moved closer to the region and confirms that October 15 could be
a date for Reilly to enter a plea to the charges he faces.

Reilly is listed at the court under the name Mohammad Rashid Saeed Alim. He
appears via video link from Belmarsh Prison, in London, and spoke to confirm
that he understood the judge's instructions about the proceedings.

PLYMOUTH:

A man arrested by armed police in Plymouth a day after the explosion  is jailed
for a year for having a false passport. Algerian Rafik Aouamria, of Old Laira
Road, Plymouth, was detained by police at a pavement cafe in Old Town Street on
May 23.

No one other than Reilly will face charges in connection with the Princesshay
explosion.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15

Reilly appears before the Old Bailey and pleads guilty to the charges he faces.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

Terror attack timeline;
Thursday, may 22

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 968 words


12.50pm: Police and ambulance services receive calls from members of the public
reporting that a man, later named as Nicky Reilly, 22, of King Street, Plymouth,
has been injured in an explosion at Giraffe restaurant in Princesshay.

1pm: A 100m cordon is established and police begin a full evacuation of the
area.

1.40pm: Police confirm it is believed an explosion has occurred.

2pm: Nicky Reilly is taken to the RD&E Hospital.

2.20pm: Bomb disposal officers arrive at the scene with sniffer dogs.

3pm: The city centre, including Princesshay, most of High Street and Paris
Street and part of Sidwell Street, is deserted. The Guildhall Shopping Centre
has also been evacuated.

3.25pm: Police confirm that a man is in custody following the explosion.

4.15pm: Bomb disposal experts prepare to enter the Giraffe restaurant.

Police reveal they have been called to three other reports of suspicious devices
in the city centre but all are false alarms.

5.15pm: Forensic officers begin to examine the Giraffe restaurant after bomb
disposal experts declare the scene safe.

6.50pm: Police reveal two devices have been found, one of which had exploded and
another that was made safe.

7pm: A phased lifting of the cordons begins and workers return to shops and
offices within the exclusion zone. Motorists are also able to retrieve their
vehicles from  car parks in Princesshay and Southernhay.

Under the protocol of a gold standard major incident, a central control room is
set up to co-ordinate the response of all emergency services. Around 10 officers
from the Metropolitan Police counter- terrorism team are drafted in to Exeter to
help with the investigation.

High-visibility patrols and sniffer dogs are also deployed at London Paddington,
checking passengers as they come off trains from Exeter.

FRIDAY, MAY 23

The city centre is back to normal, although Exeter  businesses are reckoned to
have lost at least £1.5m.

Armed police seize two more men  in Plymouth.

Over the weekend, Exeter's  Princesshay and other streets are once again
brimming with people, especially on Saturday with many keen to watch the victory
parade by Exeter City and a reunion march by the Devon and Dorset Regiment
Association.

MONDAY, MAY 26

Reilly is described as being in a serious but stable condition at the Royal
Devon & Exeter Hospital. It is understood that the 6ft 1in tall, 18st Reilly had
an operation, believed to have involved skin grafts. In the afternoon, he is
discharged from hospital and held in custody, to be formally questioned by
police.

New information emerges, as police say the device was made from sodium hydroxide
and paraffin and packed with nails and was designed to detonate when shaken.

TUESDAY, MAY 27

Reilly is questioned  at a secret location by a team of officers keen to unearth
possible links between him and Islamic radicals. The Muslim convert was
questioned in sessions lasting up to 90 minutes and could be held for up to 28
days under the Terrorism Act. Police say Reilly, who suffers from learning
difficulties, was allowed breaks as and when he needed them.

It emerges that Reilly travelled from Plymouth to Exeter with more than 50
people on a bus on the morning of the blast.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 28

A third man is arrested in Plymouth in connection with the explosion.

THURSDAY, MAY 29

Two men arrested over the  bombing appear at Central Devon Magistrates' Court.
But the three-hour city  court session was held behind closed doors. It is
believed police are  seeking  a seven-day extension to question the pair, one
believed to be  Reilly.

Searches of addresses, including the Muslim Community Centre in Plymouth, also
take place.

MONDAY, JUNE 2

Reilly, and two other men arrested in Plymouth, remain in custody. A fourth man
is also helping police with their inquiries.

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4

Reilly appears before   City of Westminster magistrates  in London, under the
name Mohammad Rashid Saeed Alim. Judge Timothy Workman remands him in custody to
appear at the Old Bailey on June 20. No application for bail is made.

Reilly was brought from Devon, where he has been questioned for nine days after
his release from hospital.

Devon and Cornwall police have charged Reilly with three offences on Tuesday,
including one of engaging in conduct in preparation for committing acts of
terrorism.

Court documents reveal he is accused of researching how to make an improvised
explosive device and acquiring components for one.

The charge also alleges  he constructed more than one device from caustic soda,
paraffin, aluminium foil, nails and glass soft drink bottles.

Reilly also faces  charges of possession of explosives and possessing explosives
with intent.

FRIDAY, JUNE 6

Police confirm that a second man arrested in connection with the Exeter
restaurant bomb blast is no longer being detained under the Terrorism Act.

Religious leaders release a joint statement about the bombing to show solidarity
between the city's different faiths.

FRIDAY, JUNE 20 - LONDON:

Reilly appears at the Old Bailey. Mr Justice Calvert- Smith suggests that the
case should be moved closer to the region and confirms that October 15 could be
a date for Reilly to enter a plea to the charges he faces.

Reilly is listed at the court under the name Mohammad Rashid Saeed Alim. He
appears via video link from Belmarsh Prison, in London, and spoke to confirm
that he understood the judge's instructions about the proceedings.

PLYMOUTH:

A man arrested by armed police in Plymouth a day after the explosion  is jailed
for a year for having a false passport. Algerian Rafik Aouamria, of Old Laira
Road, Plymouth, was detained by police at a pavement cafe in Old Town Street on
May 23.

No one other than Reilly will face charges in connection with the Princesshay
explosion.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15

Reilly appears before the Old Bailey and pleads guilty to the charges he faces.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

'Exeter as a target just didn't add up';
Ritain's security services were shaken to the core by the terrorist attacks in
the United States on September 11 2001. The resultant reorganisation has
established a counter- terrorism command in London and three regional
counter-terrorism unit "hubs" in the West Midlands, Greater Manchester and West
Yorkshire.

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 904 words


The regional network also extends to an office of MI5 in the South West, as well
as a police-staffed counter- terrorism intelligence unit in the Westcountry.
Then there are the local Special Branch officers and the resources of Devon and
Cornwall Police.

Even though the necessary policies had been put in place, the equipment
purchased and officers trained, few can have imagined that Exeter would be the
next target following attacks on London and Glasgow.

Certainly for Bill Tupman,  an expert on terrorism from the University of
Exeter, "the story didn't add up".

"On one hand, we are being told that he [the bomber]  is educationally
challenged, on the other hand he's put together two devices sufficiently
sophisticated to hurt himself," he says. "That didn't add up with him being the
sort of person that the media was portraying him as.

"The other thing that didn't seem right was Exeter as a target. It didn't fit in
with any organised way of looking at the world, there are many places that you
would expect to be targets - the Giraffe cafe in Exeter, it just didn't seem
likely.

"Why would you have a go at Exeter? There is no good answer to that question."

Within nine hours of the bombing, Devon and Cornwall Police's deputy chief
constable had told reporters that Reilly had been "preyed upon, radicalised and
taken advantage of", despite "his weak and vulnerable illness".

It was a statement which intrigued Mr Tupman.

"If he had been manipulated by somebody who knew what they were doing, they
would have sent him to London, to Heathrow, to Bristol at least," he says.
"There are much more obvious targets to send someone to who is regarded as
disposable.

"There clearly was a lot of interest in the radicalisation process and it was
fashionable at that stage to talk of people who made a terrorist career out of
radicalising people, similar to paedophile grooming.

"But the reports that have come out say that there is no such thing as a typical
terrorist, there is no typical path of recruitment, and there are individuals
being radicalised by interaction with websites just as much as they are being
radicalised by individuals."

Questions remain as to how Reilly managed to hide his intentions from the police
and other security agencies. While openly converting to Islam, he covertly
researched how to construct the devices which could have caused devastation in a
family- friendly cafe.

Mr Tupman said there was clearly a "huge amount" of electronic surveillance
being undertaken. Reilly, however, may have avoided tripping the system because
he didn't set a pattern.

"I think there is so much traffic out there that you don't just get red- flagged
for visiting one site," he explained. "You get red-flagged for a succession of
visits to a succession of sites - for a pattern of behaviour.

"Somebody like Reilly, given his background, might not follow a pattern. There
is an awful lot of recording stuff out there and I suspect after this incident,
some of the red flags will have been adjusted.

"There is a lot more going on out there than we realise because we don't
actually know what the technology being used is.

"It is a possibility that, post-9/11, we fell into the American trap of relying
too much on electronic intelligence and too little on human intelligence."

Current counter-terrorism strategy is based on what are referred to as the "Four
Ps" - prevent, pursue, protect and prepare. The pursuit agenda has become plain
and resulted in a number of high-profile court cases.

The prevent strategy, now being strengthened by Government, has so far been the
"poor relation", according to Mr Tupman.

"That is because there is no career to be made out of it and there is no way of
measuring how successful it is," he explains.

"It is like the business of police patrol work - you can't measure how
successful it is. If a crime has been prevented, there is no way of measuring
that.

"Prevention is the poor relation, as is human intelligence. It is undervalued.

"It is hard work, it involves you putting yourself into the other person's
shoes. It involves you learning how to think like they do. It takes a certain
sort of person. It has always been easier to respond and react."

He says the question now being posed is why the potential threat of Islamic
extremists was not identified a decade ago. Equally, questions are being raised
about the possible threats in the next 10 years.

The security services, he argues, would have to have been expanded anyway to
counter the resurgence of Russia and China.

But, Mr Tupman added: "We have got to worry now about people coming back from
Iraq and Somalia. There are people of British origin in both places.

"We are tending to concentrate on Pakistan and we are used to seeing the threat
as being from people who are of Indian sub-continent origin.

"But we may be in danger of a North African wave. Training has also been going
on in Iraq and, as people are dispersed, some of them came to the UK. So we may
have a more professional threat to deal with."

To date, Mr Tupman feels the response to the current threats has been
proportionate, but says "care" is needed not to overstep the mark.

"We have got to watch the human rights angle, because we can lose the whole show
if the security services and the terrorists work together to undermine
democracy," he concludes. "Then we have all lost.

"Five men and a dog cannot bring down democracy, but they can provoke an
overreaction."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

Misfit admits to botched suicide bomb attack;
Muslim convert Nicky Reilly appeared via video-link from the high- security
Belmarsh prison to plead guilty to launching his doomed terrorist attack on a
Westcountry restaurant.

BYLINE: Matt Chorley London Editor

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 796 words


The 22-year-old admitted plotting what his barrister described as an "ugly and
dangerous incident" at the Giraffe restaurant in Exeter in May.

He used the Internet to research how to make his bombs using caustic soda,
paraffin and about 500 nails. But when he attempted to assemble one of the
soft-drink glass bottle bombs in a toilet cubicle of the restaurant, it exploded
in his hands.

In the public gallery of the Old Bailey's Court 12, his mother Kim seemed to
wipe away tears as he told the court he was guilty of attempted murder and a
second charge of preparing a terrorist attack. He is due to be sentenced on
November 21 after psychological reports  have been  completed.

During the 45-minute hearing it emerged that Reilly - who was charged under the
name Mohammad Rashid Saeed Alim - had "long nursed an ambition" to become a
martyr.

He had considered targeting high- profile sites in his home city of Plymouth,
including Devonport Dockyard, Drake Circus shopping centre and Charles Cross
police station.

Instead he travelled on a bus to Exeter and made his way to the restaurant where
the ingredients of his makeshift bombs exploded prematurely.

Reilly, of King Street, Plymouth, was arrested when he staggered out of the
restaurant after suffering serious facial injuries in the blast on May 22.

As the judge, Mr Justice Calvert- Smith, read detailed papers relating to the
case, Reilly took deep breaths but appeared relaxed and showed no obvious signs
of the injuries he sustained in the blast.

The court heard Reilly had begun planning his attack early this year and from
January started looking at Internet websites to research how to assemble a
suicide vest. He also watched a video on the website YouTube entitled "Home-made
bombs". He was also in "frequent contact" with two people via the Internet,
which included a debate about who to target in an attack. The pair have still
not been traced by police.

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith said: "He bought more than necessary equipment over
those months to construct two types of improvised devices, one using caustic
soda and the other kerosene. He appears to have tried to increase the potential
for injury and death both to himself and others by putting chemicals in glass
bottles and filling those bottles with a total of around 500 nails."

On the morning of May 22, he travelled to Exeter by bus from Plymouth with six
bottles, three containing caustic soda, three kerosene and another chemical
contained in drain cleaner.

Kerim Fuad, defending, said at the time of sentencing that he wanted to present
a statement and a psychiatric report for the court. He said he had a wealth of
material to put to the judge on Reilly's "unusual and complex personal
background which led to this ugly and dangerous incident".

Reilly had planned to run into the restaurant from the toilets holding three
bottle bombs to his stomach. But the first one reacted prematurely and he could
not get out of the cubicle.

Prosecutor Stuart Baker said: "His recollection now is that he was unable to
open the lock of the cubicle door and come out, by which time the first device
had already exploded."

The judge said: "There is evidence from materials seized that he became
increasingly drawn to violent action in support of fellow Muslims in revenge for
perceived persecution and to the idea of becoming a martyr."

During yesterday's hearing, Reilly's mother Kim was comforted by a police family
liaison officer. In an interview she said her son was incapable of making the
devices without "instructions or guidance from someone".

Mrs Reilly said her son was "a vulnerable person who has been radicalised",
adding that he was  an "easy target, easy prey for them".

"Nicky is so vulnerable, he has got special needs, he has got Asperger's
Syndrome," she said. "All I can say is what Nicky was like. They have
brainwashed him. He's done the work and they are walking free."

Mrs Reilly, whose second son Luke is also in jail, said Nicky needed to be in
hospital rather than prison.

Referring to her son's conversion to Islam, she said he had changed because of
"all the people that he was hanging around with".

"He believed that he was on the right path, he'd found the right religion and
this was the right way of life," she said. "But Nicky could have met people from
any faith - if someone befriended him that would have been the path he would
have taken."

She did, however, admit to being concerned by her son's increasingly extremist
view of the world.

Mrs Reilly has made several trips to see her son in  Belmarsh prison, which
houses other convicted terrorists. A card written by Reilly to his mother from
prison reads: "To the queen of my heart - my mum. Just to say how much I love
and miss you. You are my lovely, beautiful mother. Love you, Nicky."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

'Exeter as a target just didn't add up';
Ritain's security services were shaken to the core by the terrorist attacks in
the United States on September 11 2001. The resultant reorganisation has
established a counter- terrorism command in London and three regional
counter-terrorism unit "hubs" in the West Midlands, Greater Manchester and West
Yorkshire.

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 904 words


The regional network also extends to an office of MI5 in the South West, as well
as a police-staffed counter- terrorism intelligence unit in the Westcountry.
Then there are the local Special Branch officers and the resources of Devon and
Cornwall Police.

Even though the necessary policies had been put in place, the equipment
purchased and officers trained, few can have imagined that Exeter would be the
next target following attacks on London and Glasgow.

Certainly for Bill Tupman,  an expert on terrorism from the University of
Exeter, "the story didn't add up".

"On one hand, we are being told that he [the bomber]  is educationally
challenged, on the other hand he's put together two devices sufficiently
sophisticated to hurt himself," he says. "That didn't add up with him being the
sort of person that the media was portraying him as.

"The other thing that didn't seem right was Exeter as a target. It didn't fit in
with any organised way of looking at the world, there are many places that you
would expect to be targets - the Giraffe cafe in Exeter, it just didn't seem
likely.

"Why would you have a go at Exeter? There is no good answer to that question."

Within nine hours of the bombing, Devon and Cornwall Police's deputy chief
constable had told reporters that Reilly had been "preyed upon, radicalised and
taken advantage of", despite "his weak and vulnerable illness".

It was a statement which intrigued Mr Tupman.

"If he had been manipulated by somebody who knew what they were doing, they
would have sent him to London, to Heathrow, to Bristol at least," he says.
"There are much more obvious targets to send someone to who is regarded as
disposable.

"There clearly was a lot of interest in the radicalisation process and it was
fashionable at that stage to talk of people who made a terrorist career out of
radicalising people, similar to paedophile grooming.

"But the reports that have come out say that there is no such thing as a typical
terrorist, there is no typical path of recruitment, and there are individuals
being radicalised by interaction with websites just as much as they are being
radicalised by individuals."

Questions remain as to how Reilly managed to hide his intentions from the police
and other security agencies. While openly converting to Islam, he covertly
researched how to construct the devices which could have caused devastation in a
family- friendly cafe.

Mr Tupman said there was clearly a "huge amount" of electronic surveillance
being undertaken. Reilly, however, may have avoided tripping the system because
he didn't set a pattern.

"I think there is so much traffic out there that you don't just get red- flagged
for visiting one site," he explained. "You get red-flagged for a succession of
visits to a succession of sites - for a pattern of behaviour.

"Somebody like Reilly, given his background, might not follow a pattern. There
is an awful lot of recording stuff out there and I suspect after this incident,
some of the red flags will have been adjusted.

"There is a lot more going on out there than we realise because we don't
actually know what the technology being used is.

"It is a possibility that, post-9/11, we fell into the American trap of relying
too much on electronic intelligence and too little on human intelligence."

Current counter-terrorism strategy is based on what are referred to as the "Four
Ps" - prevent, pursue, protect and prepare. The pursuit agenda has become plain
and resulted in a number of high-profile court cases.

The prevent strategy, now being strengthened by Government, has so far been the
"poor relation", according to Mr Tupman.

"That is because there is no career to be made out of it and there is no way of
measuring how successful it is," he explains.

"It is like the business of police patrol work - you can't measure how
successful it is. If a crime has been prevented, there is no way of measuring
that.

"Prevention is the poor relation, as is human intelligence. It is undervalued.

"It is hard work, it involves you putting yourself into the other person's
shoes. It involves you learning how to think like they do. It takes a certain
sort of person. It has always been easier to respond and react."

He says the question now being posed is why the potential threat of Islamic
extremists was not identified a decade ago. Equally, questions are being raised
about the possible threats in the next 10 years.

The security services, he argues, would have to have been expanded anyway to
counter the resurgence of Russia and China.

But, Mr Tupman added: "We have got to worry now about people coming back from
Iraq and Somalia. There are people of British origin in both places.

"We are tending to concentrate on Pakistan and we are used to seeing the threat
as being from people who are of Indian sub-continent origin.

"But we may be in danger of a North African wave. Training has also been going
on in Iraq and, as people are dispersed, some of them came to the UK. So we may
have a more professional threat to deal with."

To date, Mr Tupman feels the response to the current threats has been
proportionate, but says "care" is needed not to overstep the mark.

"We have got to watch the human rights angle, because we can lose the whole show
if the security services and the terrorists work together to undermine
democracy," he concludes. "Then we have all lost.

"Five men and a dog cannot bring down democracy, but they can provoke an
overreaction."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

Misfit admits to botched suicide bomb attack;
Muslim convert Nicky Reilly appeared via video-link from the high- security
Belmarsh prison to plead guilty to launching his doomed terrorist attack on a
Westcountry restaurant.

BYLINE: Matt Chorley London Editor

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 796 words


The 22-year-old admitted plotting what his barrister described as an "ugly and
dangerous incident" at the Giraffe restaurant in Exeter in May.

He used the Internet to research how to make his bombs using caustic soda,
paraffin and about 500 nails. But when he attempted to assemble one of the
soft-drink glass bottle bombs in a toilet cubicle of the restaurant, it exploded
in his hands.

In the public gallery of the Old Bailey's Court 12, his mother Kim seemed to
wipe away tears as he told the court he was guilty of attempted murder and a
second charge of preparing a terrorist attack. He is due to be sentenced on
November 21 after psychological reports  have been  completed.

During the 45-minute hearing it emerged that Reilly - who was charged under the
name Mohammad Rashid Saeed Alim - had "long nursed an ambition" to become a
martyr.

He had considered targeting high- profile sites in his home city of Plymouth,
including Devonport Dockyard, Drake Circus shopping centre and Charles Cross
police station.

Instead he travelled on a bus to Exeter and made his way to the restaurant where
the ingredients of his makeshift bombs exploded prematurely.

Reilly, of King Street, Plymouth, was arrested when he staggered out of the
restaurant after suffering serious facial injuries in the blast on May 22.

As the judge, Mr Justice Calvert- Smith, read detailed papers relating to the
case, Reilly took deep breaths but appeared relaxed and showed no obvious signs
of the injuries he sustained in the blast.

The court heard Reilly had begun planning his attack early this year and from
January started looking at Internet websites to research how to assemble a
suicide vest. He also watched a video on the website YouTube entitled "Home-made
bombs". He was also in "frequent contact" with two people via the Internet,
which included a debate about who to target in an attack. The pair have still
not been traced by police.

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith said: "He bought more than necessary equipment over
those months to construct two types of improvised devices, one using caustic
soda and the other kerosene. He appears to have tried to increase the potential
for injury and death both to himself and others by putting chemicals in glass
bottles and filling those bottles with a total of around 500 nails."

On the morning of May 22, he travelled to Exeter by bus from Plymouth with six
bottles, three containing caustic soda, three kerosene and another chemical
contained in drain cleaner.

Kerim Fuad, defending, said at the time of sentencing that he wanted to present
a statement and a psychiatric report for the court. He said he had a wealth of
material to put to the judge on Reilly's "unusual and complex personal
background which led to this ugly and dangerous incident".

Reilly had planned to run into the restaurant from the toilets holding three
bottle bombs to his stomach. But the first one reacted prematurely and he could
not get out of the cubicle.

Prosecutor Stuart Baker said: "His recollection now is that he was unable to
open the lock of the cubicle door and come out, by which time the first device
had already exploded."

The judge said: "There is evidence from materials seized that he became
increasingly drawn to violent action in support of fellow Muslims in revenge for
perceived persecution and to the idea of becoming a martyr."

During yesterday's hearing, Reilly's mother Kim was comforted by a police family
liaison officer. In an interview she said her son was incapable of making the
devices without "instructions or guidance from someone".

Mrs Reilly said her son was "a vulnerable person who has been radicalised",
adding that he was  an "easy target, easy prey for them".

"Nicky is so vulnerable, he has got special needs, he has got Asperger's
Syndrome," she said. "All I can say is what Nicky was like. They have
brainwashed him. He's done the work and they are walking free."

Mrs Reilly, whose second son Luke is also in jail, said Nicky needed to be in
hospital rather than prison.

Referring to her son's conversion to Islam, she said he had changed because of
"all the people that he was hanging around with".

"He believed that he was on the right path, he'd found the right religion and
this was the right way of life," she said. "But Nicky could have met people from
any faith - if someone befriended him that would have been the path he would
have taken."

She did, however, admit to being concerned by her son's increasingly extremist
view of the world.

Mrs Reilly has made several trips to see her son in  Belmarsh prison, which
houses other convicted terrorists. A card written by Reilly to his mother from
prison reads: "To the queen of my heart - my mum. Just to say how much I love
and miss you. You are my lovely, beautiful mother. Love you, Nicky."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 17, 2008 Friday

Home minister says terror attacks "greatest concern" for India

LENGTH: 207 words


Text of report by Jehangir Ali headlined "Patil is concerned at terror attacks"
published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age on 17 October

Manesar, Haryana, 16 October: Stressing the need for strengthening the
intelligence and security system in the country, Union [Federal] Home Minister
Shivraj Patil on Thursday [16 October] said the recent terror attacks in the
country are of "greatest concern" for the government and vital installations
need to be protected from such attempts.

Mr Patil expressed concern over repeated terror attacks and said that the
priority of his ministry was to protect vital installations in the country. "The
blasts are a matter of concern for us and we have to strengthen our security and
intelligence to avert such happenings. The security at vital installations of
the country which have been built by sweat and hard work has to be ensured," he
said while addressing the 24th raising day celebrations of the NSG [National
Security Guards] here.

The minister lauded the role of National Security Guards in combating terrorism
and said the increasing demand from VIPs to provide National Security Guards
security has proven that people have confidence in it.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 17 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                            October 17, 2008 Friday

Knife attack terror for club customer

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

SECTION: NORTH WEST NEWS (NORTHWEST)

LENGTH: 241 words


Two men were slashed across the face with a knife after being threatened by
armed thieves during a robbery at a club in Stockport.

The robbery happened at the Heaton Norris Conservative Club on Hapton Place at
about 9.20pm on Thursday.

Two thieves armed with knives forced open the doors to the private bar and one
of the attackers grabbed a customer from behind, holding him at knifepoint and
threatening to cut off his ear.

He suffered a small cut to his face and was also told he would be stabbed in the
neck.

The second attacker, who was also armed with a knife, grabbed hold of the
landlord and forced him to open the till. He also stole a quantity of cash from
the landlord's pockets and then cut his cheek with the blade.

Both men then fled.

They are described as white and wearing balaclavas and police are now appealing
to anyone who has information about the robbery to come forward.

Detective Constable Marcus Ellaby, based at Stockport CID, said: "The two
offenders we are looking for are clearly dangerous, opportunistic men who are
prepared to use knives just to get their hands on some cash.

"The fact they actually used the knives to injure the victims shows they need to
apprehended as soon as possible.

"I would appeal to anyone who has any information to come forward so we can
progress our investigation and find these men."

Anyone with information should call Stockport CID on 0161 856 9755 or
Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            October 17, 2008 Friday

City bomb attack has brought different faith groups closer together;
The attempted terrorist attack on Princesshay has failed to divide the city's
different faith communities, according to academics and religious
representatives.

BYLINE: JULIA BRADSHAW

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 543 words


As 22-year-old Nicky Reilly awaits sentencing after pleading guilty to attempted
murder and preparing terrorist acts, experts have continued to analyse why he
carried out the crime, how he was radicalised and what can be done to prevent a
similar outrage from happening again.

Looking back on the failed bomb attack at Giraffe Restaurant on May 22, Martyn
Goss, director of the Council for Church and Society, said: "I think it has left
a cloud over people, but it has probably brought the different faith communities
closer together because we wanted to express support and solidarity for one
another.

"One of the outcomes has been closer co-operation and getting to know each other
better.

"I would also echo that for the individuals, families and communities, there can
now be closure, and, to some extent, people can get on with their lives and we
can put this behind us.

"I think people from all walks of life have learned lessons from what happened.
It has brought us closer together and presented us with an opportunity to share
understanding with one another, and I hope that we can move on positively."

Dr Larbi Sadiki, a politics lecturer at Exeter University, said the explosion
shocked the city's mosque community.

"There was fear that the incident would be reflected on Muslims," said Dr
Sadiki.

"I think people were petrified by the allegation that Nicky Reilly had been
manipulated by the Muslim community, that he was somehow an agent of some
pernicious force.

"It is something the community at large has since talked about in cafes and over
dinner.  Exeter is an idyllic place, not Madrid or New York, and we asked
ourselves what was going on. Many people were really disheartened and wondered
why he would convert and then engage in this activity.

"People are relieved at the guilty plea and think it's good that justice will be
handed down.

"It's also a reminder for all and sundry not to engage in, or even contemplate
criminal behaviour.  What he did was against Muslim law and no one here condones
it."

Dr Sadiki suggested proper training for Muslim preachers might be one way to
prevent extremism.

He said: "We need qualified experts to teach the faith.  The role is very
complex, challenging and demanding.  You have  to wear two or three hats at the
same time.

"If you don't have the proper training you can mislead people and not do your
job properly."

Dr Jonathan Githens-Mazer, senior lecturer in politics at Exeter University,
said pinpointing the exact cause of terrorism was difficult.

"I think this notion that people are being manipulated into extremism is not
quite right," he said.

"In this case it was probably true.  Nicky Reilly was obviously mentally ill and
had serious difficulties.

"But we have to understand that not all people who engage in violent extremism
are easily manipulated.

"It is a very complex issue, with no three or four factors to explain exactly
why it happens.

"I think perhaps in many cases legitimate grievances are manipulated and used as
excuses for justifying terrorism.

"Nicky Reilly's case is interesting because the radicalisation happened in a
virtual state.

"First we saw people going to training camps abroad, then they went to train in
locations in Britain, and now, in this instance, it has developed online."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           October 18, 2008 Saturday
                                  SC1 Edition

HOW WE BEAT THE AIRPORT BOMBERS;
Court hears astonishing tales of bravery from the people caught in terror attack

BYLINE: Emily Andrews

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 987 words


ORDINARY people were the heroes of the day when two terrorists crashed a burning
Jeep into Glasgow Airport.

In court yesterday, passengers relived the horror of the attack for the first
time as they described how Dr Bilal Abdulla and Kafeel Ahmed drove their
bomb-filled car into the entrance of the terminal.

Amid chaotic scenes on the airport's busiest day of the year, people ran for
their lives as the car burst into flames. But some brave bystanders tried to
tackle the two men as they hurled Molotov cocktail petrol bombs.

One even had his leg broken as he struggled to bring down Abdulla, who was
trying to hit a police officer.

Michael Kerr had returned from a holiday with his wife, children and parents and
had just collected his car from the long-stay car park on Saturday, June 30,
last year. He told Woolwich Crown Court: 'He [Abdulla] gets out the car and goes
to the police officer, trying to punch the police officer, and from that he
backed off. 'He comes round the back of the car and I was about 20 yards away. I
knew something was wrong, so I went for him. It happened in a flash. 'I ran
across to him in the back of the Jeep and there were punches exchanged. I got my
tooth knocked out, my crown knocked out and my leg was broken. 'I don't know if
it was me kicking the man or the man kicking me. It was a clash.'

Mr Kerr, who spent four days in hospital and needed surgery and metal rods in
his leg as well as dental work, collapsed and watched his attacker disappear
into the terminal building. He then saw Ahmed, 28, pour petrol through the
window and the vehicle went up in flames. 'The driver got out of the car and
rolled in the petrol and he was ablaze,' he continued. 'He got to his feet. I
was trying to pull myself back and I remember him getting up and fighting with
another policeman.' Mr Kerr was pulled out of the way and Ahmed later died of
his injuries in hospital.

Taxi driver Alexander McIlveen was behind the Jeep when it careered into the
terminal building and he saw petrol bombs being thrown. He also scuffled
29-year-old Abdulla, before turning his attention to the driver, Ahmed, who was
on fire.

'There was two people with fire extinguishers trying to hose him down,' said Mr
McIlveen. 'Once he was hosed down, he was trying to get to the boot of the Jeep.
He realised he couldn't do it and came towards everybody just shouting and
throwing punches. 'He was burnt. It was quite weird. He wasn't shouting for help
because he was burnt. 'He was just shouting and hollering - it wasn't in
English, I couldn't understand him. 'He was just throwing punches and we were
trying to surround him and contain him.

' Taxi driver Brian Roan said Ahmed had an 'expressionless' look on his face as
he drove the Jeep into the airport. 'He was staring straight ahead, not left or
right. He didn't look as if he was in a panic or had been in a crash, he was
straight ahead and determined - totally focused. 'We never thought anything
would happen to Glasgow, let alone a terrorist attack.' Sergeant Torquil
Campbell was the first police officer on the scene when the Jeep crashed into
Terminal One at about 3.10pm.

He ran over to the Jeep and saw that it was ablaze. He said: 'Bilal Abdulla saw
myself and ran towards me, ten or 15 yards away from the Jeep. 'My first
impression was that he was evidently trying to keep me away from the vehicle.
'He ran towards me and seemed very calm but was very aggressive in wanting to
keep me away from the vehicle. 'He was lashing out with both arms but I managed
to avoid him. I looked back to the vehicle and I assumed there was still a
driver in the vehicle . 'Bilal Abdulla looked back to the vehicle, looking
intently at it. In a split second, I knew he was expecting something else to
happen.'

Sergeant Campbell then described how Kafeel Ahmed appeared out of the flames of
the burning Jeep and was on fire. He said: 'His whole body was smouldering and
he was well alight.' The sergeant described how he 'His whole body smouldering,
he was well alight' heard 'popping' noises from the burning car and assumed that
it was fluid in the vehicle or electricity wires. Ahmed then ran towards him, so
Sergeant Campbell pulled out his CS gas and sprayed it in his face. At the same
time, Ahmed was overpowered by two members of the public and two other police
officers. Another police officer, PC William Thomson, tried to get hold of Ahmed
but his 'skin came off in my hands'. The two men were eventually brought down
and arrested.

Meanwhile, inside the terminal, pandemonium had broken out. Gillian Girasoli was
knocked over in the stampede for the exit as terrified passengers tried to
escape from the building. 'People were running and screaming in all directions,'
she said in a statement read to the court. 'I could hear children screaming.
Cases were lying in all directions. It reminded me of the film of 9/11.'

She fell down, was trampled on and picked up by two men. The airport's customer
services director, Derek Provan, told the court in a statement: 'June 30, 2007,
I would class as one of the busiest days of the year for Glasgow Airport., as it
was the first day of the Scottish school holidays and there was a very high
number of passengers.' Mr Provan added that there were 'He was throwing punches
and he was shouting' 3,500 passengers in the airport at the time, 82 flights
were cancelled and 12 were diverted after the airport was closed.

It was a number of weeks before the airport got back to normal operations.
Abdulla and Ahmed are said to have been part of a small terrorist cell operating
in the UK, along with a second medic, Dr Mohammad Asha, 28. They are accused of
deploying two car bombs in the West End of London on June 29 last year which
failed to go off, despite repeated attempts to detonate them by mobile phone.
Both men deny the charges of conspiracy to murder and to cause explosions. The
case continues.

e.andrews@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Have-a-go hero: Michael Kerr's leg was broken as he fought a terrorist

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 20, 2008 Monday

Tourism drops in Pakistan's Peshawar following recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 127 words


Text of report headlined "Five private tourists companies have closed down
operations in Peshawar; dozens of employees have been sacked" published by
Pakistani newspaper Ausaf on 14 October

Peshawar: Five private tourist business concerns have shut down their offices
and sacked several dozen employees owing to the recent wave of terrorism and the
restriction on the arrival of foreigners in Peshawar. Between 60 and 70
foreigners were arriving in Peshawar prior to the Marriott Hotel bomb blast, and
more than 2,000 foreigners were present in Peshawar's guesthouses at the time of
the blast.

However, according to the latest reports, the arrival of foreigners in Peshawar
has been reduced to one or two persons per day.

Source: Ausaf, Islamabad, in Urdu 14 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2008 Tuesday

Bosnian daily says Zagreb-based Albanian mafia involved in Vitez terror attack

LENGTH: 636 words


Excerpt from report by Bosnian Serb state-owned daily Glas Srpske, on 20 October

[Report by Goran Maunaga: "Proof That Terrorist Cells Exist in
Bosnia-Hercegovina"]

Banja Luka, Sarajevo - The attack on the FIS Shopping Mall in Vitez demonstrated
the well-planned strategy of creating strong cells of the terrorist
organizations, said Slavko Jovicic, member of the joint security-intelligence
committee for monitoring the work of the Intelligence Security Agency. He told
Glas Srpske that he had asked the committee and the international community
representatives to submit the names of the people whose past represented a
threat to the security in Bosnia-Hercegovina.

"It is not surprising that the organized mafia from Croatia and Kosovo got
linked with the circles in Bosnia-Hercegovina and that they are working on
destabilizing the country. Vitez cannot be regarded as an isolated case, and all
security services in Bosnia-Hercegovina must cut the terrorist acts at the
root," Jovicic said.

Brano Zrno, chairman of the B-H joint defence-security committee, said that
nobody in the committee asked for detailed information about the terrorist act
in FIS in Vitez. "We have very little information, and as soon as the
investigation is completed, we will request comprehensive information," Zrno
noted.

Hazim Rancic, member of the B-H defence-security committee, said that he did not
have any operational data, nor did he know the type of the criminal act in
Vitez.

None of our interlocutors wanted to say whether they would raise the question
before the relevant B-H institutions concerning the responsibility of the most
senior officials in the Intelligence-Security Agency and the State Investigation
and Protection Agency over the mistakes in "the Vitez case." These two agencies
are in charge of fighting terrorism and they neither prevented nor arrested the
perpetrators. The arrest operation was done by the B-H Federation Interior
Ministry.

On Saturday [18 October], the B-H Court decided to detain for one month Amir
Ibrahimi (aged 41), suspected of participating in setting up an explosion in the
FIS Shopping Mall in Vitez.

Suvad Djidic (aged 36), the earlier suspect of this act, confirmed in the course
of the police investigation that he got the order from Ibrahimi personally to
plant the explosive device. The other suspect of the attack is Admir Ahmetovic
(aged 32), from Zenica.

Glas Srpske's sources close to the police circles have said that Ibrahimi came
to Bosnia-Hercegovina from Germany, so as to participate in this terrorist
attack.

This source said that Ibrahimi belonged to the Osmani clan.

[libellous passage omitted]

"Ibrahimi is the connection between the one who ordered and the one who executed
the attack on FIS. This means that he was connected with the organizers of this
terrorist act who are sitting in Zagreb," the source claims.

He added that Ibrahimi had no connection with the mafia clan in Sarajevo and
that he was in direct connection with the headquarters in Zagreb.

Ibrahimi was born in Vitez, and he lived in Travnik for a while. He is known to
the German police from before.

The Croatian web portal www.necenzurirano.com argues that the attack in Vitez
was organized by the headquarters of the Albanian mafia for the Balkans, seated
in Zagreb. It said that Ibrahimi could not carry out this attack without the
approval of the bosses in Zagreb, from where the strictly hierarchical Albanian
mafia was controlled.

[libellous passage omitted]

[Box] Diverting Attention

The Croatian portal necenzurirano.com claims that the headquarters of the
Albanian mafia in Zagreb had to divert the attention from itself and its
activities, so it carried out the bomb operation in Vitez in panic and rush.

[libellous passage omitted]

Source: Glas Srpske, Banja Luka, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 20 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                            October 21, 2008 Tuesday

Mugger robs woman in terror attack

BYLINE: Linda Richards

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 179 words


A WOMAN suffered a terrifying attack at the hands of a mugger.

The 56-year-old finance company agent was collecting cash in Hetton-le-Hole,
near Houghton, last night when the masked robber ambushed her.

She was in Lady Street just before 11pm when she was grabbed from behind by a
man who tried to steal her hand bag. She tried to struggle free of her attacker
but was dragged to the ground.

A Northumbria police spokesman said: "The offender then placed his foot on her
face, forcing her to let go of the bag which contained a substantial amount of
cash and ran off.

"The woman was uninjured but shocked after the incident."

Police say the man is believed to have been crouching behind a parked car before
the attack.

He is said to be around 5ft 5in and slim. He wore a navy hooded top, black
tracksuit bottoms with white stripes and white trainers. He also wore a black
baseball cap and a black scarf around his face.

Police are appealing for the public's help in tracing him  and witnesses should
call Sunderland CID on 03456 043 043 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555
111.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            October 21, 2008 Tuesday

Police 'have to learn more about Muslims' Devon's top cop says;
Police must learn more about Islam and radicalisation in the wake of the
terrorist attack on Princesshay, Devon's top officer has warned.

BYLINE: ECHO REPORTER

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 420 words


Chief constable Stephen Otter was speaking at a conference entitled The Police,
Muslims and Radicalisation, organised by the force's Black Police Association.

He also praised the "solidarity" of the Devon community in the wake of Nicky
Reilly's failed suicide bombing at the Giraffe restaurant.

The conference was already being  planned when the Muslim convert from Plymouth,
who had changed his name to Mohammad Rashid Saeed Alim, tried to detonate
homemade nail bombs amid lunchtime diners in May.

Reilly, 22, pleaded guilty to  preparing a terrorist attack and  attempted
murder at the Old  Bailey last week.

He is said to have been encouraged to carry out the bombing by  two unknown
associates in Pakistan with whom he was in contact over the internet.

Mr Otter said the timing of yesterday's event was a coincidence but provided a
"very powerful" opportunity.

He said: "People will take it a lot more seriously now that we have had an event
like the  Exeter bombing."

He said it was vital that the force and its officers learned more  about Islam,
the Muslim community and the way in which people were radicalised.

Referring to the Princesshay attack, Mr Otter, who holds the race  and diversity
portfolio for the  Association of Chief Police Officers, added: "There has been
a  real sense of solidarity against this in our community and it is  important
that we take the  opportunity to say there is more  we can do and more we can
learn."

The conference in Plymouth was attended by nearly 100 people. Most were from the
police, including Special Branch, CID and traffic officers, although the
audience also included community leaders and other partners.

One of the key speakers was  Mohammed Khaliel, a member of the Scotland  Yard
Muslim Safety Forum, who is also involved in police training.

He responded to  questions from the audience  about Islam, terrorism and jihad,
as well as about the structure of the religion and the role of women.

Mr Khaliel said Islam was  "all about peace" and that radical and violent
teachings were "a mix of culture and interpretation, trying to make something
fit into what you want it to".

"It is about opening closets and  bringing down barriers," Mr  Khaliel added.
"The Nicky  Reilly case is in our minds and  hearts, it is about bringing it out
into the open and speaking  openly and frankly."

He said the conference  had been  well-received and was crucial  in building a
stronger relationship between community and  police to increase the opportunity
of picking up  problems earlier.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2008 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 21, 2008 Tuesday

National: DPP attacks approach to fighting terror

BYLINE: Afua Hirsch, Legal affairs correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 261 words


The government is at risk of creating a society where "freedom's back is
broken", the director of public prosecutions has said while attacking
counter-terrorism policy in a speech yesterday.

Citing the "relentless pressure of a security state", Sir Ken Macdonald QC added
to criticism of new laws in the wake of the government's defeat over proposals
to detain terrorism suspects for 42 days without trial.

Macdonald, who steps down this month after five years as head of the Crown
Prosecution Service, described some aspects of the government's response to the
terrorism threat as "medieval delusions". He said he had repeatedly called for
"level-headedness" and had ensured the CPS "had not feared fairness" in its
attempt to prosecute acts of terrorism, in contrast to the government's lack of
"legislative restraint".

Echoing comments made by the House of Lords, Macdonald suggested that the
government would be giving into terrorists if it continued to erode freedom. "It
is difficult to see who will maintain a cool head if governments do not," he
said.

Macdonald's speech, which also served as the CPS's inaugural annual lecture,
came a week after the government suffered a fatal blow to the 42-day detention
proposals contained in its counter-terrorism bill.

Although Macdonald has consistently opposed what he describes as "unnecessary"
counter-terror legislation, yesterday's comments were his strongest yet and came
days before he steps down as DPP. His successor, Keir Starmer QC, is also
expected to lead the CPS in opposing any reduction in individual rights.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 22, 2008 Wednesday

Victims of 2002 terror attack file new lawsuits against Moscow authorities

LENGTH: 240 words


Text of report by Gazprom-owned, editorially independent Russian radio station
Ekho Moskvy on 22 October

[Presenter] The victims of the terrorist attack at the Dubrovka theatre [in
October 2002, when hostages were seized and over 100 people were killed] have
filed more lawsuits ahead of the sixth anniversary of the tragedy. Former
hostages and families of those who died are asking to be recompensed for damages
inflicted by marauders at the scene of the tragic events, lawyer Igor Trunov
explained.

[Trunov] After examining the case materials relating to the investigation of the
Nord-Ost terrorist attack, we found a number of documents recording the
valuables of the former hostages or the hostages who died. We have filed a civil
lawsuit against the Moscow prosecutor's office, and the Moscow government as
co-defendant, since it finances the Moscow prosecutor's office.

One of the first two lawsuits is for R500,000 [around 18,500 dollars] and the
other is for R600,000. This is money which was embezzled and stolen by
law-enforcement personnel from the Mikhailov family - that's the journalist,
Maksim, who died - and the Dolgoy family, from whom several thousand dollars
were also stolen from a bag, along with several tens of thousands of roubles.

[Presenter] So far only two lawsuits have been submitted to court, but
altogether 10 have been prepared, the lawyer added.

Source: Ekho Moskvy radio, Moscow, in Russian 1400 gmt 22 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Leek Post and Times

                                October 22, 2008

Pensioners tell of terror as 'devil dogs' attack on street

BYLINE: Belinda Hargreaves

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 591 words


Two pensioners were injured after being attacked in separate incidents by a
Rottweiler and a Staffordshire bull terrier.

A 60-year-old woman needed hospital treatment to her face and fingers after
being knocked over and bitten by the bull terrier. A man who came to her rescue
was also bitten.

Her pet West Highland terrier suffered damaged back muscles after being bitten
in the attack and needed surgery.

The attack on Wallbridge Drive on Friday evening was followed on Sunday by an
incident where an 85-year-old suffered a head injury after being attacked by a
Rottweiler.

She was treated at her home for bruising and scratching to her face.

Police have spoken to the owner of the Rottweiler and inquiries are still
continuing into the incident at Pickwood recreation ground.

The 60-year-old victim, who does not want to be named for fear of reprisals, was
walking her dog with her 62-year-old husband near the Prince of Wales pub at
5.15pm on Friday.

The bull terrier - described as black with a grey face - knocked both her and
the couple's dog over.

She said: "I knew it would go for our dog's throat, so I put my arm around our
dog's neck to protect it.

"The other dog bit my hands and my face before sinking its teeth into our dog's
back."

Her husband said: "I tried to get the bull terrier off our dog.

"A man from across the road came over and got hold of something - I think it was
the other dog's lead - and wrapped it around the other dog's back legs and
pulled it out from under me.

"The dog also bit that man's hands."

The couple managed to escape in a friend's car and took the dog to a vet's in
Leek, where he was operated on the following day. The wound is now healing but
the animal has a drainage tube in his back.

The bull terrier's harness was broken in the incident and was found nearby.

The  pensioner said: "We've not been through anything like this before; it was a
nightmare."

Her husband said: "There was a woman with the dog and although it had a lead on,
by the time it got to us she wasn't holding on to it. She kept saying: 'What can
I do about it?'"

The couple contacted police and Moorlands MP Charlotte Atkins.

Ms Atkins said: "I have received details about the incident  and it  sounds
absolutely horrendous. There are clear laws that a person in charge of a dog is
responsible and in the worst case scenario the dog should be destroyed. I will
be talking to the police about it."

In the second incident, an 85-year-old woman - who has not been named - was
walking at Pickwood recreation ground on Sunday at around 3pm when she was
attacked.

Steve Maskrey, inspector of Leek police, said officers would be increasing
patrols in the area.

He said: "It is unacceptable that members of the community have to run the risk
of being attacked by someone else's dog.

"The owner of the dog and one of the men walking with the dog at the time have
been spoken to  at length and officers will be making further inquiries."

Other dog walkers who use  Pickwood recreational ground reported having seen
aggressive dogs regularly.

Roger Deaville is a resident on Ashbourne Road whose property backs onto the
Pickwood recreation ground.

The 43 year-old trailer manufacturer said: "We do have a problem with some
terriers in the area which have bitten me, my brother and a postman."

Councillor Steve Povey is a resident on Ashbourne Road and uses the park to walk
his dog.

He said: "Owners of aggressive natured dogs have a responsibility to keep them
under control.

"It's the training that's important and a good owner should know their animal's
capability."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 204


                    Copyright 2008 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Leek Post and Times

                           October 22, 2008 Wednesday

Pensioners tell of terror as 'devil dogs' attack on street

BYLINE: Belinda Hargreaves

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 591 words


Two pensioners were injured after being attacked in separate incidents by a
Rottweiler and a Staffordshire bull terrier.

A 60-year-old woman needed hospital treatment to her face and fingers after
being knocked over and bitten by the bull terrier. A man who came to her rescue
was also bitten.

Her pet West Highland terrier suffered damaged back muscles after being bitten
in the attack and needed surgery.

The attack on Wallbridge Drive on Friday evening was followed on Sunday by an
incident where an 85-year-old suffered a head injury after being attacked by a
Rottweiler.

She was treated at her home for bruising and scratching to her face.

Police have spoken to the owner of the Rottweiler and inquiries are still
continuing into the incident at Pickwood recreation ground.

The 60-year-old victim, who does not want to be named for fear of reprisals, was
walking her dog with her 62-year-old husband near the Prince of Wales pub at
5.15pm on Friday.

The bull terrier - described as black with a grey face - knocked both her and
the couple's dog over.

She said: "I knew it would go for our dog's throat, so I put my arm around our
dog's neck to protect it.

"The other dog bit my hands and my face before sinking its teeth into our dog's
back."

Her husband said: "I tried to get the bull terrier off our dog.

"A man from across the road came over and got hold of something - I think it was
the other dog's lead - and wrapped it around the other dog's back legs and
pulled it out from under me.

"The dog also bit that man's hands."

The couple managed to escape in a friend's car and took the dog to a vet's in
Leek, where he was operated on the following day. The wound is now healing but
the animal has a drainage tube in his back.

The bull terrier's harness was broken in the incident and was found nearby.

The  pensioner said: "We've not been through anything like this before; it was a
nightmare."

Her husband said: "There was a woman with the dog and although it had a lead on,
by the time it got to us she wasn't holding on to it. She kept saying: 'What can
I do about it?'"

The couple contacted police and Moorlands MP Charlotte Atkins.

Ms Atkins said: "I have received details about the incident  and it  sounds
absolutely horrendous. There are clear laws that a person in charge of a dog is
responsible and in the worst case scenario the dog should be destroyed. I will
be talking to the police about it."

In the second incident, an 85-year-old woman - who has not been named - was
walking at Pickwood recreation ground on Sunday at around 3pm when she was
attacked.

Steve Maskrey, inspector of Leek police, said officers would be increasing
patrols in the area.

He said: "It is unacceptable that members of the community have to run the risk
of being attacked by someone else's dog.

"The owner of the dog and one of the men walking with the dog at the time have
been spoken to  at length and officers will be making further inquiries."

Other dog walkers who use  Pickwood recreational ground reported having seen
aggressive dogs regularly.

Roger Deaville is a resident on Ashbourne Road whose property backs onto the
Pickwood recreation ground.

The 43 year-old trailer manufacturer said: "We do have a problem with some
terriers in the area which have bitten me, my brother and a postman."

Councillor Steve Povey is a resident on Ashbourne Road and uses the park to walk
his dog.

He said: "Owners of aggressive natured dogs have a responsibility to keep them
under control.

"It's the training that's important and a good owner should know their animal's
capability."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 204


                    Copyright 2008 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Leek Post and Times

                                October 22, 2008

Pensioners tell of terror as 'devil dogs' attack on street

BYLINE: Belinda Hargreaves

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 591 words


Two pensioners were injured after being attacked in separate incidents by a
Rottweiler and a Staffordshire bull terrier.

A 60-year-old woman needed hospital treatment to her face and fingers after
being knocked over and bitten by the bull terrier. A man who came to her rescue
was also bitten.

Her pet West Highland terrier suffered damaged back muscles after being bitten
in the attack and needed surgery.

The attack on Wallbridge Drive on Friday evening was followed on Sunday by an
incident where an 85-year-old suffered a head injury after being attacked by a
Rottweiler.

She was treated at her home for bruising and scratching to her face.

Police have spoken to the owner of the Rottweiler and inquiries are still
continuing into the incident at Pickwood recreation ground.

The 60-year-old victim, who does not want to be named for fear of reprisals, was
walking her dog with her 62-year-old husband near the Prince of Wales pub at
5.15pm on Friday.

The bull terrier - described as black with a grey face - knocked both her and
the couple's dog over.

She said: "I knew it would go for our dog's throat, so I put my arm around our
dog's neck to protect it.

"The other dog bit my hands and my face before sinking its teeth into our dog's
back."

Her husband said: "I tried to get the bull terrier off our dog.

"A man from across the road came over and got hold of something - I think it was
the other dog's lead - and wrapped it around the other dog's back legs and
pulled it out from under me.

"The dog also bit that man's hands."

The couple managed to escape in a friend's car and took the dog to a vet's in
Leek, where he was operated on the following day. The wound is now healing but
the animal has a drainage tube in his back.

The bull terrier's harness was broken in the incident and was found nearby.

The  pensioner said: "We've not been through anything like this before; it was a
nightmare."

Her husband said: "There was a woman with the dog and although it had a lead on,
by the time it got to us she wasn't holding on to it. She kept saying: 'What can
I do about it?'"

The couple contacted police and Moorlands MP Charlotte Atkins.

Ms Atkins said: "I have received details about the incident  and it  sounds
absolutely horrendous. There are clear laws that a person in charge of a dog is
responsible and in the worst case scenario the dog should be destroyed. I will
be talking to the police about it."

In the second incident, an 85-year-old woman - who has not been named - was
walking at Pickwood recreation ground on Sunday at around 3pm when she was
attacked.

Steve Maskrey, inspector of Leek police, said officers would be increasing
patrols in the area.

He said: "It is unacceptable that members of the community have to run the risk
of being attacked by someone else's dog.

"The owner of the dog and one of the men walking with the dog at the time have
been spoken to  at length and officers will be making further inquiries."

Other dog walkers who use  Pickwood recreational ground reported having seen
aggressive dogs regularly.

Roger Deaville is a resident on Ashbourne Road whose property backs onto the
Pickwood recreation ground.

The 43 year-old trailer manufacturer said: "We do have a problem with some
terriers in the area which have bitten me, my brother and a postman."

Councillor Steve Povey is a resident on Ashbourne Road and uses the park to walk
his dog.

He said: "Owners of aggressive natured dogs have a responsibility to keep them
under control.

"It's the training that's important and a good owner should know their animal's
capability."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 204


                    Copyright 2008 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 23, 2008 Thursday

Breakaway Abkhazia accuses Georgia of "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 199 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Sukhumi, 23 October: The [separatist] Abkhaz state security service has accused
the Georgian special services of killing the chief of the intelligence
department of the country's defence ministry, Eduard Emin-zade.

"The state security service assesses the incident as yet another terrorist
attack which the Georgian special services planned and carried out against
members of the Abkhaz power-wielding agencies," the public relations centre of
the state security service told Interfax.

The dead body of Eduard Emin-zade was found in the town of Gali on Thursday
morning [23 October]. According to preliminary data, he died as a result of a
wound to his head. His dead body was found in a private house at 0800 [0400
gmt].

The state security service of the republic reported that later the dead body of
Eldar Shamugia was found near a ford across the Inguri River [which separates
Abkhazia from the rest of Georgia]. Shamugia was the owner of the house where
the dead body of Emin-zade was found.

A team from the Gali District police department are investigating the case.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0804 gmt 23 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                           October 23, 2008 Thursday

Families terrorised by armed attackers

BYLINE:  LAURA DALE

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 530 words


Families feared for their lives as windows were smashed and a 15-year-old girl
assaulted in a violent incident involving three armed men.

The night-time attack on Haytor View happened after an argument.

The thugs returned and four windows were smashed at  the end-of-terrace
property.

A car was vandalised and teenager Jacqueline Stuz (pictured) hit over the head
with a metal pole before her father Andrew (also pictured) was also assaulted.

The men, one of whom was said to be armed with a lock knife and a cordless
drill, then allegedly barged their way into the flat and threatened the
occupants before stealing unknown items and fleeing.

Seven police units, including officers armed with Taser guns, and  a dog handler
were called to the scene of the incident which happened at about 10.10pm on
Tuesday.

Police cordoned off the Heathfield area and up towards Chudleigh Knighton.

One man was arrested at about 10.30pm near to the scene and the police
helicopter was scrambled to help locate another two suspects who were found
heading in the direction of Chudleigh Knighton.

The sniffer dog was deployed before one man was detained on the B3344 road near
Chudleigh Knighton and a third man was arrested on the A38 Chudleigh slip road
just after midnight.

A discarded hammer and a cordless drill were also found in a nearby field.

Yesterday, residents living at Haytor View described the event as something out
of the Al Capone era.

Father of five Andrew Stuz, 42,  said: "My oldest children came downstairs
because they had heard smashing glass and were scared stiff. I went outside to
see what was going on and three lads ran around the corner smashing windows on
the ground floor flat next door.

"I asked them what they were doing and they just attacked us. My daughter was
hit over the head with a steel bar and I was then hit on the arm."

Another resident, who did not want to be named, said: "I heard screams and glass
smashing. We were petrified. I thought they were going to kill us. It was like
something out of an Al Capone movie."

Police confirmed they received a 'number of calls' from worried residents who
heard the commotion and described it as 'bedlam'.

Insp Ian Curson said: "We were called to an on-going incident of disorder. When
we arrived there were a number of windows which had been smashed on the ground
floor. Allegations were made that the offenders had stolen some items from the
property and threatened the occupants.

"We recovered a small lock knife from one suspect and found a drill and a hammer
which the dog handler found 40 yards away in a nearby field. These items may or
may not be connected to the crime."

Insp Curson said the flat was in 'disarray' following the attack and an interior
door had been badly damaged.

A spokesman for South Western Ambulance Trust said: "We were called at 10.39pm.
Paramedics treated a 15-year-old girl for a head injury at the scene, she was
not conveyed to hospital."

A 20 year old man has been arrested on suspicion of aggravated burglary and
possession of an offence weapon. Two other men, aged 17 and 18, were arrested on
suspicion of aggravated burglary.

All three men were taken to Torquay Police Station for questioning.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2008 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                           October 23, 2008 Thursday

Families terrorised by armed attackers

BYLINE: LAURA DALE

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 530 words


Families feared for their lives as windows were smashed and a 15-year-old girl
assaulted in a violent incident involving three armed men.

The night-time attack on Haytor View happened after an argument.

The thugs returned and four windows were smashed at  the end-of-terrace
property.

A car was vandalised and teenager Jacqueline Stuz (pictured) hit over the head
with a metal pole before her father Andrew (also pictured) was also assaulted.

The men, one of whom was said to be armed with a lock knife and a cordless
drill, then allegedly barged their way into the flat and threatened the
occupants before stealing unknown items and fleeing.

Seven police units, including officers armed with Taser guns, and  a dog handler
were called to the scene of the incident which happened at about 10.10pm on
Tuesday.

Police cordoned off the Heathfield area and up towards Chudleigh Knighton.

One man was arrested at about 10.30pm near to the scene and the police
helicopter was scrambled to help locate another two suspects who were found
heading in the direction of Chudleigh Knighton.

The sniffer dog was deployed before one man was detained on the B3344 road near
Chudleigh Knighton and a third man was arrested on the A38 Chudleigh slip road
just after midnight.

A discarded hammer and a cordless drill were also found in a nearby field.

Yesterday, residents living at Haytor View described the event as something out
of the Al Capone era.

Father of five Andrew Stuz, 42,  said: "My oldest children came downstairs
because they had heard smashing glass and were scared stiff. I went outside to
see what was going on and three lads ran around the corner smashing windows on
the ground floor flat next door.

"I asked them what they were doing and they just attacked us. My daughter was
hit over the head with a steel bar and I was then hit on the arm."

Another resident, who did not want to be named, said: "I heard screams and glass
smashing. We were petrified. I thought they were going to kill us. It was like
something out of an Al Capone movie."

Police confirmed they received a 'number of calls' from worried residents who
heard the commotion and described it as 'bedlam'.

Insp Ian Curson said: "We were called to an on-going incident of disorder. When
we arrived there were a number of windows which had been smashed on the ground
floor. Allegations were made that the offenders had stolen some items from the
property and threatened the occupants.

"We recovered a small lock knife from one suspect and found a drill and a hammer
which the dog handler found 40 yards away in a nearby field. These items may or
may not be connected to the crime."

Insp Curson said the flat was in 'disarray' following the attack and an interior
door had been badly damaged.

A spokesman for South Western Ambulance Trust said: "We were called at 10.39pm.
Paramedics treated a 15-year-old girl for a head injury at the scene, she was
not conveyed to hospital."

A 20 year old man has been arrested on suspicion of aggravated burglary and
possession of an offence weapon. Two other men, aged 17 and 18, were arrested on
suspicion of aggravated burglary.

All three men were taken to Torquay Police Station for questioning.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2008 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                           October 23, 2008 Thursday

Families terrorised by armed attackers

BYLINE: LAURA DALE

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 530 words


Families feared for their lives as windows were smashed and a 15-year-old girl
assaulted in a violent incident involving three armed men.

The night-time attack on Haytor View happened after an argument.

The thugs returned and four windows were smashed at  the end-of-terrace
property.

A car was vandalised and teenager Jacqueline Stuz (pictured) hit over the head
with a metal pole before her father Andrew (also pictured) was also assaulted.

The men, one of whom was said to be armed with a lock knife and a cordless
drill, then allegedly barged their way into the flat and threatened the
occupants before stealing unknown items and fleeing.

Seven police units, including officers armed with Taser guns, and  a dog handler
were called to the scene of the incident which happened at about 10.10pm on
Tuesday.

Police cordoned off the Heathfield area and up towards Chudleigh Knighton.

One man was arrested at about 10.30pm near to the scene and the police
helicopter was scrambled to help locate another two suspects who were found
heading in the direction of Chudleigh Knighton.

The sniffer dog was deployed before one man was detained on the B3344 road near
Chudleigh Knighton and a third man was arrested on the A38 Chudleigh slip road
just after midnight.

A discarded hammer and a cordless drill were also found in a nearby field.

Yesterday, residents living at Haytor View described the event as something out
of the Al Capone era.

Father of five Andrew Stuz, 42,  said: "My oldest children came downstairs
because they had heard smashing glass and were scared stiff. I went outside to
see what was going on and three lads ran around the corner smashing windows on
the ground floor flat next door.

"I asked them what they were doing and they just attacked us. My daughter was
hit over the head with a steel bar and I was then hit on the arm."

Another resident, who did not want to be named, said: "I heard screams and glass
smashing. We were petrified. I thought they were going to kill us. It was like
something out of an Al Capone movie."

Police confirmed they received a 'number of calls' from worried residents who
heard the commotion and described it as 'bedlam'.

Insp Ian Curson said: "We were called to an on-going incident of disorder. When
we arrived there were a number of windows which had been smashed on the ground
floor. Allegations were made that the offenders had stolen some items from the
property and threatened the occupants.

"We recovered a small lock knife from one suspect and found a drill and a hammer
which the dog handler found 40 yards away in a nearby field. These items may or
may not be connected to the crime."

Insp Curson said the flat was in 'disarray' following the attack and an interior
door had been badly damaged.

A spokesman for South Western Ambulance Trust said: "We were called at 10.39pm.
Paramedics treated a 15-year-old girl for a head injury at the scene, she was
not conveyed to hospital."

A 20 year old man has been arrested on suspicion of aggravated burglary and
possession of an offence weapon. Two other men, aged 17 and 18, were arrested on
suspicion of aggravated burglary.

All three men were taken to Torquay Police Station for questioning.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2008 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 23, 2008 Thursday

Five Colombian terrorist attacks in Bogota leave 11 people injured

LENGTH: 252 words


Text of report by privately-owned, nationwide Colombian Caracol radio website on
23 October

[Report: "Increase of Terrorist Activity in Bogota Leaves 11 People Injured,
Property Damage"]

Bogota registered an increase in terrorist activity when five explosive devices
went off in different parts of the city at midday today.

Bogota Metropolitan Police Commanders General Rodolfo Palomino confirmed that
the first device exploded on 80th Street and Sixth Avenue, injuring two people -
Mr Deogracias Martinez, 67 and Jorge Alberto Tellez, 36. The two were workers of
the ASEO Capital company and were handling a bag when the medium-powered
explosion took place. They were taken to the Country Clinic where the medical
report states that they suffered soft tissue lesions on their faces and upper
extremities.

The second explosion took place at the Salitre Plaza Shopping Centre, injuring
three people who were taken to the Colombia Clinic.

The third device exploded on 138th Street and Seventh Avenue near a recreational
park, injuring one person who was taken to El Bosque Clinic and shattering
several nearby window panes. The device was placed behind the Palatino shopping
centre.

A fourth explosion took place on 99th Street and Ninth Avenue, injuring two
people. There is no information yet as to which clinic they were taken to.

The last device exploded on 102d street and 21st Avenue, injuring two people who
were later taken to the Santa Fe Clinic.

Source: Colombian Caracol radio website, Bogota, in Spanish 23 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 24, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

Car bombs would have fired gas canister over half a mile, court told;
'Loose wiring and too much fuel thwarted terror attack on London nightclub'

BYLINE: James Read

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 360 words


Gas canisters packed inside two car bombs in the heart of London's West End
could have been propelled up to half a mile if they had exploded, a court heard
yesterday.

Dr Bilal Abdulla, 29, and Kafeel Ahmed, 28, parked the vehicles, loaded with
gas, petrol and hundreds of nails, after preparing them in a "bomb factory" in a
Glasgow suburb, jurors were told. But the home-made bombs failed to go off
because there was so much fuel inside the vehicles that it "snuffed out" any
potential explosion.

Dr Abdulla is on trial at Woolwich Crown Court with a second medic, Dr Mohammad
Asha, 28, who is accused of helping Dr Abdulla and Mr Ahmed plot terrorist
attacks last summer. Mr Ahmed died of his injuries after an attack on Glasgow
airport a day after the failed attacks in London. Loose wiring in a mobile
phone, which was part of an improvised detonator inside the cars, also rendered
the London bombs ineffective, the court heard. A forensic fire investigator,
Eric Leung, said the fuel-air mix was too rich to spark a blast, even though one
of the detonators did fire in one of the cars.

Dr Abdulla parked a green Mercedes packed with almost 900 nails, two full 13kg
patio gas canisters and more than 100 litres of fuel outside the Tiger Tiger
nightclub in Haymarket on 29 June last year, the prosecution said. Mr Ahmed's
blue Mercedes was left nearby with the same fuel mix and 1,000 nails inside.

Had the bombs gone off, huge petrol containers in the boot could have melted and
the leaking fuel would have increased the ferocity of the blaze, Mr Leung said.
He added: "The [gas] cylinders may fragment in to more than one piece or may
stay in one piece. Both those pieces could be projected over significant
distances. I have seen some examples where fragments of cylinders have been
ejected fully half a mile."

After the failed attacks, Dr Abdulla and Mr Ahmed drove a Jeep Cherokee packed
with explosives in to the terminal at Glasgow airport. Mr Ahmed died and Dr
Abdulla was arrested.

Dr Asha, a Jordanian, of Newcastle-under-Lyme, and Dr Abdulla, an Iraqi, of
Paisley, deny conspiracy to murder and cause explosions likely to endanger life.
The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS



             PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: WEST MIDLANDS

                      October 24, 2008 Friday 3:30 PM BST

WATCHING TERRORIST ATTACK NEWS FOOTAGE 'MADE DOCTOR ILL'

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 183 words


A man accused of a terrorist plot went quiet and looked ill as he saw TV news of
the attack on Glasgow Airport while at a house in Newcastle-under-Lyme, a court
has heard.

Dr Mohammed Asha, 28, watched footage of the burning jeep with friend Mohammed
Nizam on June 30 last year.

The colleagues sat with their wives and Asha's young son in Dr Nizam's house.

Dr Nizam told Woolwich Crown Court on Friday that as time went on Asha seemed
distracted and eventually he drove him home.

``In retrospect I think he looked very poorly or something,'' Dr Nizam said.

``When we were there (Asha's house) we were invited in for a cup of tea. He
didn't say very much and he looked very tired.''

Asha disappeared upstairs for about 10 minutes, the jury heard, and was ``hardly
talking''.

The prosecution claim that Kafeel Ahmed, 28, and Asha's co-defendant Bilal
Abdulla, 29, had driven a jeep packed with gas canisters and petrol into a
terminal building at the airport. Ahmed died a month later from burns.

Dr Nizam described Asha as a devout Muslim, and the pair would pray together
every Friday, the court was told. end

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                      October 24, 2008 Friday 3:04 PM BST

WATCHING TERROR ATTACK TV COVERAGE 'MADE DOCTOR ILL'

BYLINE: Margaret Davis, PA

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 404 words


A doctor accused of a terrorist plot went quiet and looked ill as he saw TV news
of the attack on Glasgow Airport, a court heard today.

Dr Mohammed Asha, 28, watched footage of the burning jeep with friend Mohammed
Nizam on June 30 last year.

The colleagues sat with their wives and Asha's young son in Dr Nizam's house in
Newcastle-under-Lyme.

Dr Nizam told Woolwich Crown Court as time went on Asha seemed distracted and
eventually he drove him home.

Dr Nizam said: ``In retrospect I think he looked very poorly or something. When
we were there (Asha's house) we were invited in for a cup of tea. He didn't say
very much and he looked very tired.''

Asha disappeared upstairs for around 10 minutes, the jury heard, and was
``hardly talking''.

The prosecution said that Kafeel Ahmed, 28, and Asha's co-defendant Bilal
Abdulla, 29, had driven a jeep packed with gas canisters and petrol into a
terminal building at Glasgow Airport. Ahmed died a month later from burns.

Today Dr Nizam described Asha as a ``devout'' Muslim, and the pair would pray
together every Friday, the court was told.

The medics met at Shrewsbury Hospital in 2005 and the following year both moved
to Newcastle-under-Lyme to work there.

In the week before Asha's arrest, Dr Nizam told the jury his friend seemed
preoccupied because he had not been paid that month.

Asha's General Medical Council registration had lapsed between April 14 and May
29 and staff at University Hospital, North Staffordshire, told him he would not
be paid for his work during that period.

The jury heard that his net salary in May was £2,412.05, but in June he was paid
nothing.

Despite this, it is alleged that Asha gave Abdullah £1,300 to fund terror
attacks in Glasgow and London.

Two car bombs were planted outside the Tiger Tiger nightclub and in Cockspur
Street in the capital's West End.

The devices failed to go off because mobile detonators did not work, the jury
has heard.

Prosecuting, Jonathan Laidlaw QC told the court that Asha failed to answer his
pager at work on June 29 because he was meeting alleged conspirators Ahmed and
Abdullah.

He was sent a message by a nurse on the renal ward at 5.36pm that day but failed
to answer, the jury heard.

But defending, Stephen Kamlish QC said it was common for doctors to ignore
non-urgent ``bleeps'' unless they were messaged a second time.

Asha and Abdullah are accused of conspiracy to murder and to cause explosions.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            October 27, 2008 Monday

Lessons in how to deal with terror attack

BYLINE: Keith Findlay

SECTION: BUSINESS; OTHERS; General; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 203 words


A TRAINING event in Aberdeen early next year will see senior staff from
north-east businesses being put through a mock terror attack as part of a
two-day continuity planning course.

The gathering - the fourth in a series - has been arranged by the Robert Gordon
University (RGU) in Aberdeen, in partnership with Grampian Police.

On completing the training, which is accredited by security industry skills body
Skills for Security, participants get an RGU certificate for continuous
professional development.

The courses are aimed at "key co-ordinators" for business continuity planning -
people who have responsibility for ensuring good procedures are in place for
handling any threats to their companies.

Participants at the previous event in August included bosses from a wide range
of firms, with management responsibilities in areas including facilities,
security, health and safety, and training.

In addition to the mock terror attack, the course taking place at RGU's business
school on January 20 and 21 will feature a presentation on the current terrorism
threat in the UK.

Places at the January event, which cost £350 per participant, are limited.
Contact Moira Bailey at RGU via m.m.bailey@rgu.ac.uk or on 01224 263139.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2008 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 27, 2008 Monday

East Turkey police point attacked by "terrorists"

LENGTH: 308 words


Text of report by Turkish privately-owned, mass-circulation daily Hurriyet
website on 24 October

An attack with long-barreled weapons has been staged by PKK terrorists against a
police point in the Esentepe section of Tunceli where Special Operations Teams
were on duty.

It is stated that, when police immediately returned fire, two of the PKK members
were wounded. The area where the terrorists were located has been bombed by
Super Cobra type helicopters.

In Tunceli, where Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan will visit his party's
central district and take part in various inaugural activities tomorrow, PKK
terrorists conducted an attack with long-barreled weapons at about 6:00 p.m.
this evening against a police point.

Fire was returned instantly to the terrorists' attack from the point, termed
K.4, which is 1.5 kilometres from the town centre in Yenimahalle, and where
Special Operations Teams are on duty to provide security from the town's high
points. The clash between the security forces and the PKK members continued
intensely for approximately an hour. The sounds of weapons were heard from the
centre of the town, and Gendarmerie and police personnel who came to reinforce
the area fired illumination flares at the areas where the terrorists were
located.

Subjected to heavy fire, the PKK members took their wounded comrades with them
and fled towards the forested areas of Sutluce village, while Super Cobra type
helicopters equipped with night vision devices, which took off from the Tunceli
Gendarmerie Regional Command, bombed the areas where the terrorists were
located. Operations to neutralize the terrorists continue, while the
comprehensive security precautions taken because of the arrival of Prime
Minister Erdogan were raised to the highest level throughout the night.

Source: Hurriyet website, Istanbul, in Turkish 24 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      October 27, 2008 Monday 05:34 PM GMT

Syria accuses US of terrorism after attack kills eight

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 416 words


America was accused of "terrorism" today after its special forces raided alleged
al-Qaida fighters sheltering inside the supposed safety of Syria.

The attack killed eight people and Syria immediately claimed all were innocent
victims and included women and children, but journalists at their funerals today
saw only men's bodies.

A US military official in Washington confirmed the attack was aimed at the
network of al-Qaida-linked foreign fighters moving through Syria into Iraq.

"We are taking matters into our own hands," he said.

The Syrian government said four US helicopters attacked a civilian building
under construction shortly before dusk on Sunday in the village of Sukkariyeh,
about five miles inside the border.

Syria's foreign minister, Walid al-Moallem, described the raid as an act of
"criminal and terrorist aggression".

The attack is another sign that the United States is aggressively launching
military raids across the borders of Afghanistan and Iraq to destroy insurgent
sanctuaries.

It came just days after the commander of US forces in western Iraq said American
troops were redoubling efforts to secure the Syrian border, which he called an
"uncontrolled" gateway for fighters entering Iraq.

A Syrian government statement said eight people were killed, including a man and
his four children and a woman. However, local officials said seven men were
killed and two other people were wounded, including a woman among the injured.

One journalist at the funerals in the village's cemetery saw the bodies of seven
men - none of them children.

Syria's foreign minister Walid al-Muallem was in Britain today and scrapped
plans to hold a joint news conference with British counterpart David Miliband.

Some Iraqi officials warned that the attack could be used by opponents of a
security pact under negotiation with the United States.

"Now neighbouring countries have a good reason to be concerned about the
continued US presence in Iraq," prominent Kurdish politician Mahmoud Othman
said.

The attack came as the flow of foreign fighters into Iraq has been declining.
The area targeted is near the Iraqi border city of Qaim, which had been a major
crossing point for fighters, weapons and money coming into Iraq to fuel the
Sunni insurgency.

Ninety percent of the foreign fighters enter through Syria, according to US
intelligence. Foreigners are some of the most deadly fighters in Iraq, trained
in bomb-making and with small-arms expertise and more likely to be willing
suicide bombers than Iraqis.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday

Pakistan tightens security in Quetta after terror attack

LENGTH: 177 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Quetta [Baluchistan Province], [Monday] 27 October: The provincial government
put security on high alert in the wake of the blast which killed two people and
injured 12 others in the provincial metropolis on Monday, police sources told
APP. The concerned senior police officials have been directed to tighten the
security at all important public and private places in the city. Police,
Baluchistan Constabulary, Anti-Terrorist Force and Frontier Corps personnel have
increased their patrolling here at main bazaars, commercial areas and roads
where main public offices are located in order to avert any untoward incident
and pre-empt any eventuality in the valley. CCPO [Capital City Police Officer],
Quetta, Muhammad Akbar Araeen said that law-enforcement agencies had been put on
high alert at all entry and exit points of the city to check all vehicles
leaving and entering the provincial capital.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1541gmt
27 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

US admits raiding Syria to kill terrorist leader;
Damascus condemns the special forces daylight attack as 'an act of criminal and
terrorist aggression' Iraqi government supports mission but Syria says it will
repulse future attacks to protect its sovereignty

BYLINE: Patrick Cockburn

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1037 words


Senior US officials claimed last night that the head of a Syrian network
responsible for smuggling foreign fighters, weapons and cash into Iraq had been
killed in Syria during a raid by US special forces that sparked strong
condemnation from Damascus.

The Syrian foreign minister, Walid al-Moualem said the raid had killed eight
civilians and was an act of "criminal and terrorist aggression." Speaking at a
news conference in London, he warned that Damascus would defend itself against
any such future attack.

Sunday's raid, 10km from the Iraqi border, took place in daylight and therefore
was "not a mistake," he said.

The rare attack into Syria marks an unexpected expansion of the war in Iraq and
comes as the level of fighting drops to its lowest level for four years.

"We are taking matters into our own hands," said a US officer in Washington,
confirming that American commandos had entered Syria on Sunday evening to attack
a network of guerrillas linked to al-Qa'ida.

A US counter-terrorism official claimed that the target of the raid was an Iraqi
smuggler called Abu Ghadiya who enabled fighters to cross the Syria-Iraq border.
One official said the man had been killed in the compound which had come under
attack.

He said Abu Ghadiya was the nom de guerre of Badran Turki Hisham al-Mazididih, a
native of Mosul and an aide of al-Qa'ida's Iraqi leader, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi,
who was killed two years ago. The official told the Associated Press that Abu
Ghadiya had been the head of the single most important foreign fighter cell that
had bedevilled Iraq since the US invasion in 2003.

Syria said that four US helicopters had carried out the raid on a construction
site near the Syrian village of Sukkariyeh, 8km from the Iraq border.

Eight men had been killed and two wounded, local officials said. TV images
showed a small fenced farm and a truck riddled with bullet holes. There was also
a building site and a tent with food and blankets. Spent bullets were scattered
around.

In Baghdad the Iraqi government spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh said, justifying the
raid, that it was launched against "terrorist groups operating from Syria
against Iraq", including one which was responsible or the deaths of 13 police
recruits. He said: "Iraq had asked Syria to hand over this group, which uses
Syria as a base for its terrorist activities." It is not clear that the US
informed the Iraqi government before making its attack.

In Sukkariyeh, a villager named Jumad Ahmad al-Hamad said he had seen four
helicopters, two of which landed. "Shooting then started and rang out for 10
minutes." When the helicopters had left, he and other villagers had gone to the
site and found the bodies of his uncle, Dawoud al-Hamad, and four of his uncle's
sons.

The area is near the Syrian border-crossing of Abu Kamal. It is on the Euphrates
river and the main road from Iraq to Syria. It has been used by insurgents
entering Iraq since the US invasion and it is not clear why the US military
decided to attack it now.

Mr al-Moualem, said that Syria would ask the US and Iraq to investigate the
attack. He said that the US charge d'affaires had told the Syrian government she
had "no information".

In response to American charges that al-Qa'ida fighters were still crossing into
Iraq from Syria, Mr al-Moualem said the US had never provided evidence to back
up the claims.

Villagers in Sukkariyeh buried their dead yesterday, chanting anti-American
slogans and carrying banners reading: "Down with Bush and the American enemy."

Iraqi leaders have long maintained that al-Qa'ida could not operate in Syria
without the powerful Syrian intelligence service knowing what they were doing.
Top Iraqi officials say they can confirm this from personal experience because
many of them, such as the prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki, were based for many
years in Syria before the fall of Saddam Hussein in 2003.

Washington initially refused to confirm or deny reports of the attack but,
later, an official told Reuters: "It was a successful operation. He [Ghadiya] is
believed to be dead. He had knowledge of many of the so-called 'rat lines' or
smuggling routes."

President Bush assented to carrying the war against America's enemies in the
Middle East by backing covert cross-border operations in a presidential finding
earlier this year. This secret directive, for which Congress made an outlay of
$300m, promised backing for covert attacks by non-US forces from Lebanon to
Afghanistan.

The timing of the raid is unexpected as Syria has been more co-operative with
the US. In the early stages of the war in Iraq, the Syrian government believed
that if the US succeeded in establishing its hegemony in Baghdad, it would try
to remove the anti-American governments in Syria and Iran.

It also felt that the US and its allies were undermining its position in
Lebanon. But the US failures in Iraq and Syria's stronger position in Lebanon
has meant that Syria is now warier of anti-American insurgent groups in Syria.
In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the Baathist regime was the target of extreme
Sunni fundamentalists. The US and the Iraqi government have made pinprick
attacks against each other in the past.

Syria blamed a bomb attack in Damascus earlier this year on Iraq, saying that
the GMC truck containing the explosives had crossed the border from Iraq. All
Syrian personnel at border posts were dismissed for failing to detect it.
Officially, Syria denies it is a haven for insurgents. The interior minister,
Bassam Abdel Majeed, said Damascus "refuses to be a launching pad for threats
against Iraq."

The US is likely to pay a heavy political price for the cross-border raids in
terms of Syrian and Pakistani anger, but government retaliation is not likely in
either case. A raid into Iran would be different; the Iranians have retaliated
swiftly for attacks on their personnel in Iraq. The raid may also intensify
Iranian hostility to the Iraqi-US Status of Forces Agreement. "It will be used
against the agreement and will give the Iranians reason to increase their
interference against [it]," said the Iraqi political veteran Mahmoud Othman.

"The neighbouring countries now have good reason to be concerned about the US
presence in Iraq."

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 28

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday
                     London and all shared stories Edition

SYRIA FURIOUS AT TERRORIST ATTACK BY US

BYLINE: JOEL TAYLOR

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 213 words


A RAID which killed eight people in a Syrian village was an act of terrorism by
the US, the countrys foreign minister said yesterday.

Syria claimed four American military helicopters landed and forces then attacked
workmen and women near the border with Iraq on Sunday.

The Americans do it in the daylight, this means it is not a mistake its blunt
determination, Walid al-Muallem said. We consider this criminal and terrorist
aggression. Mr al-Muallem was due to appear with foreign secretary David
Miliband for a joint press conference in London but took the stage alone to vent
his anger. The incident has inflamed already tense relations between Washington
which has refused to comment and Damascus. Forces attacked a farm outside the
eastern city of Abu Kamal, regarded by the US as a crossing point for money,
weapons and fighters to fuel the insurgency in Iraq.

This is an outrageous crime and an act of aggression. If the US has proof of any
insurgency instead of applying the law of the jungle it should share this
information, Syrian envoy Jihad Makdissi told the BBC. This administration has
no respect for international law or human rights.An unnamed US official said it
had mounted a successful operation against foreign fighters who had been
threatening its forces in Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hurt: A victim of the raid Grief: Villagers mourn relatives killed
during the raid near the eastern Syrian city of Abu Kamal Picture: AFP/Getty

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Dublin Edition

US ATTACK ON SYRIA AN ACT OF TERRORISM

BYLINE: ROBERT DEX

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 294 words


SYRIAs foreign minister has accused America of carrying out an act of terrorism
after eight people were killed in a raid on a small village.

Eyewitnesses say US military helicopters landed and a soldier attacked
civilians, including children, during the assault near the border with Iraq on
Sunday.

Syrian foreign minister Walid al-Muallem said the attack on the Bou Kamal border
area was no accident.

The Americans do it in the daylight, this means it is not a mistake; its blunt
determination, Walid al-Muallem told a press conference in London yesterday.

He added: We consider this criminal and terrorist aggression. Mr al-Muallem also
confirmed that Syria would ask America and Iraq for an inquiry into the attack.

The minister had been due to appear alongside UK foreign secretary David
Miliband but it was agreed he would take to the stage by himself as the
political storm hit.

Americas alleged action has inflamed already-tense relations between Washington
and Damascus.

The US accuses Syria of not doing enough to stop al-Qaeda fighters and other
insurgents crossing into Iraq.

However, Syrian envoy Jihad Makdissi rejected that claim.

This is an outrageous crime and an act of aggression. If the US has proof of any
insurgency instead of applying the law of the jungle it should share this
information, he said.

This administration have proved to be irrational and has no respect for
international law or human rights. America would only confirm last night that
the incident took place. Mr Makdissi added: We expect a clarification, and Syria
reserves the right to respond accordingly and in the proper way. Syria has
summoned the US charge daffaires in Damascus to protest.A planned meeting
between Mr Miliband and Mr al-Muallem went ahead after the press conference.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fury: Syrias Walid al-Muallem

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

SYRIA CLAIMS ATTACK IS US 'TERRORISM';
WAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 151 words


SYRIA accused America of a terrorist attack yesterday after saying a helicopter
raid on its territory left eight civilians dead.

Iraq's neighbour said four US aircraft swooped on a farm eight miles inside its
border and US soldiers stormed a building there.

Washington refused to to say whether its forces were involved but an unnamed
source said the strike was against fighters threatening troops in Iraq.

The US accuses Syria of failing to stop al-Qaeda fighters crossing into Iraq to
attack British and American forces.

But Syrian foreign minister Walid al-Moualem told a news conference in London:
"We consider this criminal and terrorist aggression."

And he warned: "If they do it again, we will defend our territories."

Mr al-Moualem claimed a father and his four children and a woman were among the
dead.

But at the funerals yesterday, an Associated Press photographer said he saw the
bodies of seven men.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday
                                 1 Star Edition

SYRIA CLAIMS ATTACK IS US 'TERRORISM';
WAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 110 words


SYRIA accused America of a terrorist attack yesterday after saying a helicopter
raid on its territory left eight civilians dead.

Iraq's neighbour said four US aircraft swooped on a farm eight miles inside its
border and US soldiers stormed a building there.

Washington refused to to say whether its forces were involved but an unnamed
source said the strike was against fighters threatening troops in Iraq.

But Syrian minister Walid al-Moualem said: "We consider this criminal and
terrorist aggression."

Mr al-Moualem also claimed that civilians were among the dead. But at the
funerals yesterday an Associated Press photographer said he saw the bodies of
seven men.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM Funeral yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            October 28, 2008 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

world news bulletin: US attack in Syria 'an act of terrorism'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 113 words


SYRIA'S Foreign Minister yesterday condemned a US Special Forces raid on his
country's territory as an act of "criminal and terrorist aggression".

Walid Al-Muallem, who was in London for talks with Foreign Secretary David
Miliband, said the American Government needed to provide an explanation for the
attack.

Up to eight people were reported to have been killed in the raid by US forces
crossing over the border from Iraq.

Mr Al-Muallem said the dead included a father and three children from the same
family.

"All of them are civilian, unarmed, and they are on Syrian territory," he said.

The Americans said the raid had been targeting al Qaeda-linked foreign fighters.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 30, 2008 Thursday

Azeri MP says ethnic activist in Iran killed in "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 141 words


A member of the Azerbaijani parliament has said that an ethnic Azerbaijani
rights activist in Iran was killed in a "terrorist attack" staged by that
country's authorities, APA news agency reported on 30 October.

Qulamrza Amani died in a road accident on the Ahar-Tabriz road in Iran on 24
October.

Sabir Rustamxanli, who is also a co-chairman of the World Azerbaijanis'
Congress, was speaking during a commemoration ceremony for Amani in Baku.

He also said that lack of education in their mother tongue for more than 30m
ethnic Azerbaijanis living in Iran was against Islamic and international laws.

Speaking at the ceremony, the chairman of the opposition Classic People's Front
of Azerbaijan Party, Mirmahmud Miralioglu, called the Iranian government an
"anti-Islamic structure".

Source: Azerbaijani news agency APA, Baku, in Azeri 1300 gmt 30 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           October 30, 2008 Thursday

US Department of State: Somalia Condemnation of Terrorist Attacks

LENGTH: 175 words


RDATE:30102008

The United States condemns the terrorist attacks in Somaliland and Puntland. We
offer our sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims. These
senseless attacks highlight the determination of violent extremists to undermine
peace and stability throughout Somalia and the Horn of Africa.

The United States continues to support the efforts of all those working to
transform the region through a commitment to democratic and representative
governance, economic recovery, and lasting peace and reconciliation. The actions
of a small minority of violent extremists bent on continued chaos and
destruction will not be allowed to defeat the desire and aspirations of the
Somali people for lasting peace and stability.

CONTACT: US Department of State WWW: http://www.state.gov

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           October 30, 2008 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Court told airport terror attack accused 'joked about martyrdom'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 351 words


A COURT has heard that a doctor accused of planning terror attacks said his
co-accused joked about "martyrdom" and was "sympathetic" to insurgents in Iraq.

Taped police interviews in which Dr Mohammed Asha made comments the day after an
attempted car bombing on Glasgow Airport in June last year were shown to a jury
at Woolwich Crown Court.

In the videos, Asha said Dr Bilal Abdulla was "very, very sympathetic" with what
is going on in Iraq.

Asha, 28, and Abdulla, 29, are both on trial accused of conspiracy to murder and
conspiracy to cause explosions.

Yesterday, the court was shown video tapes of four police interviews in which
Asha repeatedly said he knew nothing of the attempted bombings of the airport
and London's West End.

But Asha did admit that Abdulla, from Paisley, had been to his home on several
occasions with another man - Indian student Kafeel Ahmed.

Asha said that, on these visits, Abdulla and Ahmed discussed martyrdom but in a
way that was "very, very playful."

A detective asked: "Did he say to you that he wanted to commit martyrdom?"

Asha replied: "Yes."

The Jordanian doctor also told detectives: "He hasn't mentioned anything
specific but he's always, always talked about Iraq and martyrdom."

Asha said there was no mention of targets and he did not believe his friend was
actually planning an attack.

The court was told the interviews took place before Asha was offered the chance
to speak to a solicitor.

His barrister, Stephen Kamlish QC, accused detectives of denying Asha his
rights.

The jury heard that, once he had taken legal advice, Asha was interviewed a
further four times over 10 days but did not answer any more questions.

Asha was arrested on the M6 motorway on June 30 last year.

Several hours earlier, a Jeep laden with gas canisters and petrol was driven
into Glasgow Airport's main terminal building.

Ahmed was at the wheel and died several weeks later from severe burns.

The jury has been told that Abdulla was in the passenger seat, threw petrol
bombs and fought with police.

Both Asha and Abdulla deny the charges and the trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 31, 2008 Friday

Somaliland authorities commence probe into terror attacks

LENGTH: 282 words


Text of report in English entitled "Somaliland police search for clues after
terror attacks" published by Somali pro-Puntland government Garoweonline website
on 30 October

Authorities in Somalia's self declared Republic of Somaliland are searching for
clues following Wednesday's [29 October] triple suicide bombings that killed at
least 23 people, Radio Garowe reported.

More than 35 people were wounded in the separatist region's capital, Hargeysa,
after suicide bombers struck the presidential palace, the UNDP office and the
Ethiopian trade office.

On Thursday, the dead bodies of two Ethiopian nationals were transported back to
their home country.

Abdullahi Ismail Irro, Somaliland's internal affairs minister, told reporters on
Thursday that local police were still searching for clues amongst the wreckage.

He linked the suicide bombings to explosions in April that rocked the parliament
building in Somaliland, a relatively peaceful in Somalia's northwest.

The minister said police had captured suspects, but did not provide a number. He
also stated that some of the suspects were "from south Somalia," where
Islamist-led insurgents are battling Ethiopian-backed government forces.

"They were in Hargeysa for about one week," said the minister, while indicating
that police were searching the suspects' rented home for more evidence.

Security was tightened in and around Hargeysa with hundreds of government
soldiers patrolling city streets and setting up security checkpoints, where
vehicles were searched.

Somaliland declared independence in 1991 after warlords overthrew a 21-year
military dictatorship but has not been recognized internationally.

Source: Garoweonline.com in English 30 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 31, 2008 Friday

Tenerife terror: Vulture attacks holidaymaker

BYLINE: Helen Pidd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 215 words


She had no doubt taken precautions against sunburn and been warned about
timeshare touts. But nothing could have prepared Mary Corcoran for the attack by
a vulture during her Tenerife holiday.

The 56-year-old from Ipswich told yesterday how she feared she was going to be
eaten alive when the metre-long griffon vulture pinned her to the ground while
she was watching a birds of prey show on the island. She was taken to hospital
for antibiotics and a tetanus jab after the vulture attacked her and a friend,
Teresa Largent, at Tenerife's Jungle Park zoo.

The vulture, which has a wingspan of 2.5 metres (8ft) and weighs between six and
13kg, was eventually punched off by its keeper.

The attack happened on Sunday as the women were watching the show in the park's
arena. "We had been told not to move, so we sat still," Corcoran said yesterday.
"Then the bird went for me, and perched on my shoulder and before I knew it, I
was under it. The keeper came over and got the bird away, but as he was taking
me out of the arena it flew back towards me and the keeper had to thump it
really hard to the ground.

"I was shaking and shaking. I couldn't speak about it for a few days afterwards.
I've never known any shock like it." She said she was hoping to claim
compensation for the zoo's "negligence".

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS




                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            October 31, 2008 Friday

UN: Security Council, in Presidential statement, strongly condemns 'heinous'
terrorist attack on United Nations, government offices in Somalia

LENGTH: 555 words


RDATE:30102008

The Security Council this afternoon condemned in the strongest terms yesterday's
terrorist suicide attacks in Somalia that targeted the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and government offices, causing numerous deaths and
injuries.

Through a statement read out by Zhang Yesui of China, which holds the Council's
presidency for October, Council members also underlined the need to bring to
justice the perpetrators and enablers of what it called "heinous" attacks, which
occurred in the towns of Hargeysa and Bosasso, and appeared to have been
coordinated.

Noting with appreciation that some of the injured were being treated at the
French medical centre in Djibouti, the Council expressed its deepest sympathy to
victims of the attacks and their families.

The meeting, which opened at 12:35 p.m., closed at 12:43 p.m.

Presidential Statement

The full text of the presidential statement (contained in document
S/PRST/2008/41) reads as follows:

"The Security Council condemns in the strongest terms the terrorist suicide
attacks that occurred in the towns of Hargeysa and Bosasso in Somalia, on 29
October 2008. These heinous attacks, which caused numerous deaths and injuries
and appear to have been coordinated, targeted the compound of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) and Ethiopian Government office, as well as local
government offices.

"The Security Council expresses its deepest sympathy and condolences to the
victims of these attacks and to their families, and to the people and
authorities of Somalia and Ethiopia. It notes with appreciation that some of the
victims are being treated at the French medical centre in Djibouti.

"The Security Council commends United Nations personnel for their action on the
ground on Somalia, in support of the Somali population.

"The Security Council underlines the need to bring the perpetrators, organizers,
financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice and
urges all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law
and resolution 1373 (2001) and consistent with resolution 1624 (2005), to
cooperate actively with the authorities of Somalia in this regard.

"The Security Council reaffirms that terrorism in all its forms and
manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by
whomsoever committed.

"The Security Council further reaffirms the need to combat by all means, in
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, threats to international
peace and security caused by terrorist acts. The Council reminds States that
they must ensure that any measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all
their obligations under international law, in particular international human
rights, refugee and humanitarian law.

"The Security Council reiterates its determination to combat all forms of
terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the Charter of the
United Nations."

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information provided within
M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2
PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web.
Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSWIRE

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2008 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            October 31, 2008 Friday

Maggie scoops £100,000 of competition prizes;
A Woman hurt in the London terrorist attacks has found an unusual way to afford
the finer things in life after she was left unable to work.

BYLINE: SARAH FIRTH

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 445 words


Maggie Bermann, of Newthorpe, has enjoyed exotic holidays and luxury goods
thanks to the huge number of competitions she enters.

This month alone, the passionate 'comper' has won a boxset of the Mummy films,
Girls Aloud T-shirts, tickets to Legoland, a Barry M make-up set and a Guitar
Hero game for the Nintendo DS.

The former nurse fell and damaged her knee and back while helping injured people
in the panic following the July 2005 attacks.

Over the years she has won more than £100,000 worth of prizes through entering
competitions online and sending off postcards.

She said: "I enter about 1,000 competitions a month. I spend about an hour and
half a day doing it.

"It's fun - it's sort of my hobby.

Maggie, 45, is happy with even the smallest prize.

She said: "I really enjoy it and I'm pleased with anything I win. Even if it's a
fridge magnet I still get excited."

But Maggie said the credit crunch has caused other people to jump on the freebie
bandwagon.

"Since the economic downturn  the wins have started to taper off, as more people
are doing it," she said.

Maggie uses the website theprizefinder.com to help her hunt out prizes.

This year the site has seen a 25% jump in the number of people trying their
luck.

But few are  likely to be as enthusiastic as Maggie.

Maggie began 'comping' in 2001 but stepped up a gear after she was forced to
leave her job.

Her biggest win was a £50,000 luxury holiday to Dubai and Thailand from the
Radio Times, a competition she entered after husband Jeff said he would like to
visit the Arab state.

She said: "It was out of this world. In Dubai we stayed in the only seven-star
hotel and had a butler."

Maggie has also won a family holiday to Mexico, luxury UK breaks and
top-of-the-range electrical goods.

But her most prized possession, as an avid fan of boy band Blue, is a platinum
disc of band member Simon Webbe's debut solo album.

Maggie regularly meets up with other Notts compers to compare wins.

She said: "We are quite competitive with each other too. If someone else has won
a competition you've entered then you really want to win it as well."

Maggie said the group helps to keep her motivated when she goes through spells
without any wins.

"Even my postman is disappointed if he doesn't have a package for me," she said.

"When I get one he stays while I open it to see what it is."

But Maggie said the best thing about her competition addiction was being able to
treat her family.

She has two  sons, Scott, 21, and Andy, 14, and a daughter, 11-year-old Heather.

Maggie said: "To me comping means being able to give friends and family things I
could never otherwise afford, as I don't work anymore."

sarah.firth@nottinghameveningpost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2008 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            November 3, 2008 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

TEEN IN ROCKET ATTACK TERROR;
Campaigner Kirk becomes victim

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 405 words


A TEENAGER who is leading a campaign to save young lives by highlighting the
dangers of fireworks was left terrified when he was targeted in a rocket attack.

Youth activist Kris Sinclair was given the fright of his life when thugs
launched a firework at him from the window of a car as they drove by.

The 19-year-old is no stranger to the dangers posed by fireworks as he is
involved in creating a safety video for the Renfrewshire Youth Voice community
group.

But he admits he never expected to become a victim himself. Kris said: "It was
horrific and I'm still in a state of shock.

"I could easily have suffered terrible injuries. It's frightening that the
people who carry out attacks such as this obviously don't realise the damage
they could do.

"Sadly, I now know what it's like to be the victim of a firework attack and I
don't want anyone else to go through what I've had to suffer."

Kris, whose work to create a firework safety podcast is supported by Strathclyde
Fire and Rescue, was attacked as he walked along a busy road.

The teenager was near Woodlands Crescent, at its jucntion with Beith Road, in
Johnstone, when a red car with three young people inside pulled up beside him.

To his horror, a rocket was launched at him and it landed at his feet.

Kris, from Johnstone, said: "It was about 10.30pm and the street was quiet when,
all of a sudden, I saw a tube-like rocket being thrown from a passing car.

"I panicked because I thought it was going to explode in my face.

"The rocket blasted open and two smaller rocket-type missiles shot out of it and
whizzed past me.

"It's amazing that I didn't suffer a nasty injury. Rockets like these can be
lethal."

Kris, who plans to broadcast his firework safety video on the YouTube website,
added: "I'm horrified by what happened to me.

"I have put hundreds of hours of voluntary work into helping make the firework
season safer for young people and other people in the community and now I've
become a victim."

Police have vowed to step up patrols between now and the end of Bonfire Night in
a bid to prevent mindless yobs from targeting people with fireworks.

A spokesperson said: "Fireworks can cause appalling injuries if used without
care. We see evidence of that every year.

"The best way to enjoy fireworks is to attend a display that is run by expert
staff. If anyone is planning to set off their own fireworks, they should handle
these with caution."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TARGETED: Firework was fired at Kris Sinclair

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 4, 2008 Tuesday

Ethiopian police alert public to terror attack on country

LENGTH: 114 words


Excerpt from report by state-owned Ethiopian TV on 4 November

The National Intelligence and Security Services and Federal Police
Anti-Terrorism Joint Task Force has said the public should enhance its alertness
to prevent terrorism.

The task force said there was evidence at the moment that a plot has been
hatched to carry out a terror attack on our country, and asked the public to be
alert as ever and collaborate with security forces.

The task force also called on the public to report individuals of suspicious
character, and cooperate with the police in their duty to carry out searches.
[Passage omitted: Police hotlines]

Source: Ethiopian TV, Addis Ababa, in Amharic 1000 gmt 4 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            November 4, 2008 Tuesday
                                Nuneaton Edition

A pitbull mauled my staffie, too;
SAVAGED PETS: Terror dog matches description of Star's attacker

BYLINE: By Emma Chown

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 297 words


A COVENTRY woman believes a pitbull which viciously attacked a woman's dog is
the same one which savagely mauled her own dog.

Last week the Coventry Telegraph reported how Valerie O'Brian's dog, an
eight-year-old collie, was attacked in the War Memorial Park on October 17.

Christine Wood believes her dog, an 11-year-old staffie, Star, was attacked
eight months ago in a similar way by the same mottled brown-coloured bitch.

Retired Christine, aged 60, who lives in Henley Green, said: "The attack
happened by the side of my bungalow. My partner Jack had taken Star for a walk
along the walkway from Henley Green to Potters Green before the pitbull ran
after Star. Jack had Star on the lead - unlike the pitbull who was free to run
around.

"The pitbull latched on to my dog's head and attacked him. The woman that was
walking the bitch with another man was screaming, saying 'She's never done this
before!' "There was blood everywhere, it looked liked a murder had taken place.

"After the attack I rang the police but they said I needed to find the dog and
its owner. I would be interested to see if there is any CCTV footage of
Valerie's dog being attacked in the War Memorial Park so I could confirm that it
was the same dog, but the description fits exactly."

Star has been left with scars and wounds and needed several stitches in an
operation at a veterinary surgery after the attack.

Christine described the owner as a young man, aged about 26, who was walking
with a woman aged about 25.

She said: "I agree with Valerie, dog walkers need to be made aware of this
highly dangerous dog and his owner, I just hope he can be found because next
time the attack could be even worse."

Contact Chace Avenue police station on 0845 1135000 with information about the
incident or the pitbull owner.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DJ311008DOGS1 INFORMATION NEEDED... Jack Stansfield and Christine Wood
with their staffie, Star, who needed several stitches after she was attacked by
a pitbull near home. Picture: Joe Bailey

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily Record (PM) - UK

                            November 4, 2008 Tuesday
                                Tayside Edition

HE THREATENED TO KILL PAL FOR PLAYING GUITAR;
Ex-flatmate tells of row with airport terror attack accused

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 337 words


A MAN accused of trying to blow up Glasgow airport threatened to kill a flatmate
for playing the guitar, a court heard yesterday.

Devout Muslim Bilal Abdulla allegedly told him to "stop playing and start
praying".

Former friend Shiraz Maher told Woolwich Crown Court the exchange took place at
a flat in Cambridge in 2005.

The pair were students at the time and were working on computers when a third
man started to play guitar in another room.

Mr Maher said Abdulla gestured towards a violent video of an ambush of an
American Humvee vehicle in Iraq on his computer.

He said: "He made reference to one of those grisly, very grisly videos that
would come out of Iraq at that time.

"He said, 'I told him, you need to stop playing and start praying otherwise this
is what we do - we slaughter."' He added: "Immediately after saying it, Bilal
laughed heartily and I remember laughing as well.

"The reason it stayed so vividly in my memory was the degree to which it was
disproportionate." Mr Maher explained some strict Muslims would view string
instruments as "completely forbidden within Islam".

Abdulla, 29, is on trial with a second man, Mohammed Asha, 28, accused of
conspiracy to murder and to cause explosions. The two men, who worked as doctors
at hospitals in Glasgow and Stoke, deny the offences.

Abdulla drove one of two Mercedes car bombs to London's west end in June 2007,
the court has heard.

The next day, he was the passenger in a Jeep Cherokee, laden with gas cylinders
and petrol, that was rammed into Glasgow airport. His friend Kafeel Ahmed, who
drove the Jeep and died after the attack, had lived in the same Cambridge
property.

Yesterday, Mr Maher said Abdulla was the "dominant personality".

He also told the jury that Abdulla held extremist views and supported attacks on
the minority Shia population in Iraq.

He said one of Abdulla's friends had been murdered by Shia militia.

Mr Maher said:"For me, that seemed to put into context his real loathing of the
Shia."

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CLAIMS: Abdulla is said to have told flatmate to stop playing the
guitar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 5, 2008 Wednesday

Ethiopian police arrest suspects on "terrorist attacks" mission

LENGTH: 201 words


Text of report in English by state-owned Ethiopian news agency ENA website

Addis Ababa, 5 November: The Joint Task Force of National Intelligence Security
Service and the Federal Police said it has detained leaders of the Oromo
Liberation Front (OLF) who were plotting terrorist attacks in the metropolis.

The task force, in a statement it sent to ENA [Ethiopian News Agency] on
Wednesday [5 November], said the detainees were linked with leaders of OLF in
[the Eritrean capital] Asmara.

The detainees were mobilizing finance and dispatching illegal weapons as well as
recruiting members for their anti-peace activities. Some of the detainees were
also said to be involved in anti-peace activities under the guise of being
members of legal political parties like [opposition] Oromo Federalists
Democratic Movement and Oromo National Congress.

The task force has obtained various documents and weapons for exhibit.

Similarly, the task force announced that Kawerj, the self-styled extremist
group, has been operating to carry out terrorist attacks in the town under the
guise of religion.

The leaders of Kawerj are kept in custody with their documents and weapons.

Source: ENA website, Addis Ababa, in English 5 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           November 5, 2008 Wednesday

Girl, 15 in sex attack terror

BYLINE:  Jason Evans

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 77 words


A Teenage girl has been sexually assaulted  in a shocking late-night attack in a
Swansea park.

The 15-year old was in Manselton Park when the incident took place. Police have
launched a major operation to find the attacker.

A police spokesman said: "The victim is a 15-year-old female from Manselton.

"We know there were numerous people in the vicinity of Manselton Park and St
John's Road, and the police are looking for any witnesses, or information about
incident."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           November 5, 2008 Wednesday

Girl, 15 in sex attack terror

BYLINE: Jason Evans

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 77 words


A Teenage girl has been sexually assaulted  in a shocking late-night attack in a
Swansea park.

The 15-year old was in Manselton Park when the incident took place. Police have
launched a major operation to find the attacker.

A police spokesman said: "The victim is a 15-year-old female from Manselton.

"We know there were numerous people in the vicinity of Manselton Park and St
John's Road, and the police are looking for any witnesses, or information about
incident."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           November 5, 2008 Wednesday

Girl, 15 in sex attack terror

BYLINE: Jason Evans

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 77 words


A Teenage girl has been sexually assaulted  in a shocking late-night attack in a
Swansea park.

The 15-year old was in Manselton Park when the incident took place. Police have
launched a major operation to find the attacker.

A police spokesman said: "The victim is a 15-year-old female from Manselton.

"We know there were numerous people in the vicinity of Manselton Park and St
John's Road, and the police are looking for any witnesses, or information about
incident."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 6, 2008 Thursday

Russia: Blast in North Ossetia "terrorist attack" - investigation, 10 killed

LENGTH: 73 words


According to preliminary reports, 10 people died in an explosion that happened
near a shared taxi in Vladikavkaz on 6 November, Interfax news agency said on
the same day.

"It was a terrorist attack," a source in the investigations directorate of the
Investigations Committee under the Russian Prosecutor-General's Office for North
Ossetia told Interfax on 6 November.

Sources: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1231 and 1235 gmt 6 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           November 6, 2008 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

'Terror attack' fireball claim

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 310 words


GAS cylinders allegedly used in an attack on Glasgow Airport would have created
a "large fireball" had they exploded, a court heard yesterday.

The jury at Woolwich Crown Court was told that if the canisters, which were
packed in a Jeep, had blown up, strips of metal, nails and screws would have
been fired over a wide area.

Instead, the containers burned like "blowtorches", making them hard for fire
crews to extinguish, jurors were told.

The evidence was led during the trial of Paisley man Dr Bilal Abdulla, 29, and
Dr Mohammed Asha, 28, who deny conspiracy to murder.

The pair, both employed by the NHS, also deny charges of causing explosions
relating to the airport attack last summer.

Jurors heard evidence from a forensic scientist David Halliday, who studied the
remains of the Jeep Cherokee used in the alleged plot.

Mr Halliday said that, among other items, he found 10 petrol bombs crafted from
soft-drink bottles and NHS sheets and pillows which had been ripped up to act as
wicks.

He added that the items smelled strongly of petrol and contained a small
quantity of liquid, which was part petrol, part water and a small amount of oil.

Mr Halliday also inspected four liquid petroleum gas canisters after the
incident.

He found only the top of the cylinders had been fully exposed to fire and,
therefore, had not exploded, the court heard.

Mr Halliday said: "Clearly, in the circumstances that prevailed in Glasgow
Airport, the presence of propane cylinders has contributed to the severity of
fire.

"It is possible in some circumstances for propane cylinders to burst in a fire.

"The effects of that are that the cylinders rupture, breaking into one or more
large piece that is projected a considerable distance.

"The vapour cloud is mixed with air, which ignites and forms a large fireball."

The trial is expected to continue today.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           November 6, 2008 Thursday

Terror attack killed soldier

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 51 words


A Llanelli soldier died instantly when a roadside bomb exploded during an
operation in Iraq to defeat insurgents who had attacked security forces.

Lance Corporal Ryan "Franky" Francis (pictured), aged 23, was driving a Warrior
infantry fighting vehicle north of Basra on  July 7, 2007, an inquest has heard.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           November 6, 2008 Thursday

Terror attack killed soldier

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 51 words


A Llanelli soldier died instantly when a roadside bomb exploded during an
operation in Iraq to defeat insurgents who had attacked security forces.

Lance Corporal Ryan "Franky" Francis (pictured), aged 23, was driving a Warrior
infantry fighting vehicle north of Basra on  July 7, 2007, an inquest has heard.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           November 6, 2008 Thursday

Terror attack killed soldier

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 51 words


A Llanelli soldier died instantly when a roadside bomb exploded during an
operation in Iraq to defeat insurgents who had attacked security forces.

Lance Corporal Ryan "Franky" Francis (pictured), aged 23, was driving a Warrior
infantry fighting vehicle north of Basra on  July 7, 2007, an inquest has heard.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                                November 9, 2008

Home: News: Police warn of growing threat from eco-terrorists: Fear of deadly
attack by lone maverick as officers alert major firms to danger of green
extremism

BYLINE: Mark Townsend and Nick Denning

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 947 words


POLICE HAVE warned of the growing threat of eco-terrorism after revealing they
are investigating a group which has supporters who believe that reducing the
Earth's population by four-fifths will help to protect the planet.

Officers from a specialist unit dedicated to tackling domestic terrorism are
monitoring an eco-movement called Earth First! which has advocates who state
that cutting the Earth's population by 80 per cent will ease pressure on other
species. Officers are concerned a 'lone maverick' eco-extremist may attempt a
terrorist attack aimed at killing large numbers of Britons.

The National Extremism Tactical Co-ordination Unit, which collates intelligence
and advice to police forces, has revealed that eco-activists are researching a
list of target companies which they believe are major polluters or are
exacerbating the threat of climate change.

The unit is currently monitoring blogs and internet traffic connected to a
network of UK climate camps and radical environmental movements under the
umbrella of Earth First!, which has claimed responsibility for a series of
criminal acts in recent months.

A senior source at the unit said it had growing evidence of a threat from
eco-activists. 'We have found statements that four-fifths of the human
population has to die for other species in the world to survive.

'There are a number of very dedicated individuals out there and they could be
dangerous to other people.'

Earth First! says its mission is 'about direct action to halt the destruction of
the Earth' and advocates 'civil disobedience and monkeywrenching', tactics that
include sabotage and disruptive behaviour. The movement has links to US
environmental extremists which have waged a campaign of violence in America,
including the firebombing of a string of 4x4 car dealerships in California in
2003 and alleged arson attacks on other property.

The anti-extremist unit has already alerted a number of major companies which
have been accused of being carbon polluters with advice on how they can
withstand being targeted by eco-terrorists. Companies are thought to include
airport operator BAA an, international mining conglomerate BHP Billiton and
firms connected to UK coal-fired power stations.

'They are doing research of possible targets, looking at shareholders and
financiers. For example, they could research an airline and see how many of its
aircraft are not environmentally friendly,' said the NETCU source.

Although green extremists have yet to embark on an orchestrated campaign of
violence in the UK, officers warn that they may be about to launch a campaign of
intimidation and fear aimed at disrupting businesses. 'For some people, if they
can justify it in their minds, then it's a noble cause even if it's a criminal
action. They haven't started yet, but we believe they will come up with a
strategy and tactics,' said the source at the unit, who described the movement
as well-funded and organised.

A spate of recent attacks, for which Earth First! supporters have claimed
responsibility, has included vandalism of branches of seven German banks such as
Deutsche Bank and Allianz AG. The actions were apparently because the banks hold
shares in UK Coal, which plans to build new coal-fired power stations.

A statement on the Earth First! website explains the attacks by saying:
'Exploitation of the environment and people by the state and industry go hand in
hand. They cannot be separated and both must be attacked. Social war, not
climate chaos.'

Another attack hit a quarry in Staffordshire which belongs to Bardon Aggregates,
a company hat also owns a controversial quarry at Glensanda on the north-west
coast of Scotland. The Scottish quarry is accused of spoiling the Highlands
environment. The Earth First! website states: 'We slashed tyres, stripped paint
jobs, glued locks and trashed conveyor belts. All the earth movers were hit and
many of the cement and aggregate trucks. This action cost us very little but
should cost Bardon thousands.'

Among the network of groups under the Earth First! umbrella are various climate
camps. Last August police found a stash of knives and weapons beside one such
camp in Kent. Protesters, however, said they had nothing to do with the weapons
and accused police of launching a 'smear campaign'.

A spokesman for Derby Earth First! said the movement was strictly non-violent,
if not always law-abiding. He said: 'If someone does ecological damage we would
perhaps break the law and protect the ecology, but the ecology also includes
humans.

'We're all about communities. Capitalism is the problem and we want to return to
a more sustainable time. But we are not about reducing the population, that is
just scaremongering by the police.'

The rise of eco-extremism coincides with the fall of the animal rights activ ist
movement. Police said the animal rights movement was in 'disarray' and that its
ringleaders had either been prosecuted or were awaiting prosecution, adding that
its 'critical mass' of hardcore extremists was sufficiently depleted to have
halted its effectiveness. Last Thursday a prominent animal rights activist
accused of planting petrol bombs at Oxford University was cleared of possessing
an explosive substance with intent.

Reports on the Earth First! Journal website, which tells users how to send
encrypted emails, reveals connections to the Earth Liberation Front (ELF) which
has been linked to a series of violent attacks in the US. ELF was classified as
the top domestic terrorism threat in the US by the FBI in March 2001.

The ELF was founded in 1992 in Brighton by members of the Earth First! movement
who wanted to form a breakaway group that would use more extreme tactics.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            November 10, 2008 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

ENEMY WITHIN!;
Thousands of Brit terrorists ready to attack

BYLINE: by EMMA WALL

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 233 words


THOUSANDS of fanatics in Britain are planning a series of massacres, it was
claimed last night.

The terrorists have formed alQaida cells in London, Birmingham and Luton, a
leaked document has warned.

Most of them are between 18 and 30 and were born in the UK but trained at
foreign terror camps.

They have been taught about explosives, increasing the danger of "spectacular"
attacks in crowded places.

The report was drawn up by the Ministry of Defence, MI5 and Special Branch.

It states: "For the foreseeable future the UK will continue to be a
high-priority target for international terrorists aligned with al-Qaida.

"It will face a threat from British nationals, including Muslim converts, and
UK-based foreign terrorists, as well as terrorists planning attacks from
abroad." The Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre reckons there are "some thousands
of extremists in the UK committed to supporting Jihadi activities, either in the
UK or abroad".

They fear the terrorists could target airports and train stations, like Tube
suicide bomber Mohammed Siddique Khan did.

The threat to Britain is so great MI5 has almost doubled its staff since 2001 to
3,500 and set up nine regional offices.

Tory MP Patrick Mercer, highlighted the threat and warned: "The fact that we
have not been attacked for over two years should not be taken by anyone as
evidence that the threat has gone away, in fact it is just the contrary."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOMBER: Khan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 11, 2008 Tuesday

Russia: Terrorist attack in Vladikavkaz to be solved in two weeks - official

LENGTH: 157 words


Text of "Novosti Dnya" news report by Russian Zvezda TV, Defence Ministry
controlled, promotes patriotic values, on 11 November

[Presenter] The terrorist attack carried out in Vladikavkaz on 6 November will
be solved in two weeks, the head of the Investigations Committee under the
Russian Prosecutor-General's Office, Aleksandr Bastrykin, has said. The
investigation is establishing the identity of the suicide bomber and checking a
number of people who might have been involved in the crime, he told journalists.

[Bastrykin] We have set the task to implement the full range of measures within
two weeks so that in two weeks I could come again and we could report about
solving the crime. There are good prospects. I think the crime will be solved.

[Presenter] The suicide bomber blew herself up in the centre of Vladikavkaz on 6
November. Twelve people were killed, around 40 were injured.

Source: Zvezda TV, Moscow, in Russian 0600 gmt 11 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 11, 2008 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Suicide attack brings terror to the school run in Iraq;
* Co-ordinated bombs kill at least 28 in Baghdad attack on schoolgirls' minibus

BYLINE: Patrick Cockburn

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 484 words


Suicide bombers first attacked a bus full of schoolgirls in central Baghdad
yesterday and then detonated a second bomb in the middle of a crowd of rescuers,
killing at least 28 people and wounding 66 others.

"I rushed to the site and saw several schoolgirls trapped in a bus, screaming
for help," said Abbas Fadhil, standing in a blood-soaked shirt outside the
damaged restaurant where he worked. "We got the girls out of the bus, and rushed
them to hospital."

The two explosions took place within seconds of each other during the morning
rush hour in the mostly Shia Kasrah section of the al-Adhamiyah district. They
have the hallmarks of an al-Qa'ida attack. Security in the Iraqi capital, having
improved in the first half of 2007 and the first half of 2008, has deteriorated
in recent weeks.

Shoes belonging to the girls were scattered in the wreckage of the minibus, on a
floor soaked in blood. Many students from the nearby fine arts institute were
also killed or wounded when they were caught by the blast as they ate breakfast
in nearby cafes. "This is a criminal act that targeted innocent people who were
heading to work and school, while politicians are busy with their personal greed
and ambitions," said Abbas Fadhil.

In Diyala province north east of Baghdad, which has seen some of the worst
atrocities in the war, a woman suicide bomber meanwhile killed five people and
wounded 15 yesterday, when she blew herself up at a security checkpoint in
Baquba, the provincial capital. Sectarian killings are well below their level of
two years ago - when 3,000 Sunni and Shia were being slaughtered every month.
But the Iraqi capital is still wholly divided between the two communities, with
few mixed areas remaining. Particularly horrendous attacks, such as those on
Shia school children, could ignite a fresh wave of tit-for-tat murders.

There are army and police checkpoints every few hundred yards in Baghdad leading
to near gridlock in traffic. But individual suicide bombers are almost
impossible to stop and al-Qa'ida in Iraq still has an extensive network capable
of recruiting and equipping bombers in the city. There have also been a series
of assassination attempts on senior officials. So far, however, large numbers of
police and soldiers on the streets have been able to prevent the return of
massive truck bombs, often containing a ton or more of explosives, being
detonated in Shia areas. A new difficulty facing the government is the fall in
the price of crude oil on which the state is wholly dependent. Iraq had been
expecting oil revenue of almost $80bn for 2008, but this will be much lower now
the price of oil is down to $64 a barrel. With total government expenditure at
some $50bn, this means the government may be short of $10bn to $15bn next year.
Earlier this year the government was doubling the salaries of government
employees, as if the high price of oil would be permanent.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           November 11, 2008 Tuesday

Inventions can help stop terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 234 words


Scientists have invented a  device that could help prevent terror attacks by
identifying tiny explosive particles on people, clothing and luggage.

The Explosive Residue Detection System can remotely scan crowded areas  alerting
an operator if it detects traces of explosive chemicals invisible to the naked
eye.

It has been developed by Professor John Tyrer, from Loughborough University's
Wolfson School of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering, and colleagues from
the department of chemistry.

It uses pulsed lasers and video camera techniques to produce scanning beams.

If explosive residue is detected, the system activates automatically and alerts
an operator to a positive identification.

The ERD is being field tested in ports, airports and railway stations in secret
locations across the country.

Prof Tyrer said it does not rely on people watching a TV screen, like
conventional airport security and is more accurate than sniffer dogs.

He said: "I recognised a number of years ago that there was a need for trying to
determine whether or not people were handling explosives.

"Being able to see explosive residue on people would have obvious and
significant security benefits, if we could do it.

"When you handle an explosive the chemicals and various constituents, such as
the Semtex or TNT, leave traces on your fingers and clothes.  The challenge was
being able to see those particles, and those alone."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           November 11, 2008 Tuesday

Inventions can help stop terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 234 words


Scientists have invented a  device that could help prevent terror attacks by
identifying tiny explosive particles on people, clothing and luggage.

The Explosive Residue Detection System can remotely scan crowded areas  alerting
an operator if it detects traces of explosive chemicals invisible to the naked
eye.

It has been developed by Professor John Tyrer, from Loughborough University's
Wolfson School of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering, and colleagues from
the department of chemistry.

It uses pulsed lasers and video camera techniques to produce scanning beams.

If explosive residue is detected, the system activates automatically and alerts
an operator to a positive identification.

The ERD is being field tested in ports, airports and railway stations in secret
locations across the country.

Prof Tyrer said it does not rely on people watching a TV screen, like
conventional airport security and is more accurate than sniffer dogs.

He said: "I recognised a number of years ago that there was a need for trying to
determine whether or not people were handling explosives.

"Being able to see explosive residue on people would have obvious and
significant security benefits, if we could do it.

"When you handle an explosive the chemicals and various constituents, such as
the Semtex or TNT, leave traces on your fingers and clothes.  The challenge was
being able to see those particles, and those alone."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           November 11, 2008 Tuesday

Inventions can help stop terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 234 words


Scientists have invented a  device that could help prevent terror attacks by
identifying tiny explosive particles on people, clothing and luggage.

The Explosive Residue Detection System can remotely scan crowded areas  alerting
an operator if it detects traces of explosive chemicals invisible to the naked
eye.

It has been developed by Professor John Tyrer, from Loughborough University's
Wolfson School of Mechanical and Manufacturing Engineering, and colleagues from
the department of chemistry.

It uses pulsed lasers and video camera techniques to produce scanning beams.

If explosive residue is detected, the system activates automatically and alerts
an operator to a positive identification.

The ERD is being field tested in ports, airports and railway stations in secret
locations across the country.

Prof Tyrer said it does not rely on people watching a TV screen, like
conventional airport security and is more accurate than sniffer dogs.

He said: "I recognised a number of years ago that there was a need for trying to
determine whether or not people were handling explosives.

"Being able to see explosive residue on people would have obvious and
significant security benefits, if we could do it.

"When you handle an explosive the chemicals and various constituents, such as
the Semtex or TNT, leave traces on your fingers and clothes.  The challenge was
being able to see those particles, and those alone."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 11, 2008 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

TERROR COPS PROBE TGV RAIL ATTACKS;
FRANCE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 114 words


FRENCH anti-terrorist police have launched an urgent inquiry after a series of
attacks on high-speed train lines in the country.

Thousands of lives - including those of British tourists - have been put at
risk. The investigation comes after a 100mph TGV train ploughed into concrete
blocks placed on a rail line in southern France on Sunday.

The driver managed to safely halt the train. Two days earlier, vandals rammed an
iron rod into 25,000-volt power cables on the Paris-to-London Eurostar line.
There have been three similar incidents in the past month.

Interior Minister Michele Alliot-Marie has ordered a probe into the "potential
terrorist sabotage" of the national rail network.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 12, 2008 Wednesday

Azeri police chief says fresh terror attacks on Baku mosque planned

LENGTH: 91 words


An Azerbaijani senior police officer has said that fresh terror attacks were
planned on the closed Abu Bakr mosque in Baku, APA news agency reported on 12
November. The deputy police chief of Baku's Narimanov district, Akbar Ismayilov,
told APA that information in this regard would be made public soon.

Akbarov added that three more persons had been arrested in connection with the
17 August explosion at the Abu Bakr mosque, which killed two persons and wounded
more than 10.

Source: Azerbaijani news agency APA, Baku, in Azeri 1314 gmt 12 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 12, 2008 Wednesday

Russia: Website denies terrorist attack was planned in Ingushetia

LENGTH: 109 words


Text of report by Ingushetia.org website

12 November: Information was circulated in the republic yesterday [11 November]
about the detention of a woman terrorist in Nazran, who tried to leave a bag
with an explosive substance at the central market.

This information is not true and is a provocation. Indeed, a woman was detained
at the market in Nazran, who behaved inappropriately: she threw rocks at
passers-by and used obscene words.

Police detained her and took her to where she lives, Vladikavkaz (Buro [Chechen
and Ingush name for Vladikavkaz]).

There was no attempt of committing a terrorist attack.

Source: Ingushetia.org website, in Russian 12 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                          November 12, 2008 Wednesday
                                  SC1 Edition

Terror attack accused 'had tried to join British Army';
Airport trial doctor tells of 'love' for UK

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 722 words


AN Iraqi doctor accused of trying to launch a terror campaign by carrying out
car bomb attacks in Glasgow and London had tried to join the British Army, a
court heard yesterday.

Dr Bilal Abdulla, 29, said he loved the UK and while studying in England had
volunteered to fight for the country.

'I tried to join the British Army,' he told yesterday's hearing at Woolwich
Crown Court in London. I visited the local Army offices in Cambridge and talked
to the colonel there. But in the end we could not reach a conclusion.' Speaking
for the first time in his own defence,

Abdulla told the jury he was born in Britain, held a British passport and
studied at university here.

But he said the fighting and aftermath of the second Gulf War left him shocked
at the brutality of Western governments and led to him backing insurgent attacks
on Allied forces in Iraq.

Abdulla, who lived and worked at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley,
Renfrewshire, fought back tears as he described the effect of sanctions on Iraq,
with shortages of basic medicines.

He also said he hated the American government and was shocked that British
soldiers failed to stop Shia Muslims driving the majority Sunni population out
of Basra.

Abdulla is accused of attempting to murder hundreds of people by leaving mobile
phone- detonated car bombs outside a nightclub in London's West End.

When the vehicles, packed with gas, petrol and nails, failed to detonate, he
joined a suicide attack on Glasgow Airport the next day, the prosecution said.

The driver of the Jeep Cherokee which was rammed into the terminal building,
Kafeel Ahmed, 28, later died from burns he suffered in the attack.

Abdulla is on trial with a second doctor, Mohammed Asha, 28, accused of
conspiracy to murder and to cause explosions. They deny the offences.

Yesterday, Abdulla told the court he was born in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire,
when his father was training as a doctor in a local hospital and his mother
worked as a pharmacist.

He travelled to Iraq when he was four years old and his next journey abroad was
to Jordan, 15 years later, to claim a British passport.

Abdulla said the Iraq-Iran war, 1991 Iraq war, subsequent United Nations
sanctions and 2003 Gulf War, left the country in ruins.

'I did not want to stay in Iraq because of the oppression of the regime, and
British citizenship was a good exit from that regime,' he said.

Abdulla, who came from a large, highly educated, religiously moderate and
middle-class family, described how they fled Baghdad at the start of the 1991
war as massive bombs killed 400 people in one strike on a nuclear bunker.

'Baghdad had been one of the most beautiful cities in the Middle East and it was
a ruin,' he said.

Asked how that war changed his view of the West, he said: 'It was the views of
the middle class of the country.

'All the educated people there were shocked. People who were educated in the
West understood the standards and Western values and they were shocked.

'To be honest, most of the people in Iraq are educated in the UK, so they gave
most of the blame to the U.S. They gave the credit to the UK.

'It was the younger brother of the U.S. and the U.S. did everything, so most
people directed their criticism at the U.S.' Speaking about the aftermath of the
2003 Iraq war, Abdulla said he supported U.S. forces coming to Iraq because he
wanted to see 'reform and change'.

But he then claimed to have seen 'discrimination' as the Americans sided with
the Shias. He said the country descended into chaos and lawlessness, with no
water or electricity and gangsters running amok.

He said: 'We knew the Americans were here for one reason, we knew that they were
here for the petrol in Iraq, and we were happy: "Take the petrol, take whatever
you want, fix the country and the price is worth it." 'I would say if you take
petrol and you topple Saddam, the price is worth it. But the Americans did not
do that. They destroyed the infrastructure and they did not rebuild it.' Asked
by his barrister, Jim Sturman QC, if he supported the Sunni resistance, Abdulla
said: 'Definitely, I looked high upon those fighting the invaders. I supported
the insurgency.' Asked what his feelings were towards people in Britain, he
said: 'I did not have any hatred towards any individual person anywhere in this
country or other countries.' The trial continues today..

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (1) On trial: Dr Bilal Abdulla said he was shocked by brutality of the
West (2) Inferno: The blazing Jeep Cherokee

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 13, 2008 Thursday

Afghan paper hails US attacks on "sources of terrorism" in Pakistan

LENGTH: 748 words


Text of article by Jaghori in Dari, "Change in geography of war is to benefit of
Afghanistan", published by Afghan independent secular daily newspaper Hasht-e
Sobh on 11 November

The change in the geography of war from Afghanistan to Pakistan and the new
strategy by the Pakistani authorities in their fight against Taleban has changed
the status of war in Afghanistan.

The level of major organized attacks by the Taleban has fallen in recent weeks.
The Taleban have instead adopted a new approach of seeking shelter among people
in villages.

The fall in Taleban attacks in volatile areas does not mean the war has ended
and the government has retained control of the areas - the current situation can
very well indicate that the sources of terrorism are under pressure.

For the first time in the past seven years, tribal areas have changed to a
battlefield between Taleban and Pakistani troops and scene of attacks by
unmanned American planes.

Though the Pakistani authorities used to oppose any attack in their country, it
seems following [recent political] changes in that country a secret unannounced
agreement has been made between America and Pakistan.

There can be two reasons why Pakistan has not shown a serious and firm reaction
to attacks by American unmanned planes.

First, America has convinced Pakistan that the war on terror cannot succeed
unless the sources of terror are targeted and that Pakistan will face such
attacks whether it agrees to it or not.

That is why Pakistani authorities have remained silent about the attacks - a
sign of consent to the attacks.

The new anti-terror strategy adopted by Pakistani authorities can be the other
reason [for Pakistan's agreement to attacks on terrorist bases.]

Pakistan had, in the previous years, changed to a safe haven for Taleban and
Al-Qa'idah, but the emergence of the Pakistani Taleban as a power in tribal
areas evoked [more] concerns in that country.

The rise in suicide attacks and attacks on the safest parts [of Pakistan] like
the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad, abduction of political figures and the spread
of Taleban influence in big cities of Pakistan convinced Pakistani authorities
to adopt a new approach.

It is not only that the government of Pakistan has kept silent about the US air
strikes, but it is also trying to introduce some changes in its relations with
Afghanistan.

The meeting of the mini peace jerga and [the recent] visits by Afghan and
Pakistani authorities in an atmosphere clear of accusations and political
tensions are the new signs of cooperation in the war on terror and regional
cooperation.

The new approach can undoubtedly be considered a new step and chapter in
relations between the two countries.

The main factor for worsening of relations [between Afghanistan and Pakistan]
and insecurity in Afghanistan has been said to be the fact that Pakistan has
used the Taleban as a tool [to disrupt situation in Afghanistan].

Pakistan has now realized that it needs to fight the Taleban in order to restore
stability in that country. That is why it has given consent to air strikes
against Taleban bases.

What is important for Afghanistan is the change in the geography of war and the
response for frequent calls by Afghan authorities asking for the main sources of
terrorism to be targeted.

Mr Karzai and other Afghan authorities have several times pointed out the issue.
In his recent remarks too, Hamed Karzai reiterated it was necessary to target
the main sources of terrorism as part of the war on terror.

One can therefore say the war in Waziristan and [Pakistani] tribal areas is
close to what the government of Afghanistan wants because it has helped reduce
the war in Afghanistan.

The recent incidents in the country show that the Taleban are not as strong and
capable as they were in the past.

The change in the Taleban's approach and the fact that they have resorted to new
tactics is also a result of the existing pressure on the group.

The important question is whether or not the coalition member countries have
reached harmony with themselves. Most of the NATO-member countries have
unfortunately paid less attention to the issue in the past seven years and some
of them have had very good relations with Pakistan.

The change in the US leadership and the promises by [Barack] Obama saying that
Afghanistan will be a priority have increased hopes that the change in the
geography of war and attacks on sources of terrorism will continue as a new
strategy.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari 11 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            November 14, 2008 Friday
                     London and all shared stories Edition

TUBE WONT COPE WITH TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: FRED ATTEWILL

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 213 words


BASIC safety measures to save lives on the Tube remain undone more than three
years after the 7/7 atrocities, the home secretary was told yesterday.

Emergency water, first-aid equipment and instructions on what to do in an attack
are still lacking on London Underground, Conservative MP Patrick Mercer said.

The former shadow homeland security minister pleaded with home secretary Jacqui
Smith to remedy the situation when she appeared before the Commons home affairs
select committee.

Mr Mercer said travelling on the Underground was as dangerous as 2005 when 52
commuters died on July 7 as bombs exploded on three Tubes and above ground on a
bus.

He said: On the Tube, the Airwaves (radio) system is still not yet complete.
There are no dressing stations. There is no emergency water.

There are no instructions on what to do in the event of an emergency. There are
no rehearsals. There is no first aid equipment.

There are no longer any dog patrols. There is no detection equipment... all of
which exist to a greater or lesser extent on underground systems in other parts
of the world. But Ms Smith said some of the measures are in place, some secret
and some ongoing. She said: I take this extremely seriously.I accept that thats
an area, as are others, of potential vulnerability.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Worcester News

                            November 14, 2008 Friday

Arson attack family relive night of terror

SECTION: LATEST (WN NEWS LATEST)

LENGTH: 371 words


THE family of a man killed in an arson attack have spoken for the first time
about their terror as the house filled with smoke.

Roseann Perkins, formerly of the Glade, Malvern, managed to escape the fire with
her 17-year-old daughter Katie and two sons, Ben, aged 18, and Shaun, 22.

Her husband Richard Perkins, 37, died in the house.

Mrs Perkins, who is now staying with family in Upton-upon-Severn, recounted the
horrendous events that took place in the early hours of Monday, October 13.

She said: "I remember Katie screaming, saying the house was on fire. I thought
she was in the other room but I realised that she was standing next to my bed.
Basically, it was just a panic from there.

"I shook my husband but he wouldn't wake up and my thoughts automatically turned
to the kids.

"I told Katie to crawl on the floor because of the smoke. I remember Ben jumping
out of the window. Katie was crying 'mum, mum, I love you'."

Neighbours, alerted by the noise, rushed over to the house and placed ladders to
the windows, helping the family escape.

Mrs Perkins, who suffered severe smoke inhalation, remembers standing outside
the house as the flames quickly devoured the upstairs rooms.

"I knew my husband had already passed away," she said.

Former Chase student Katie also suffered severe smoke inhalation as well as
burns on her hands from holding onto a plastic window frame as it was melted by
the heat.

Both Katie and her mother were kept alive on ventilators at Worcestershire Royal
Hospital, while Ben was also treated for smoke inhalation and Shaun escaped with
minor injuries.

Mrs Perkins described the days spent in a critical condition without news of her
daughter's condition.

She said: "I did not even know how Katie was doing. I didn't see her for 10 or
11 days. No one would tell me about Richard but I knew he had passed away."

Only in the last two weeks have they broken the news to Katie that Richard died
in the fire.

Mrs Perkins said: "He was always doing stuff with them. Katie was his favourite
and he spoilt her. It was the perfect father-daughter relationship."

Katie's persistent cough and croaky voice attest to the damage the smoke did to
her Her family also say she has become more withdrawn since leaving hospital.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 15, 2008 Saturday

Turkey Foreign Ministry issues statement on terror attack in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 90 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 14 November: Turkish Foreign Ministry said on Friday [14 November] that
Turkey was deeply saddened by the attack that killed 21 people in Afghanistan.

A statement released by the ministry said the terrorist attack that took place
in Nangarhar province of Afghanistan on Thursday killing 21 people deeply
saddened the country.

Turkey hoped that stability would be restored in Afghanistan soon, it said.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1836 gmt 14 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 16, 2008 Sunday

USA warns of terror attacks in Kenya

LENGTH: 65 words


Text of report by Kenyan newspaper Daily Nation on 16 November

Terrorists are planning to strike in Kenya, the US government warned yesterday.

In a travel advisory issued to its citizens planning to visit the country, the
US department of state has warned of a potential terrorist attack targeting
American, Western and Kenyan interests.

Source: Daily Nation, Nairobi, in English 16 Nov 08, pg 3

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Sunday Life

                               November 16, 2008
                                  Main Edition

Terror attacks hit both sides of the community;
Republican and loyalist 'micro-groups' are behind the latest spate of firebomb
attacks on Orange Halls and GAA clubhouses - and there is no sign of any let-up
in their tit-for-tat campaign, writes Crime Correspondent STEPHEN BREEN

BYLINE: Crime Correspondent STEPHEN BREEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 586 words


RENEGADE republican and loyalist terrorists last night vowed to continue
fire-bombing Orange halls and GAA clubs across Ulster.

Senior security sources told Sunday Life the shadowy 'Orange Volunteers' and the
Real IRA are set to step up their campaign of terror after masterminding the
recent spate of tit-for-tat attacks.

The latest incident happened in the early of hours of last Friday morning when
an Orange Hall at Bawn, near Pomeroy, was damaged after an explosive device
caused damage to the roof of the premises.

Just a few days before the attack in Pomeroy, the Fr Rocks GAA club in Cookstown
was destroyed after an arson attack.

And a week before the petrol-bombing of the popular GAA club, two Orange Halls
were targeted in the Coagh and Pomeroy areas of Co Tyrone.

Security sources believe the dissident terror groups - believed to be small in
number - will continue with the fire-bomb attacks over the coming months.

And there are fears the terrorists could target individual members of the Orange
Order and the GAA after vowing to step up their campaign of violence.

Said one security source: "These groups are small in number, but they have
members who are ruthless.

"The police know all about them, but they often slip through the net to launch
such attacks.

"These people are determined to return Northern Ireland to the bad old days and
that's why they are committing these senseless attacks.

"It's only a matter of time before they target individual members and people
have to be vigilant."

Police have also vowed to step up patrols in Tyrone after vowing to beat the
bigots. Sunday Life knows the name of the shadowy terror group's leader, but
cannot publish it for legal reasons.

A spokesman for the Orange Volunteers attempted to justify attacks on the GAA
halls.

He said: "Our culture is being eroded on a daily basis and we are sending out a
message that this will not be tolerated. A lot of GAA clubs support republican
terrorism with their clubs named after IRA men and, if their people attack our
culture, then we will hit back.

"If the attacks on Orange Halls stop, then we will refrain from further attacks.
But if they can continue and our people are attacked, then we will not sit back
and take it."

A Real IRA spokesman warned the group would retaliate against loyalists if GAA
clubs or members were targeted by extremist loyalist groups.

He added: "If these people continue to attack innocent nationalists, then they
should know that it's only matter of time before it comes to their own door.

"Unlike other republicans, we will not take this intimidation lying down. If we
have to take the war to these small loyalist groups, then we will do so without
reservation."

The grand secretary of the Orange Order, Drew Nelson, said dissident groups were
using the attacks to "create instability" in the community. He said: "They are
using both the GAA and Orange Order to do that.

"The judiciary is sending out the wrong message when they are allowing people to
walk away from attacks - which have the potential to create community division -
with community service orders."

Tyrone GAA board chairman Pat Darcy condemned the attacks: "GAA clubs are used
by everyone in the community and I would also condemn attacks on Orange Halls
because they are also used by the community."

Culture Minister Gregory Campbell hit out at the recent attacks, adding: "These
people are morons.

"There will be a response by the community and those who attack the halls for
whatever mischievous reason will see that it has backfired."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2008 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           November 18, 2008 Tuesday
                     London and all shared stories Edition

I AM A TERRORIST, ADMITS AIRPORT ATTACK BOMBER

BYLINE: MILES ERWIN

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 237 words


AN NHS doctor accused of launching an attack on Glasgow airport admitted
yesterday that he was a terrorist.

Bilal Abdulla told a court that, according to English law, as he had been
arrested under the terrorism act, he was a terrorist.

That is my aim, to change opinion using violence, using fire devices, he said.
That is my case in a nutshell. I am told I am a terrorist but is your government
not a terrorist, is your army not a terrorist?

The 29-year-old Iraqi said he made the admission to police after the failed bid
to ram a 4x4 packed with petrol and gas canisters into the terminal building.

But he insisted he was planning to flee Britain after similar failed attacks in
Londons West End when driver Kafeel Ahmed suddenly swerved into the airport.

I got alarmed and I shouted: What are you doing?, he said.

Abdulla admitted throwing petrol bombs after the car became stuck but said it
was only to stop himself catching fire. The junior doctor is accused of
launching the attack with Mohammed Asha, 28, and Ahmed, 28, in June last year.
Ahmed died a month later from burns.

Abdulla has said he never planned to hurt anyone in his bid to highlight the
plight of people in Iraq and Afghanistan.

If it was to kill people or cause an explosion, we would not have done it that
way, he added. Abdulla and Asha both deny conspiracy to murder and to cause
explosions.

The trial at Woolwich Crown Court in south-east London continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Admission: Abdulla

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 18, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Scots Edition

WHY I'M A TERRORIST;
GLASGOW AIRPORT ATTACK ACCUSED TO COURT..

BYLINE: BY RON MOORE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 293 words


A DOCTOR accused of attempted car bombings in Glasgow and London yesteray
admitted he IS a terrorist.

NHS doctor Bilal Abdulla, 29, is alleged to have crashed into the packed airport
terminal in a Jeep crammed with petrol bombs and gas canisters. However, he told
the jury at Woolwich crown court he never wanted to hurt anyone.

The trial heard after he was arrested Abdulla told police he was a terrorist.

Abdulla yesterday told the court: "Everyone was saying you are a terrorist, you
are arrested under the Terrorism Act and so forth. That is my case in a
nutshell. I am told I am a terrorist, but is your government not a terrorist, is
your army not a terrorist? By the definition of the Act, according to English
law, yes."

Abdulla, from Houston near Paisley, and Dr Mohammed Asha, 27, from
Newcastleunder-Lyme, both deny conspiracies to murder and to cause explosions.

The defence has said Abdulla and Kafeel Ahmed, 28, wanted to highlight the
plight of people in Iraq and Afghanistan by a series of bomb attacks in June,
2007. Asha is accused of supplying cash and advice.

Abdulla said, at Glasgow airport, Ahmed ran the Jeep into the terminal without
warning. He said: "I shouted, 'What are you doing, what is happening?' I had
never seen Kafeel's face like that in my life."

Abdulla admitted throwing petrol bombs as he got out of the burning car, but
claimed he tossed them away to protect himself. Ahmed died a month later from
burns. Abdulla said: "From day one, we said we will not kill or injure any
innocent person.

"This incident, if it was to kill people or cause an explosion, we would not
have done it that way. It looks very clumsy."

The trial continues.

Is your army not a terrorist, is the government not a terrorist?

DR BILAL ABDULLA AT THE OLD BAILEY

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIREBOMB Jury shown devices used in Glasgow arson; PETROL BOMBS Dr
Bilal Abdulla

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 18, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Ulster Edition

TERROR OVER 4AM HAMMER ATTACK

BYLINE: BY TOM MCTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 192 words


A COMMUNITY worker's family home was attacked by a hammer-wielding thug in the
early hours of yesterday morning.

Gerry O'Reilly and his family, from the New Lodge area of North Belfast, were
sleeping when at least one yob vandalised his home and car before running off.
Mr O'Reilly, who works for a cross-community group tackling crime, was
recovering yesterday from shock.

He said: "They are cowards. Me, my wife and three of our children, who were in
the house when it happened, are exhausted, we haven't slept since."

The 53-year-old told how he believes the attackers were hitting back against his
work with the police.

He added: "I'm involved with an interface group and we have seen a criminal
element who might be disgruntled with our work with the police. But the people
who did this are a small minority of criminal thugs - the vast majority of young
people do so much good in this area."

Sinn Fein Assembly member Gerry Kelly said: "There is no justification for this
attack whatsoever.

"Everybody locally knows Gerry and the sterling work he does.

"This was carried out by a very small group who will not detract from the great
work that is going on."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         Middlesbrough Evening Gazette

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday
                                  FIN Edition

Mum's terror after attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 66 words


A MOTHER-OF-THREE today told how she thought she was going to die after a savage
beating by a burglar.

Melanie Dodds, pictured, needed surgery after being badly hurt in the attack
which happened after she walked in on a woman ransacking her friend's flat.
Today the 37-year-old, who was stamped on, kicked and punched unconscious, is so
shaken she is scared to leave her home.

Full story: Page 5

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday

Pakistan northwest province police said foil 75 terror attacks in 10 months

LENGTH: 250 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Peshawar, 20 November: Inspector General of Police NWFP [North West Frontier
Province] , Malik Naveed Khan said on Thursday [20 November] that police have
foiled 75 terrorist attacks and arrested 36 accused involved in these crime
during the last 10 months. As many as 530000 kilogramme explosive materials, 39
explosive jackets, 636 hand grenades, dynamites and 295 rocket launchers were
also recovered during this period, he added. The IGP [inspector general of
police] expressed these views while giving detailed briefing to Advisor to Prime
Minister on National Security General (retd) Mehmood Durrani on policing with
special reference to prevailing law and order situation in NWFP here at CPO
Peshawar on Thursday.

He was informed about the capacity building of police, organizational structure,
manpower and geographical location of the province, constraints, working
condition and challenges confronting the Frontier Police. The Adviser to PM was
also briefed about genesis of militancy in NWFP [North West Frontier Province]
and FATA [Federally Administered Tribal Areas], Fassadies modus operandi to
counter militancy, sensitization of stakeholders i.e. public, press, government
and civil society, raising of 15000 special police force, established of
Musalahity and Aman committees and Restorative Justice System. [passage omitted]

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1144gmt
20 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Daily Record (PM) - UK

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                                  West Edition

TEEN SEX FIEND CAGED OVER 8 ATTACKS;
Court told of 90 minutes of terror

BYLINE: Martin Cameron

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 314 words


A TEENAGE pervert who attacked eight women in a 90-minute sex spree in Glasgow
was today caged for four years.

Boozed-up Robert Thomson was just 15 when he pounced on his terrified victims in
the west end and city centre on June 5 this year.

One woman was dragged into a lane and had her face shoved in a puddle as he
tried to have sex with her.

Thomson, now 16, pleaded guilty to three charges of intent to rape, three
indecent assaults and two assaults and was placed on the sex offenders'
register.

The High Court in Glasgow heard that after committing the offences Thomson went
home and had a meal with his family as if nothing had happened. The teenager was
caught after his victims recognised him from CCTV images shown in reports and he
was arrested days later as he attended an Air Training Corps camp.

Lord Turnbull said: "Robert Thomson, in the space of an hour-and-a-half you
perpetrated indecent assaults on eight different young women in and around
Glasgow city centre.

"Your conduct on that evening appeared to escalate in seriousness. Violent
sexual assaults on women cannot be tolerated. I cannot allow the fact you were
under the influence of an intoxicant to sweep aside what you did." The court
heard all the victims were aged between 20 and 35.

The first woman was attacked near to West Regent Street at around 6pm but she
managed to break free before the boy staggered off.

The last attack came on Great Western Road at around 7.30pm when Thomson dragged
a woman into a lane and shoved her face in a puddle as he tried to have sex with
her.

The court heard that Thomson, a first offender, came from a supportive family
and Lord Turnbull told him: "Your parents will be as mystified by your behaviour
as everyone else."

Thomson, who claimed he could not recall the majority of the allegations, showed
no emotion as he was led away to begin his sentence.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CCTV: Thomson on day of 8 sex attacks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday

Shopkeeper terrorised and attacked by gang

BYLINE:  Matt Sandy

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 341 words


A shopkeeper who tried to stop youths stealing from his store was left bleeding
after one smashed a beer can over his head.

Lakhaman Modhwadia, 28, was hit so hard the impact left an impression of the
base of the Carling can behind his ear.

Half a dozen 14 to 17-year-olds had been terrorising the Day Today store, in
Southfields Drive, Saffron Lane, Leicester,  all evening.

It was the second time that Mr Modhwadia, of Beaumont Leys, Leicester, was
attacked in the shop, which he owns, in just a few months.

The youths first entered the shop in the early evening. The owner refused to
serve them alcohol but they took some.

They returned at 7pm and entered the shop with their hoods up and tried to make
off with more alcohol.

As he was standing in the doorway trying to stop one leaving with  Carling and
Fosters cans, another youth came up behind him and hit him behind the ear with a
can.

The youths then made off . His assistant had pressed the panic button and police
arrived. However, three minutes after the police left the youths returned,
smashing the newspaper stand and letting off a fire extinguisher.

When the police returned, the youths caused a commotion near their  car, Vijay
Sisodia, a friend of the owner, said.

He said: "You can still see the mark on his head from where he was hit.

"He was told he should go to hospital but he couldn't leave his assistant alone
in the shop. He was bleeding."

Mr Modhwadia, who spoke through Mr Sisodia because of his limited English, was
also punched in the face by an angry customer less than three months ago.

He said: "I'm scared. I'm not sure what time they will come again."

A police spokesman said officers were investigating the assault.

He said: "It happened at about 7pm on Wednesday, November 12, when a group of
youths entered the store. One of them threw a drinks can at the shopkeeper. He
sustained a cut to his head.

"The group then made off with alcohol. We have no record of any damage to a
police car."

Nobody has yet been arrested.

Anyone with information can call officers on 0116 222 2222.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday

Shopkeeper terrorised and attacked by gang

BYLINE: Matt Sandy

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 341 words


A shopkeeper who tried to stop youths stealing from his store was left bleeding
after one smashed a beer can over his head.

Lakhaman Modhwadia, 28, was hit so hard the impact left an impression of the
base of the Carling can behind his ear.

Half a dozen 14 to 17-year-olds had been terrorising the Day Today store, in
Southfields Drive, Saffron Lane, Leicester,  all evening.

It was the second time that Mr Modhwadia, of Beaumont Leys, Leicester, was
attacked in the shop, which he owns, in just a few months.

The youths first entered the shop in the early evening. The owner refused to
serve them alcohol but they took some.

They returned at 7pm and entered the shop with their hoods up and tried to make
off with more alcohol.

As he was standing in the doorway trying to stop one leaving with  Carling and
Fosters cans, another youth came up behind him and hit him behind the ear with a
can.

The youths then made off . His assistant had pressed the panic button and police
arrived. However, three minutes after the police left the youths returned,
smashing the newspaper stand and letting off a fire extinguisher.

When the police returned, the youths caused a commotion near their  car, Vijay
Sisodia, a friend of the owner, said.

He said: "You can still see the mark on his head from where he was hit.

"He was told he should go to hospital but he couldn't leave his assistant alone
in the shop. He was bleeding."

Mr Modhwadia, who spoke through Mr Sisodia because of his limited English, was
also punched in the face by an angry customer less than three months ago.

He said: "I'm scared. I'm not sure what time they will come again."

A police spokesman said officers were investigating the assault.

He said: "It happened at about 7pm on Wednesday, November 12, when a group of
youths entered the store. One of them threw a drinks can at the shopkeeper. He
sustained a cut to his head.

"The group then made off with alcohol. We have no record of any damage to a
police car."

Nobody has yet been arrested.

Anyone with information can call officers on 0116 222 2222.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday

Shopkeeper terrorised and attacked by gang

BYLINE: Matt Sandy

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 341 words


A shopkeeper who tried to stop youths stealing from his store was left bleeding
after one smashed a beer can over his head.

Lakhaman Modhwadia, 28, was hit so hard the impact left an impression of the
base of the Carling can behind his ear.

Half a dozen 14 to 17-year-olds had been terrorising the Day Today store, in
Southfields Drive, Saffron Lane, Leicester,  all evening.

It was the second time that Mr Modhwadia, of Beaumont Leys, Leicester, was
attacked in the shop, which he owns, in just a few months.

The youths first entered the shop in the early evening. The owner refused to
serve them alcohol but they took some.

They returned at 7pm and entered the shop with their hoods up and tried to make
off with more alcohol.

As he was standing in the doorway trying to stop one leaving with  Carling and
Fosters cans, another youth came up behind him and hit him behind the ear with a
can.

The youths then made off . His assistant had pressed the panic button and police
arrived. However, three minutes after the police left the youths returned,
smashing the newspaper stand and letting off a fire extinguisher.

When the police returned, the youths caused a commotion near their  car, Vijay
Sisodia, a friend of the owner, said.

He said: "You can still see the mark on his head from where he was hit.

"He was told he should go to hospital but he couldn't leave his assistant alone
in the shop. He was bleeding."

Mr Modhwadia, who spoke through Mr Sisodia because of his limited English, was
also punched in the face by an angry customer less than three months ago.

He said: "I'm scared. I'm not sure what time they will come again."

A police spokesman said officers were investigating the assault.

He said: "It happened at about 7pm on Wednesday, November 12, when a group of
youths entered the store. One of them threw a drinks can at the shopkeeper. He
sustained a cut to his head.

"The group then made off with alcohol. We have no record of any damage to a
police car."

Nobody has yet been arrested.

Anyone with information can call officers on 0116 222 2222.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2008 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 21, 2008 Friday

Georgia accuses Russia of organizing "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 566 words


Text of "Statement by the Georgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs on provocation in
Ganmukhuri" carried by Georgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website on 20
November

On 20 November 2008, Russian occupying forces stationed in Abkhazia, Georgia,
carried out another provocation against Georgia. In particular, at 0645 [0245
gmt] two Russian armoured personnel carriers and an armed formation of the
puppet [Abkhaz] regime crossed the administrative border from the occupied
territory and opened fire on the police checkpoint in the Ganmukhuri village.
The fire, which lasted 15 minutes, destroyed the checkpoint and a nearby private
building belonging to a civilian.

On their way back, Russian soldiers mined the crossing point between the
villages of Otobaia [in breakaway Abkhazia] and Ganmukhuri. The head of the UN
monitoring group managed to videotape the tracks of the Russian armoured
personnel carriers, while EU monitors came to the site of the incident as well.

The incident was repeated at 1030. The Russians opened fire on the Georgian
checkpoint from the administrative border near Otobaia. At that time, two
military helicopters flew low over the village of Ganmukhuri. UN and EU monitors
could see the helicopters.

The aforementioned fact confirms that the Russian occupiers and the armed
formations of their puppet regime continue to organize terrorist attacks against
Georgian civilians and law-enforcers in the areas adjacent to the occupied
territories.

The incident is not an isolated case, but a segment in a long chain of
provocative actions carried out by Russia. Such attacks launched from
territories occupied by Russian constantly take place and often end in
casualties. This facilitates the escalation of tensions, disrupts the normal
rhythm of life, and endangers the lives of local civilians and EU monitors.

It is noteworthy that schools in the villages of Ganmukhuri and Anaklia were
closed after today's incident. It is also deeply alarming that Georgians on the
occupied territories are prohibited from receiving education in their native
language.

The Russian side, which is the occupying force in the conflict regions, should
be held fully responsible for provocations against Georgia carried out from
territories under its control. The Russian side is also responsible for the
constant violations of human rights taking place against Georgian residents
living on the occupied territories.

It is deeply regretful that this provocation by Russia was carried out against
the backdrop of the second round of peace talks in Geneva, marked with progress
in terms of resumption of dialogue.

In order to ensure security in the conflict regions, it is imperative for Russia
to comply with the six-point cease-fire agreement and withdraw its forces to
their positions prior to 7 August 2008. To avoid further provocations, it is
also necessary for the EU and OSCE monitors to be able to monitor the occupied
territories in accordance with their mandate and provide the international
community with objective information about the situation there.

Georgia calls on the international community to condemn Russia's provocations
and to exert maximum pressure on Russia to make it fully comply with the
cease-fire agreement. This will enable us to avoid further escalation of the
situation.

Tbilisi, 20 November 2008

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Tbilisi, in Georgian 20 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           November 22, 2008 Saturday

Road rage attack terror

BYLINE: Alex Brown

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 56 words


A Disabled driver was throttled as he sat in his car and told his house would be
burned down.

Lee Davies (pictured) was attacked in a road rage incident after a row over his
driving.

The wheelchair user was choked by Nicholas Stubbs, who accused him of speeding.

Stubbs told Mr Davies: "If you take me on, I'll burn your f****** house down."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           November 22, 2008 Saturday

Road rage attack terror

BYLINE: Alex Brown

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 56 words


A Disabled driver was throttled as he sat in his car and told his house would be
burned down.

Lee Davies (pictured) was attacked in a road rage incident after a row over his
driving.

The wheelchair user was choked by Nicholas Stubbs, who accused him of speeding.

Stubbs told Mr Davies: "If you take me on, I'll burn your f****** house down."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                           November 22, 2008 Saturday

Road rage attack terror

BYLINE: Alex Brown

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 56  words


A Disabled driver was throttled as he sat in his car and told his house would be
burned down.

Lee Davies (pictured) was attacked in a road rage incident after a row over his
driving.

The wheelchair user was choked by Nicholas Stubbs, who accused him of speeding.

Stubbs told Mr Davies: "If you take me on, I'll burn your f****** house down."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2008 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           November 22, 2008 Saturday

Bomber 'not sorry' over restaurant terror attack;
Muslim convert Nicky Reilly, who tried to kill diners by blowing up a family
restaurant in Exeter, left a chilling suicide note revealing his hatred for what
he called Britain's "war on Islam", the Old Bailey has been told.

BYLINE: Olivier Vergnault

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 585 words


His note, found by police in his bedroom at his mother's flat in King Street,
Plymouth, blamed the "disgusting" behaviour of Britons, and the suffering of
Muslims at the hands of Britain, Israel and America, for the attack on the
Giraffe restaurant.

The note, printed in red ink, attacks drunkenness and sexual immorality as well
as the treatment of prisoners in Guantanamo Bay.

In it Reilly, 22, insists: "I have not been brainwashed or indoctrinated."

The note begins: "In the name of God most gracious, most merciful: why I did it.

"Everywhere Muslims are suffering at the hands of Britain, Israel and America.
We are sick of taking all the brutality from you. You have imprisoned over 1,000
Muslims in Britain alone in your war on Islam. You torture and destroy Muslim
lives by taking a father or a son or a brother, even you torture Muslim women."

Despite writing the note, making explosives,  making contact with terrorist
sites on the Internet and targeting the Exeter restaurant, his barrister Kerim
Fuad argued Reilly "lacked cunning" and is the least sophisticated person to be
charged with terrorism.

The failed bomber's suicide note was revealed  as Mr Fuad argued Reilly should
be made the subject of an interim hospital order, which could have delayed his
sentencing for at least 11 months.

But the application was rejected by Mr Justice Calvert-Smith who said: "A
year's wait until this young man is sentenced is simply out of the question."

He put off sentencing to January 30 to allow reports from two psychiatrists.

Reilly, who changed his name to Mohammad Rashid Saeed-Alim in 2004 in tribute to
the 9/11 New York suicide attackers, pleaded guilty last month to attempted
murder and preparing an act of terrorism.

The court was given details of how dozens of customers at the Giraffe restaurant
in Exeter fled in panic when three soft drink bottles exploded in the toilets on
May 22 this year.

The Old Bailey heard yesterday how Reilly's note went on to say: "In Britain,
it's OK for a girl to have sex without marriage and if she gets pregnant she can
get an abortion so easily.

"When you are getting drunk on Friday and Saturday night your behaviour is worse
than animals. You have sex in nightclub toilets. You urinate in shop doorways.
You shout your foul and disgusting mouth off in the street.

"It is unacceptable to Allah and the true religion Islam. Britain and USA and
Israel have no real rules.

"I have not been brainwashed or indoctrinated. I am not insane. I am not doing
it to escape a life of problems or hardships. I am doing what God wants from his
mujahideen. We love death as you love life. You kill one of my people, I kill
one of yours."

Mr Fuad told the court doctors had expressed concerns about the mental state of
Reilly who has Asperger's Syndrome and learning difficulties.

Mr Fuad said: "This defendant is not sophisticated in the slightest in any
aspect of his life. He may well be the least cunning person ever to have come
before this court for any offence of this magnitude, for terrorism.

"I do not want to diminish the sheer horror of this defendant's actions.

"Innocent people could have been injured, maimed or killed. It may be a mixture
of sheer good fortune and the defendant's incompetence that the damage was
restricted."

Mr Fuad said Reilly had been influenced by others on the Internet, where he
trawled through jihad websites to find out how to make nail bombs.

The judge said anything other than a long term of incarceration in a secure
institution was not possible.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           November 22, 2008 Saturday

Bomber 'not sorry' over restaurant terror attack;
Muslim convert Nicky Reilly, who tried to kill diners by blowing up a family
restaurant in Exeter, left a chilling suicide note revealing his hatred for what
he called Britain's "war on Islam", the Old Bailey has been told.

BYLINE: Olivier Vergnault

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 585 words


His note, found by police in his bedroom at his mother's flat in King Street,
Plymouth, blamed the "disgusting" behaviour of Britons, and the suffering of
Muslims at the hands of Britain, Israel and America, for the attack on the
Giraffe restaurant.

The note, printed in red ink, attacks drunkenness and sexual immorality as well
as the treatment of prisoners in Guantanamo Bay.

In it Reilly, 22, insists: "I have not been brainwashed or indoctrinated."

The note begins: "In the name of God most gracious, most merciful: why I did it.

"Everywhere Muslims are suffering at the hands of Britain, Israel and America.
We are sick of taking all the brutality from you. You have imprisoned over 1,000
Muslims in Britain alone in your war on Islam. You torture and destroy Muslim
lives by taking a father or a son or a brother, even you torture Muslim women."

Despite writing the note, making explosives,  making contact with terrorist
sites on the Internet and targeting the Exeter restaurant, his barrister Kerim
Fuad argued Reilly "lacked cunning" and is the least sophisticated person to be
charged with terrorism.

The failed bomber's suicide note was revealed  as Mr Fuad argued Reilly should
be made the subject of an interim hospital order, which could have delayed his
sentencing for at least 11 months.

But the application was rejected by Mr Justice Calvert-Smith who said: "A
year's wait until this young man is sentenced is simply out of the question."

He put off sentencing to January 30 to allow reports from two psychiatrists.

Reilly, who changed his name to Mohammad Rashid Saeed-Alim in 2004 in tribute to
the 9/11 New York suicide attackers, pleaded guilty last month to attempted
murder and preparing an act of terrorism.

The court was given details of how dozens of customers at the Giraffe restaurant
in Exeter fled in panic when three soft drink bottles exploded in the toilets on
May 22 this year.

The Old Bailey heard yesterday how Reilly's note went on to say: "In Britain,
it's OK for a girl to have sex without marriage and if she gets pregnant she can
get an abortion so easily.

"When you are getting drunk on Friday and Saturday night your behaviour is worse
than animals. You have sex in nightclub toilets. You urinate in shop doorways.
You shout your foul and disgusting mouth off in the street.

"It is unacceptable to Allah and the true religion Islam. Britain and USA and
Israel have no real rules.

"I have not been brainwashed or indoctrinated. I am not insane. I am not doing
it to escape a life of problems or hardships. I am doing what God wants from his
mujahideen. We love death as you love life. You kill one of my people, I kill
one of yours."

Mr Fuad told the court doctors had expressed concerns about the mental state of
Reilly who has Asperger's Syndrome and learning difficulties.

Mr Fuad said: "This defendant is not sophisticated in the slightest in any
aspect of his life. He may well be the least cunning person ever to have come
before this court for any offence of this magnitude, for terrorism.

"I do not want to diminish the sheer horror of this defendant's actions.

"Innocent people could have been injured, maimed or killed. It may be a mixture
of sheer good fortune and the defendant's incompetence that the damage was
restricted."

Mr Fuad said Reilly had been influenced by others on the Internet, where he
trawled through jihad websites to find out how to make nail bombs.

The judge said anything other than a long term of incarceration in a secure
institution was not possible.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           November 22, 2008 Saturday

Bomber 'not sorry' over restaurant terror attack;
Muslim convert Nicky Reilly, who tried to kill diners by blowing up a family
restaurant in Exeter, left a chilling suicide note revealing his hatred for what
he called Britain's "war on Islam", the Old Bailey has been told.

BYLINE: Olivier Vergnault

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 585  words


His note, found by police in his bedroom at his mother's flat in King Street,
Plymouth, blamed the "disgusting" behaviour of Britons, and the suffering of
Muslims at the hands of Britain, Israel and America, for the attack on the
Giraffe restaurant.

The note, printed in red ink, attacks drunkenness and sexual immorality as well
as the treatment of prisoners in Guantanamo Bay.

In it Reilly, 22, insists: "I have not been brainwashed or indoctrinated."

The note begins: "In the name of God most gracious, most merciful: why I did it.

"Everywhere Muslims are suffering at the hands of Britain, Israel and America.
We are sick of taking all the brutality from you. You have imprisoned over 1,000
Muslims in Britain alone in your war on Islam. You torture and destroy Muslim
lives by taking a father or a son or a brother, even you torture Muslim women."

Despite writing the note, making explosives,  making contact with terrorist
sites on the Internet and targeting the Exeter restaurant, his barrister Kerim
Fuad argued Reilly "lacked cunning" and is the least sophisticated person to be
charged with terrorism.

The failed bomber's suicide note was revealed  as Mr Fuad argued Reilly should
be made the subject of an interim hospital order, which could have delayed his
sentencing for at least 11 months.

But the application was rejected by Mr Justice Calvert-Smith who said: "A
year's wait until this young man is sentenced is simply out of the question."

He put off sentencing to January 30 to allow reports from two psychiatrists.

Reilly, who changed his name to Mohammad Rashid Saeed-Alim in 2004 in tribute to
the 9/11 New York suicide attackers, pleaded guilty last month to attempted
murder and preparing an act of terrorism.

The court was given details of how dozens of customers at the Giraffe restaurant
in Exeter fled in panic when three soft drink bottles exploded in the toilets on
May 22 this year.

The Old Bailey heard yesterday how Reilly's note went on to say: "In Britain,
it's OK for a girl to have sex without marriage and if she gets pregnant she can
get an abortion so easily.

"When you are getting drunk on Friday and Saturday night your behaviour is worse
than animals. You have sex in nightclub toilets. You urinate in shop doorways.
You shout your foul and disgusting mouth off in the street.

"It is unacceptable to Allah and the true religion Islam. Britain and USA and
Israel have no real rules.

"I have not been brainwashed or indoctrinated. I am not insane. I am not doing
it to escape a life of problems or hardships. I am doing what God wants from his
mujahideen. We love death as you love life. You kill one of my people, I kill
one of yours."

Mr Fuad told the court doctors had expressed concerns about the mental state of
Reilly who has Asperger's Syndrome and learning difficulties.

Mr Fuad said: "This defendant is not sophisticated in the slightest in any
aspect of his life. He may well be the least cunning person ever to have come
before this court for any offence of this magnitude, for terrorism.

"I do not want to diminish the sheer horror of this defendant's actions.

"Innocent people could have been injured, maimed or killed. It may be a mixture
of sheer good fortune and the defendant's incompetence that the damage was
restricted."

Mr Fuad said Reilly had been influenced by others on the Internet, where he
trawled through jihad websites to find out how to make nail bombs.

The judge said anything other than a long term of incarceration in a secure
institution was not possible.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            November 24, 2008 Monday
                                   A Edition

Students urged to boycott terror attack competition

BYLINE: ELLEN WIDDUP

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 149 words


A LEADING architect has demanded students boycott a Home Office competition to
redesign a hypothetical terrorist bomb site.

Piers Gough said the contest fostered a "culture of fear".

In a brief, written by the Royal Society of Arts and the Royal Institute of
British Architects, students are asked to come up with a scheme for a fictional
public square which has been attacked by suicide bombers, leaving 500 dead and
1,500 injured. It asks them to rebuild it to withstand future attacks by
limiting the amount of glass and masonry cladding or by building barriers to car
bombs.

The winner will receive a £2,000 prize but Mr Gough said it was an exercise in
"the propagation of paranoia". "On no account should architects or students give
succour to this," he said.

John-Paul Nunes, Riba's head of education, said: "This competition is about
promoting good design, not creating a bunker mentality."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 25, 2008 Tuesday

Blast in Russia's second city was no terror attack - officials

LENGTH: 269 words


The blast in St Petersburg is highly unlikely to have been a terrorist attack,
Russian police officials have said, as broadcast by Russian Defence
Ministry-controlled Zvezda TV news on 25 November.

"The victims have been partly identified. The theory of a terrorist attack is
highly unlikely. Other theories of the crime are being investigated but, I
repeat, the theory of a terrorist attack is not the main one," Aleksandr Klaus,
acting head of the St Petersburg investigations directorate of the
Investigations Committee under the Prosecutor-General's Office, told Zvezda TV.
He also said that the power of the blast amounted to 50-100 g of TNT.

Earlier Interfax news agency quoted Vladislav Piotrovskiy, the St Petersburg
police chief, as saying that law-enforcement agencies were not considering the
theory of a terrorist attack. "There was no crime. There was no terrorist attack
- the grenade blew up spontaneously. It is still not clear where the grenade
that the man had on him came from. By the end of the day we shall be able see a
general picture of what has happened," Piotrovskiy told journalists.

A search is going on at the flat of the deceased, he added.

Piotrovskiy also told Interfax that the head of the family killed in the
explosion was a former serviceman. He used to work at an airfield in Khabarovsk
Territory. In St Petersburg he was working as a real estate lawyer.

A criminal case has been opened into the incident on charges of murder of two or
more people, the agency added.

Sources: Zvezda TV, Moscow, in Russian 1000 gmt 25 Nov 08; Interfax news agency,
Moscow, in Russian 0958 gmt 25 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 25, 2008 Tuesday

Agencies warn of terror attacks at Pakistani ministries, airport

LENGTH: 261 words


Text of report headlined "Taleban plan to strike Karachi airport, ministries" by
Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 25 November

[by Faraz Khan]

Karachi [Sindh Province]: Intelligence agencies have warned of a suicide attack
at the Karachi airport as well as ministries in Islamabad during the current
month, Daily Times learnt on Monday [24 November].

The Interior Ministry, after receiving information from intelligence agencies,
has informed law enforcement agencies that the month of November would be
crucial and terrorists have planned to carry out suicide attacks at Jinnah
International Airport Karachi, and also at the offices of various ministries in
Islamabad.

No further detail about the modus operandi of the terrorists was disclosed in
the intelligence information conveyed to the Interior Ministry. The authorities
have directed law enforcement agencies to take immediate action to ensure
security at the airport and the ministries' offices. A source privy to the
matter, seeking anonymity, told Daily Times that terrorists have planned to
strike in prominent cities of the country in retaliation to the ongoing
operation in the Tribal Areas and have dispatched suicide bombers to Karachi,
Lahore and Islamabad. The source added that intelligence agencies have also sent
complete details of two would-be suicide bombers recently dispatched by the
leader of defunct TTP [Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan], after which law enforcement
agencies and the intelligence network have been put on high alert.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 25 Nov 08

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     November 25, 2008 Tuesday 3:49 PM BST

ACCUSED DOCTOR 'HAD NIGGLE' OVER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Neil Lancefield, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 731 words


An NHS doctor accused of terrorism today described the moment he realised his
friend could be involved in a car bombing campaign.

Mohammed Asha, 28, said he had ``a niggle'' that his co-defendant and friend
Bilal Abdulla, 29, was to blame.

Woolwich Crown Court heard the neurologist became more confident that Abdulla
was involved.

Speaking in his third day of evidence, Asha said he feared he should have
realised earlier.

``Was I supposed to read a message that I didn't know at the time. The feeling
wasn't strong, it was a niggle.

``It grew stronger with time. I tried to resist it, stop it and do something
else,'' he said.

The jury heard that Asha initially doubted that Abdulla was guilty because of
his personality.

He said; ``It was definitely a strong suspicion but never became anything
stronger than that.

``Bilal was a big part of me, I didn't want to believe it.

``Bilal is very passionate and he speaks his mind.''

He said he thought it was ``all hot air or bravado or attention-seeking'' and
didn't think he would do anything.

After hearing about an attack on Glasgow Airport on the television news, Asha
decided to get rid of books and paperwork, some of which had come from Abdulla.

He told the court that because they included the word Allah he couldn't just
throw them in the bin.

He tried burning them on the barbecue in his garden but it was raining so, after
driving to a supermarket, he put them in a private bin that he found.

He said that he needed to throw these things away and ``wasn't trying to dispose
of evidence or anything''.

Asha and Abdulla are on trial accused of conspiracy to murder and to cause
explosions last summer.

They deny the offences.

The men were behind car bomb attacks on London's West End and a suicide attack
on Glasgow Airport, the court has heard.

Kafeel Ahmed died of burns several weeks after he drove a jeep into the airport
and smothered himself in burning petrol.

Asha had earlier told the court of a meeting with Abdulla and Ahmed while he was
working at the University Hospital of North Staffordshire prior to the Glasgow
attack.

He said Abdulla called him because he urgently needed to pick up two envelopes
which he had previously given to Asha to deliver to his parents on a forthcoming
trip home to Jordan.

He said: ``Eventually he rang me and he said, 'where are you?'

``I looked across the road. He said, 'I'm here'. I looked and saw they were
opposite.

``What happened is for some reason he didn't want to come inside.

``He explained he's in a rush. He needed to get his envelopes.''

The jury heard Abdulla then offered to pay back £250 of the £750 Asha had lent
him, before he left on a trip.

The court heard Abdulla had said: ``I can't wait any longer. I'm going for a
holiday.''

Asha continued: ``It struck me because he hadn't mentioned it. I asked him where
he was going. He said, 'I'll call you later'.''

Asha added that Abdulla concluded the meeting by asking him to pray for him.

He added: ``At the time it felt absolutely normal, something that Bilal would
ask for and say all the time.

``Kafeel is a strange guy; he rarely speaks, even in a normal visit. He was very
calm. I can't remember if he said anything.''

Asha was arrested on the M6 motorway as he was driving to Manchester to go to a
jewellery shop with his wife.

When he was taken to a police station he said he was reluctant to give Abdulla's
name to police but did so on further questioning.

``At that point I honestly hated myself. I thought I was a Judas.

``Having made a great sacrifice and given the name of my best friend Bilal, who
I had tried to help and get his life in order, now I'm destroying his life.''

He went on: ``The theme of the friendship was to help him build a life, get him
stable and build some roots, bring his family over.''

Earlier in the trial, Abdulla, who worked as a junior doctor at the Royal
Alexandra Hospital, Paisley, said he admitted committing a crime and accepted
responsibility for his actions, but insisted he did not want to kill anyone.

Asha said Abdulla was in favour of attacks on British troops in Iraq and that he
wondered if his friend thought attacking the British at home seemed to be the
same thing.

He added that Abdulla changed after he met Ahmed.

``He became more secretive, more vague.

``I didn't understand what he was up to,'' he said.

But he insisted: ``I didn't have any specific suspicions about him.''

The trial continues tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2008 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                          November 26, 2008 Wednesday

Report to highlight terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Fiona Mcwhirter

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Disasters; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 145 words


TERRORIST attacks, gas explosions and extreme flooding were today among the
risks highlighted by a North-east safety group.

The Grampian Strategic Coordinating Group (SCG) was the first in Scotland to
publish its plan of action for dealing with emergencies.

Road To Resilience outlines how organisations can work together to prepare for
and cope with crises.

Grampian Police chief constable Colin McKerracher, pictured, who is the area's
SCG chairman, said: "Our vision is for the responder organisations to work
effectively to prepare for, respond to and recover from civil emergencies."

The group  also includes representatives from Grampian Fire and Rescue Service,
the military and NHS Grampian.

Mr McKerracher said that national risks such as terrorism were accompanied in
the North-east by local issues such as risks for the oil and gas industry and
also severe weather.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2008 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                          November 26, 2008 Wednesday

Report to highlight terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Fiona Mcwhirter

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Disasters; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 145 words


TERRORIST attacks, gas explosions and extreme flooding were today among the
risks highlighted by a North-east safety group.

The Grampian Strategic Coordinating Group (SCG) was the first in Scotland to
publish its plan of action for dealing with emergencies.

Road To Resilience outlines how organisations can work together to prepare for
and cope with crises.

Grampian Police chief constable Colin McKerracher, pictured, who is the area's
SCG chairman, said: "Our vision is for the responder organisations to work
effectively to prepare for, respond to and recover from civil emergencies."

The group also includes representatives from Grampian Fire and Rescue Service,
the military and NHS Grampian.

Mr McKerracher said that national risks such as terrorism were accompanied in
the North-east by local issues such as risks for the oil and gas industry and
also severe weather.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EE


                      Copyright 2008 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 26, 2008 Wednesday

Bosnian police official details "Islamic" terror group "planning" attack

LENGTH: 2318 words


Text of report by Bosnian wide-circulation privately-owned daily Dnevni avaz, on
22 November

[Sedmica supplement interview with Zlatko Miletic, director of B-H Federation
Police Administration, by Mirela Kukan; place and date not given: "Brutal
Showdowns Between So-Called Albanian, Sarajevan Mafias Are a Possibility" --
first two paragraphs are Dnevni Avaz introduction]

There have been many arrests made over the past month. From the quick resolution
of the case of explosion in the FIS Vitez shopping mall, through the arrest of a
suspect in the assassination of Nacional co-owner Ivo Pukanic, to the search for
Zeljko Milovanovic and the case of "Gasi and others." Zlatko Miletic, the
director of the B-H [Bosnia-Hercegovina] Federation Police Administration (FUP),
said that the arrests would not have been so successful if it was not for the
cooperation among all police agencies in Bosnia-Hercegovina.

He told Dnevni Avaz that there in particular would not have been efficiency
without the help of the B-H Intelligence and Security Agency (OSA). All these
cases, however, have upset the citizens, despite that they have showed that the
police are doing a good job.

Espionage Activities

[Kukan] The State and the B-H Federation Parliament asked to have a discussion
about the security situation in Bosnia-Hercegovina. What kind of answers can you
give?

[Miletic] Statistically, the security situation in the B-H Federation is more
favourable than in the same period last year. The number of crimes reported has
dropped by 8 per cent. Statistics, however, is not the only indicator, and I
completely agree with the citizens' sentiments, which for us are much more
important. However, in order to improve the situation and the standard of
living, we have to move in three directions.

The first is that each citizen in a way becomes responsible for security. I am
not talking about them becoming involved in espionage activities; they truly
have to make the police agencies -- and this is the second direction -- serve
the citizens. The third direction -- and a very important one -- is that
political office holders in the B-H Federation realize that there is no economic
prosperity in Bosnia-Hercegovina without the establishment of a system of
justice. Police agencies are just one segment of security into which they must
invest money in order to have as the final result a safe environment, and this
in turn will attract both foreign and domestic capital and investments, and
create jobs.

[Kukan] Could you tell us what you have learned about the motives for the
terrorist attack on the FIS Vitez shopping mall?

[Miletic] I could not because we still have an ongoing intensive investigation
conducted by the B-H Prosecutor's Office. We are still working on identifying
the person who ordered this criminal act.

[Kukan] Do you have more information about the arrested Elvis Hadzic from Velika
Kladusa and his links to the Pukanic assassination?

[Miletic] We received information that led us to this person from the Croatian
MUP's [Interior Ministry] administration. We managed to link this person to two
elements of this severe crime. On the day of the assassination he was in Zagreb,
and we found some of the explosives in his house. This does not mean that this
person was directly involved, but we, in cooperation with the prosecution and
the state court, are still processing him; we will be in a position to say more
when forensic examinations and other operations are completed.

[Kukan] In addition to this, the FUP almost daily detains people who had
contacts with Muhamed Ali Gasi, during the trial against him and others accused
of forming a criminal organization. How come Gasi had a mobile telephone in
prison, and what have you learned from his wiretapped conversations?

[Miletic] As for possession of a mobile telephone, you have to ask the
responsible ministry. This, however, is an obvious indicator that we urgently
need a reform of the prison system. As for the contents of the taped
conversations, I am not at liberty to provide any information because the
investigation is ongoing.

[Kukan] A part of the wiretapped conversations was disclosed to the media. Over
the past 15 days several lawyers called our journalists to say that the
disclosure of recordings was illegal and was jeopardizing the investigation. Are
there any elements here, as the lawyers said, of a criminal act?

[Miletic] I think that lawyers are sufficiently trained in the law to know who
they must turn to in this regard. In charge of this are the judicial bodies;
thus, the issue of whether we have elements of a criminal act in this case needs
to be assessed by the responsible prosecutor or judicial body.

Police Authorities

[Kukan] Have FUP Inspector Edin Vranj and his family received adequate security
measures after it was learned from the wiretapped conversations between Gasi and
Senad Sahinpasic that hideous threats were made to his underage daughter?

[Miletic] Yes, they have. The FUP has done everything it should have done. In
addition to Vranj, we have another two police officers who have received threats
from other criminal groups. I may not be more specific about this, but it is
important that these groups know that, as far as the FUP is concerned, we will
do all that it takes to protect our police officers and, of course, their
families.

[Kukan] Have you been exposed to threats as well? We have information that
direct threats were made to you and your child during a trial in Travnik?

[Miletic] I really would not like to comment on this because it is unnecessary.

[Kukan] Along with the disclosure of the wiretapped conversations and arrests of
people who may be linked to Gasi, a bloody incident happened in Sarajevo's
Incognito cafe. Do the police have information about the possibility of even
more brutal mafia showdowns? There have been rumours about the possibility of a
conflict between the so-called Albanian and Sarajevan mafias?

[Miletic] It is important to note that police officers of the Sarajevo Canton
MUP managed to shed light on every single detail of what transpired there.
Unfortunately, the perpetrators are out of reach of the police authorities, and
we are conducting intensive operations in our country and abroad to find them.
My strong recommendation to them would be to contact us as soon as possible.

As for the possible conflicts that you mentioned, we do not have reliable
information that they could occur, but this is an environment where such a
possibility may not be ruled out. In any case, heads of police agencies have
been considering this possibility, and we stand ready to act in every sense of
the word.

[Kukan] Despite your successful work, in the previous month the B-H Federation
police officers were one of the few budget beneficiaries whose salaries were
late. Why?

[Miletic] You have to ask the B-H Federation Government. We have a correct
relationship with it in terms of the financing, but we are afraid of the
forthcoming period. In the next three months we will need around 7.6 million
convertible marks [KM], and I hope that a way will be found to pay the salaries.
Another segment is that, due to the new situation and problems that other budget
beneficiaries have, our funds necessary for regular operations are blocked.

On the other hand, we have several things in plan for next year, and we will ask
for a budget increase not because of the salaries, but because of the
operational requirements that mainly have to do with the procurement of
equipment and staffing, because we are still short of around 40 percent of
inspectors.

Sports Grounds

[Kukan] As for the canton and B-H Federation laws on interior, do they need to
be amended for the sake of harmonized operations of all police forces in the B-H
Federation?

[Miletic] We have had problems in that regard for a long time now. We have no
new interior laws because of a lack of political consensus for over two years. I
do not wish to prejudge things, but we need police commissioners' operational
and financial autonomy. In this way police management bodies would be much more
efficient and would in turn be more responsible.

We also have not resolved laws to prevent violence in sports events, and we
probably will soon have to be forced to ban spectators from stadiums that do not
meet requirements for holding of soccer matches.

Furthermore, we still do not have a law to fight terrorism at the state level. I
am not only talking about Islamic terrorism, but about other forms as well, and
trafficking in humans, prevention of money laundering, and confiscation of
illegally acquired property. Current provisions are not sufficient and are not
sufficiently implemented.

[Kukan] What are the examples of Islamic terrorism in Bosnia-Hercegovina?

[Miletic] We are currently investigating and documenting activities of a group
that has set a goal of perpetrating a terrorist act with a political background.
It is highly worrying when someone obtains a suicide belt. The question is what
he intends to do with it, who he wants to kill? We sooner or later will have to
deal with this issue in Bosnia-Hercegovina in a completely different and
thorough manner. Not by providing space to Islamophobes to portray
Bosnia-Hercegovina as it is not, but we do have people who do not mean well to
Bosnia-Hercegovina, Muslims, Bosniaks, and other ethnic groups alike.

[Kukan] Could you be more specific about this group? You mean the Wahhabis?

[Miletic] No. Wahhabis have essentially become a synonym for this kind of
terrorism. These are Salafis. We have four groups of these people, of which two
are of great interest of us, considering their way of thinking, views, and ideas
how to solve problems in Bosnia-Hercegovina and the world -- in this sense they
are planning some aggressive or militarist measures.

[Kukan] Is their arrest in the works? Is the person who obtained the suicide
belt still at large?

[Miletic] This person has been detained. We, however, are investigating another
group of people who intended to perpetrate a serious terrorist act in
Bosnia-Hercegovina. I cannot discuss details; we are working together with the
B-H Prosecutor's Office, and I hope that we will manage to obtain evidence.

Support Network

[Kukan] Does our country need the so-called "anti-mafia" laws, by which everyone
would have to prove the provenance of their property, without the state having
to prove it?

[Miletic] Mafia in every sense of the word, as a synonym, does exist in
Bosnia-Hercegovina; but when you look at the aspects of what this truly implies,
it then does not exist in Bosnia-Hercegovina [as published]. It implies things
like control of a territory and involvement of public and political office
holders in criminal activities. We do not have these elements, but it is certain
that we have a range of organized groups, criminal organizations even, and we
have to deal with these problems in earnest.

We urgently need some 10 laws to give the police the mechanisms to do their job.
For example, it is incomprehensible that our country adopted a strategy to
detect and capture war criminals only 13 years after the war ended. The network
helping these people hide is strongly linked to organized crime. Our strategies
to fight terrorism and organized crime will expire in June next year, but there
are no bodies in Bosnia-Hercegovina monitoring the implementation of these
measures, which practically means that they are not being applied.

We also need to amend the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code,
especially in regard to custody measures, which have to be applied more
frequently, particularly for repeat offenders.

[p 2] Attack on Mosque in Mostar

[Miletic] As for terrorist acts, in order to avoid confusion, we recently had a
terrorist attack on a mosque in Mostar, which was committed by a Croat.
Important in this regard is regional cooperation; our colleagues in Croatia's
MUP met our request and we were able to get to the perpetrator and prove
criminal intent. So, these are not just Muslims. In Bosnia-Hercegovina we have a
range of other acts with elements of terrorism. Although Bosnia-Hercegovina may
often be accused of this, our findings show that EU countries have bigger
problems with terrorism than Bosnia-Hercegovina.

Special Investigative Operations

[Miletic] We asked that the bar be raised for the application of special
investigative operations. I particularly am referring to corruption. We have the
"report card" case in Croatia, and the situation is no better in
Bosnia-Hercegovina, but we do not have the mechanisms to detect and prevent such
cases. Citizens are very dissatisfied about this, including corruption in the
health care sector and to a certain extent in the police as well. These crimes
are very difficult to prove with the measures currently applied; we may not
apply special investigative operations such as interception of telephone calls,
operational surveillance of some group, and so on, because low prison sentences
are envisaged for these crimes.

Our Helicopters Are in Slovenia, Serbia

[Miletic] We will suggest to the government and the parliament to resolve after
so many years the problem of design and procurement of police uniforms for all
police forces in B-H Federation. We need over KM40 million to do this for some
8,300 police officers. Another problem is different salary levels in the B-H
Federation. The worst situation in the Central Bosnian Canton -- police officers
there have meagre salaries. We want each police officer to have the same wages.

We will also request that FUP get a helicopter to be at the service of citizens.
Unfortunately, due to the incompetence of state bodies, Bosnia-Hercegovina still
has not got back three helicopters that were confiscated at the beginning of the
aggression against Bosnia-Hercegovina; one is in Slovenia, two are in Serbia.

Source: Dnevni avaz, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 22 Nov 08, pp 2,3

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                    November 26, 2008 Wednesday 07:30 PM GMT

78 dead in India terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 574 words


At least 78 people were killed and 200 injured today when gunmen opened fire on
a crowded Mumbai railway station, luxury hotels and a restaurant popular with
tourists.

Johnny Joseph, chief secretary for Maharashtra state in India, of which Mumbai
is the capital, says the death toll could rise further.

The gunmen attacked the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus station in southern Mumbai
and Leopold's restaurant, a Mumbai landmark, along with the Oberoi and Taj Mahal
hotels.

The motive for the attacks was not immediately clear but Mumbai has frequently
been targeted in terror attacks, often blamed on Muslim militants, including a
series of blasts in July last year that killed 187 people.

Several European MEPs were among those barricaded inside the Taj, a century-old
seaside hotel complex and one of the city's best-known destinations.

Sajjad Karim, part of a delegation of MEPs visiting Mumbai ahead of a
forthcoming EU-India summit, said: "I was in the main lobby and there was all of
a sudden a lot of firing outside."

He turned to get away "and all of a sudden another gunman appeared in front of
us, carrying machine gun-type weapons. And he just started firing at us ... I
just turned and ran in the opposite direction," he said.

Hours later, he remained holed up in the hotel, unsure if the incident was over,
and whether it was safe to come out.

"We have no idea what's going on," he said.

Arvind Kodekar was at a wedding reception at the Taj Mahal when an explosion
rang out.

He said: "When we heard the sound of the blast, everyone - the bride, the groom,
everyone - just ran. We heard the sound of two blasts and we just ran."

At the Oberoi, police officer P.I. Patil said shots were fired inside and the
hotel had been cordoned off.

Mumbai General Railway Police Commissioner A.K. Sharma said several men armed
with rifles and grenades were holed up in the railway station.

Leopold's restaurant was riddled with bullet holes and there were blood stains
on the floor and shoes left by fleeing customers.

India has been wracked by deadly bomb attacks in recent years, which police
blame on Muslim militants intent on destabilising the largely Hindu country.

Since October 2005, nearly 700 people have died in the bombings. And since May a
militant group calling itself the Indian Mujahideen has taken credit for a
string of blasts that have killed more than 130.

The most recent was in September when a series of explosions struck a park and
crowded shopping areas in the capital, New Delhi, killing 21 people and wounding
about 100 others.

Mumbai has been hit repeatedly by terror attacks since March 1993, when Muslim
underworld figures tied to Pakistani militants allegedly carried out a series of
bombings on Mumbai's stock exchange, trains, hotels and petrol stations.

Authorities said those attacks, which killed 257 people and wounded more than
1,100, were carried out to avenge the deaths of hundreds of Muslims in religious
riots which swept India.

Ten years later, in 2003, 52 people were killed in Mumbai bombings blamed on
Muslim militants and in July last year a series of seven blasts ripped through
railway trains and commuter stations. At least 187 died in those attacks.

Relations between Hindus, who make up more than 80% of India's population, and
Muslims, who make up about 14%, have been relatively peaceful since
British-ruled India was split into independent India and Pakistan in 1947, but
there have been sporadic bouts of violence.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2008 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Brentwood Gazette

                               November 26, 2008

Brentwood: A12 missile attack terror;
This week the Gazette calls on police to put an end to the concrete hurling yobs
terrorising our roads after yet another motorist cheated death on the A12.

BYLINE: Paul Dent-Jones

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 584 words


On Saturday, a 30-year-old from Brentwood narrowly avoided tragedy when a huge
lump of concrete was thrown onto the road from an overhead bridge at the road's
junction with the A130 at Howe Green, smashing his windscreen and ploughing into
his arm.

Less than an hour later at 7.20pm another driver was targeted at the Brentwood
turn off on the A12.

A giant slab of stone was left in the road and punctured all four tyres of a
grey Honda Civic, but fortunately the 28-year-old driver from Chelmsford escaped
unscathed.

But these sinister attacks follow a spate of 12 similarly terrifying incidents
since the start of November, which have caused horror among the community.

Ken Leader's car was hit by a brick on November 6 when he was driving to work
with a colleague on the A12 towards Brentwood, under the Writtle Road bridge at
around 10.30pm.

But despite the seriousness of the incident he says he was frustrated at the
police's lack of willingness to investigate.

He told the Gazette: "The way I see it this was an attempt on both our lives, we
were nearly murdered and the police failed to react in any way shape or form.

"The incident has left me shaken and financially out of pocket due to the £200
excess on my insurance.

"My real concern though is that something will only be done after someone has
been killed, which to be honest is only a matter of time."

Last week the Gazette revealed how drivers had to swerve to avoid falling debris
along the Brentwood and Chelmsford stretches of the A12 on Wednesday, November
12.

A concrete block smashed through the windscreen of David Greenwood's lorry as he
passed under Church Road, Mountnessing, at the height of rush hour.

The 49-year-old from Middlesbrough suffered a slight shoulder injury and was hit
in the face with flying debris inside the cab. Approximately £7,000 worth of
damage was caused to the truck.

Six more drivers were hit that evening.

And in October we revealed how a taxi driver and his passenger escaped unharmed
when a concrete slab was dropped onto the vehicle as they passed under a bridge
just before Shenfield.

Brentwood and Ongar MP Eric Pickles commended the Gazette's awareness campaign
adding: "Dropping concrete slabs onto a busy roadway like the A12 shows either
complete lack of understanding of normal logic and consequence or negligence and
indifference to human life.

"So far we've had a number of serious incidents but fortunately no one has been
killed but this is a ticking clock and I think we'd expect the perpetrators to
be found, to be stopped, and to be punished."

Officers responded immediately to the most recent incidents, also making use of
the force's helicopter, however no one was caught.

Police have since stepped up patrols and road policing Chief Inspector Tom
Diment said: "These incidents have now progressed from causing criminal damage
to almost breaking the arm of one motorist and next time the outcome could be
fatal.

"Whoever is responsible for these criminal acts needs to be stopped before
someone is killed.

He added: "We are also particularly interested to find out where the concrete is
coming from and would ask anyone who has noticed any going missing, perhaps from
a building site or private house, to contact us as soon as possible."

Chief Superintendent Mick Thwaites, commander of the Mobile Support Division,
said the force was committing its full resources to finding the people
responsible for "these reckless acts."

Anyone with information should call 0300 333 4444 or anonymously on 0800 555
111.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 107


                        Copyright 2008 Brentwood Gazette
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1001 - 1500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:45:16

