



Download Request: Select Items: 501-893
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:06:54
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 20, 2012 Friday 4:50 PM GMT

Man guilty of funding Stockhold terror attack

BYLINE: Karrie Gillett

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 105 words


An Algerian national has been found guilty of funding terrorism but cleared of
conspiracy to murder following a suicide bombing in Stockholm.

Nasserdine Menni was convicted of transferring money to Taimour Abdulwahab, who
later blew himself up in the Swedish capital on December 11 2010.

A jury at the High Court in Glasgow found a charge that Menni conspired to
murder members of the Swedish public not proven.

Menni, whose age is not known, was also convicted of immigration and benefit
fraud.

Addressing trial judge Lord Matthews as he left the dock, Menni said: "My Lord,
I thank you very much for the justice in Scotland."

PA

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2012 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        July 20, 2012 Friday 4:50 PM GMT

Man guilty of funding Stockholm terror attack

BYLINE: Karrie Gillett

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 105 words


An Algerian national has been found guilty of funding terrorism but cleared of
conspiracy to murder following a suicide bombing in Stockholm.

Nasserdine Menni was convicted of transferring money to Taimour Abdulwahab, who
later blew himself up in the Swedish capital on December 11 2010.

A jury at the High Court in Glasgow found a charge that Menni conspired to
murder members of the Swedish public not proven.

Menni, whose age is not known, was also convicted of immigration and benefit
fraud.

Addressing trial judge Lord Matthews as he left the dock, Menni said: "My Lord,
I thank you very much for the justice in Scotland."

PA

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2012 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                             PA Newswire: Scotland

                        July 20, 2012 Friday 4:26 PM BST

MAN GUILTY OF FUNDING TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Karrie Gillett, Press Association Scotland

SECTION: PA Newswire: Scotland

LENGTH: 740 words


An Algerian national has been found guilty of funding terrorism but cleared of
conspiracy to murder following a suicide bombing in Stockholm.

Nasserdine Menni was convicted of transferring money to Taimour Abdulwahab, who
later blew himself up in the Swedish capital on December 11 2010.

A jury at the High Court in Glasgow found a charge that Menni conspired to
murder members of the Swedish public not proven.

Menni, whose age is not known, was also convicted of immigration and benefit
fraud.

Addressing trial judge Lord Matthews as he left the dock, Menni said: ``My Lord,
I thank you very much for the justice in Scotland.''

Jurors took just over nine hours to clear Menni of an allegation that he
conspired with Abdulwahab to further terrorist aims in carrying out the bombing
with intent to murder members of the public.

But, following a 12-week trial, he was found guilty of sending a total of £5,725
to a bank account in Abdulwahab's name in the knowledge that it could be used
for terrorism purposes.

Abdulwahab rigged an Audi car with explosives in the hope it would drive people
to Drottninggatan, a busy shopping street about 200 yards away, where he was
waiting to set off two more devices strapped to his chest and back.

The car bomb never went off, and after setting fire to the Audi he was unable to
detonate the other two explosives as planned.

He made his way down a side street off Drottninggatan and, in an apparent
attempt to fix the faulty trigger up his sleeve, set off the bomb on the front
of his body, killing only himself.

David Harvie, director of serious casework for the Crown Office and Procurator
Fiscal Service, said: ``Nasserdine Menni has today been brought to justice for a
terrorist act which culminated in the Stockholm suicide bombing of 2010.

``He was involved in the financing of this attack which was intended to murder
members of the public in Sweden. It was only good fortune which prevented
members of the public being killed.

``His guilt has been established by a meticulous and painstaking inquiry by
Scottish law enforcement working with their Swedish and UK counterparts.

``I hope his conviction sends a clear message to the tiny extremist minority,
who are not in any way representative of the Muslim community in Scotland:
anyone contemplating terrorist crimes should know that law enforcement will
bring you to justice.''

Menni transferred the money to Abdulwahab between January 2005 and December
2010. He moved to Glasgow in 2009 after living in Luton, where he is believed to
have first met Abdulwahab, for five years.

He was a bogus Kuwaiti asylum seeker, and claimed he was escaping persecution.
He worked in bars and restaurants around the city and lived at an asylum
seeker's hostel.

He obtained a false French passport and identity documents to open a bank
account and later claimed benefits he was not entitled to.

Police swooped on him in February last year following three months of constant
surveillance in which they established contact between the pair.

For five days, he answered every question put to him by detectives with ``no
comment''.

Menni also transferred £1,000 to the bomber's wife Mona Thwany, 29, after
Abulwahab died.

She claimed in court that it was ``a cultural thing'' to look after the family
members of someone who had died.

Strathclyde Police's investigation was supported by the FBI, as well as the
Metropolitan Police's anti-terrorism branch and forces in Sweden and France.

A date of birth for Menni is still not known, but officers believe him to be
around 31 or 32 years old.

After the verdicts were returned, Lord Matthews thanked the jury and also
expressed his gratitude to an interpreter who sat beside Menni throughout the
three-month trial.

Menni will be sentenced at the High Court in Glasgow on August 27.

Detective Chief Superintendent John Cuddihy, from Strathclyde Police, said: ``I
think that today sends out a clear message that the communities of Strathclyde
and Scotland, when working with law enforcement, can demonstrate and commit a
severe blow to terrorism by the arrest of Menni.

``I would say primarily he (Menni) was an accomplished liar.

``He was an individual who could adopt a number of personas, whether that was a
French national, a resident in Luton working for a car company or whether that
was an individual who purported to be a Kuwaiti asylum seeker, or ultimately as
his true identity: an Algerian national living amongst the Arabic community.''

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2012 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                        July 20, 2012 Friday 3:43 PM BST

MADRID ATTACK TERRORIST DENIED BAIL

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 383 words


One of Spain's most wanted terrorists, who was arrested in Greater London last
month, has been denied bail despite a ruling by the European Court of Human
Rights (ECHR).

Antonio Troitino, 55, orchestrated and carried out a bombing in Madrid that
killed 12 and injured 43 of the Spanish Civil Guard and injured 17 civilians in
July 1986.

He was part of the Basque separatist group Eta. The terrorist cell he was
operating in obtained a vehicle which they prepared as an explosive device,
filling it with five pressure cookers and bolts and chain links, connected to
35kg of plastic explosives with remote trigger detonators.

He was sentenced to 2,232 years in prison but served 24 years before being
released in April 2011, Westminster Magistrates' Court heard. Just days after,
the decision to release Troitino was overturned by Spanish authorities under the
``Parot doctrine'', but he had already left the country for Britain.

The Parot doctrine states that any reduction in jail terms for Spanish prisoners
must now be deducted from the total sentence rather than the 30-year maximum. It
comes from a change in case law arising from a Spanish Supreme Court ruling in
2006 and the authorities have used it to retroactively increase prison
sentences.

The Spanish authorities are now seeking to extradite Troitino back to Spain to
serve the remaining 2,096 days of his 30-year maximum term.

But a recent ECHR judgment in a similar case ruled the Parot doctrine in breach
of Articles 5 and 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). The
Spanish government are looking to appeal the ruling, which would mean Troitino
could be extradited in the future, but at present any extradition and further
imprisonment would be in breach of his human rights, the court heard.

A successful appeal could take 12 to 18 months. Despite this, Judge Daphne
Wickham denied Troitino bail, saying there was a high risk he would flee.

After Troitino's arrest during a dawn raid on a shared property in Hounslow last
month, officers from Scotland Yard found £8,000 in cash and numerous false
travel documents.

Troitino appeared alongside Inaki Lerin Sanchez, who is also described by the
Spanish authorities as a senior member of Eta. Troitino and Sanchez will next
appear for separate procedural hearings on August 17. end

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2012 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 20, 2012 Friday 3:28 PM BST

MADRID ATTACK TERRORIST DENIED BAIL

BYLINE: Arj Singh, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 528 words


One of Spain's most wanted terrorists, who killed 12 and injured 60 in one bomb
attack, was denied bail today despite a ruling by the European Court of Human
Rights (ECHR).

Antonio Troitino, 55, orchestrated and carried out a bombing in Madrid that
killed 12 and injured 43 of the Spanish Civil Guard and injured 17 civilians in
July 1986.

He was part of the Basque separatist group Eta. The terrorist cell he was
operating in obtained a vehicle which they prepared as an explosive device,
filling it with five pressure cookers and bolts and chain links, connected to
35kg of plastic explosives with remote trigger detonators.

He was sentenced to 2,232 years in prison but served 24 years before being
released in April 2011, Westminster Magistrates' Court heard today.

The maximum term that prisoners can serve in Spain is 30 years.

Just days after, the decision to release Troitino was overturned by Spanish
authorities under the ``Parot doctrine'', but he had already left the country
for Britain.

The Parot doctrine states that any reduction in jail terms for Spanish prisoners
must now be deducted from the total sentence rather than the 30-year maximum.

It comes from a change in case law arising from a Spanish Supreme Court ruling
in 2006 and the authorities have used it to retroactively increase prison
sentences.

The Spanish authorities are now seeking to extradite Troitino back to Spain to
serve the remaining 2,096 days of his 30-year maximum term.

But a recent ECHR judgment in a similar case ruled the Parot doctrine in breach
of Articles 5 and 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR).

The Spanish government are looking to appeal the ruling, which would mean
Troitino could be extradited in the future, but at present any extradition and
further imprisonment would be in breach of his human rights, the court heard.

A successful appeal could take 12 to 18 months.

Despite this, Judge Daphne Wickham denied Troitino bail, saying there was a high
risk he would flee.

After Troitino's arrest during a dawn raid on a shared property in Hounslow last
month, officers from Scotland Yard found £8,000 in cash and numerous false
travel documents.

The judge said: ``He was of course charged and convicted of a very serious
offence. It is said in the European arrest warrant that he has five years
outstanding to serve.

``He was released from custody and left Spain shortly after that and came here.
He has been living in a multiple occupancy house where there were found false
documents.

``Notwithstanding the European judgment, there is reason to believe the
defendant would not wish to participate in these proceedings any further and on
that basis bail is refused.''

Troitino appeared alongside Inaki Lerin Sanchez, who is also described by the
Spanish authorities as a senior member of Eta.

Sanchez is suspected of being involved in terrorist attacks after the Spanish
authorities raided his home in March 2007 and found 150kg of explosives,
bomb-making equipment and Eta literature.

The 39-year-old, who had already fled, faces a maximum sentence of 12 years if
is he is convicted.

Troitino and Sanchez will next appear for separate procedural hearings on August
17.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2012 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                         Prestwich and Whitefield Guide

                                 July 20, 2012

Prestwich was 'set to be target' of terrorist attack

SECTION: BURY NEWS (BURY NEWS)

LENGTH: 303 words


An unemployed car valeter and a hairdresser will be sentenced for planning a
terrorist attack on a Prestwich's Jewish community.

Mohammed Sajid Khan, 33, and Shasta Khan, 38, bought substances and equipment
from supermarkets to assemble an improvised explosive device.

Police found a cache of terror-related material when they were called to a
domestic dispute at the couple's home in Oldham last July.

Videos of beheadings, propaganda glorifying Osama bin Laden and bomb-making
guides were seized along with peroxide and bleach which together with electrical
equipment were being readied to make a bomb.

A satnav from Mrs Khan's Peugeot 305 vehicle showed they had been on multiple
trips to Jewish populated areas around north Manchester, looking for targets to
attack.

A jury at Manchester Crown Court found her guilty of engaging in conduct in
preparation for acts of terrorism and two counts of possessing information
useful for committing or preparing for an act of terrorism. She was cleared of a
third count of the latter charge.

Mohammed Sajid Khan pleaded guilty at an earlier hearing to engaging in conduct
in preparation for acts of terrorism between August 2010 and last July.

Opening the case against Shasta Khan, prosecutor Bobbie Cheema said behind their
"apparent normality of daily life" the Khans planned to carry out "jihad at
home".

They both became radicalised by material found on the internet such as an al
Qaida magazine called Inspire, the aim of which is to encourage Muslims in the
West and this country to carry out holy war or jihad by mounting attacks in
their own countries independent of any outside direction or association with any
other person.

In response, the pair prepared to carry out a terrorist attack on British soil,
with the most likely target being an orthodox Jewish area of Prestwich.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 20, 2012 Friday 10:04 PM GMT

Immigrant in Britain helped plot attack on Christmas shoppers;
An illegal immigrant living in Britain has been convicted of helping plan and
fund a terrorist attack in Stockholm.

BYLINE: By Simon Johnson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 603 words


Nasserdine Menni was found guilty of conspiracy to murder Christmas shoppers in
the Swedish capital after an 11-week trial at the High Court in Glasgow. The
Algerian, whose age is not known, was also convicted of benefit fraud.

An investigation involving British police and the FBI uncovered his links to
Taimour Abdulwahab al-Abdaly, who died after detonating a bomb in December 2010.

The pair hatched their plans for a

terrorist atrocity in Sweden after becoming friends while living in Luton, Beds.

Menni ended up in Glasgow seeking asylum and it was money earned there from
illegally-claimed benefits and low-paid jobs that funded the mission.

His legal team claimed that the cash was given to Abdulwahab to pass on to
family back home but the jury rejected his claims and he faces a lengthy jail
term when he is sentenced at the High Court on Aug 27.

Addressing the trial judge, Lord Matthews, as he left the dock, Menni said: "My
Lord, I thank you very much for the justice in Scotland."

The court heard how Abdulwahab, an Iraqi-born Swedish citizen, bought a
­second-hand Audi car and packed it with petrol canisters, gas cylinders, and a
"pressure cooker" bomb filled with nails, ball bearings and explosives.

He intended to detonate the car bomb to drive shoppers towards the pedestrian
area of the city, where he was waiting with explosive devices attached to his
body.

Despite setting fire to the vehicle, he failed to detonate the devices inside.
Abdulwahab was seen on CCTV trying to detonate one of the devices to which he
was attached and succeeded in blowing himself up 15 minutes after the car was
set on fire.

Images showed crowds of Christmas shoppers trying to flee after two passers-by
were injured. Abdulwahab was declared dead at the scene. Shortly before the
incidents, his wife had sent emails explaining the reasons for his "martyrdom"
to Swedish media and police.

Police recovered a mobile phone from Abdulwahab's body from which he had made
two calls earlier that day to a mobile in Glasgow. Within days, Menni - who was
known to some in Glasgow as an asylum-seeking Kuwaiti called Ezeeden Al-Khaledi
- had been identified as the owner of the phone.

He was placed under surveillance and investigators found extensive links between
the two men. They discovered that Menni had a number of bank accounts in various
aliases through which he transferred cash to Abdulwahab to fund the terrorist
plot.

He made deposits totalling £5,725, which helped pay for Abdulwahab's trips
abroad for the "purposes of jihad" and the Audi used in the bombing. Another
£1,000 was sent intended for

Abdulwahab's wife, Mona Thwany, after his death.

The 29-year-old mother of three from Luton told the court she received a message
from her husband on the day of his death confessing that he was a terrorist.

She insisted that she had no prior knowledge of her husband's plans but William
Taylor QC, defending Menni, questioned her about why instructions on how to
build a bomb were stored in a computer in her home.

Mr Taylor also suggested that she went shopping online after learning of her
husband's death.

He told the court that she looked at clothes and how to buy a dress, then
checked how much money was in her bank account.

She said she did not remember, adding that it was "very unlikely" that she
looked at clothes.

Thwany confirmed that Menni told her on the phone he wanted to send her the
money but said: "It is a cultural thing that when someone passes away, you ask
the family if they need anything."

Menni is believed to have arrived in Britain in 2005 under a false French
identity and became radicalised in early 2009.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 20, 2012 Friday 4:54 PM GMT

'Homegrown' British terrorist bride jailed over Jewish plot;
Serial bride who met and married her third husband through a Muslim dating site
was jailed for eight years for planning to launch a terrorist attack upon Jewish
communities in Manchester.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 912 words


A serial bride who became a ''homegrown'' British terrorist after she met and
married her third husband through a Muslim dating site was jailed for eight
years today.

Hairdresser Shasta Khan, 38, had two failed marriages before becoming
radicalised by Al Qaeda and inspired by Osama Bin Laden after she met ex-car
valeter Mohammed Khan, 33, on an introduction site named ''Single Muslim''
because she was looking to marry the ''Islamic way.''

She ditched her Westernised and ''chilled out'' lifestyle in favour of strict
traditional Islamic dress, stopped watching her favourite TV shows like
Coronation Street and Eastenders and tuned into terrorist propaganda on the
internet instead.

Shasta and her husband later began planning to build a DIY device using chapatti
flour, hairdressing chemicals and a set of Christmas tree lights from
supermarkets to launch a terrorist bomb attack upon Jewish communities in
Manchester.

They also carried out reconnaisance missons on possible targets including a
synagogue in the Prestwcih area and she was said to have used her home-based
hairdressing business Sassy Hair Studio as a front to seek targets as part of a
''personal jihad.''

But the plot was exposed by chance in July last year when police were called to
a report of a bust up between Khan and Shasta's father.

Khan was initially arrested on suspicion of stealing his father-in-law's car but
anti terror officers were called in after a member of Shasta's family expressed
concerns Khan was a ''homegrown'' terrorist.

Police raided the couple's two up two down terrace in Oldham, Greater Manchester
found a string of documents with titles including ''39 Ways to Serve and
Participate in Jihad''.

Today at Manchester Crown Court, Shasta was convicted of engaging in conduct in
preparation for acts of terrorism and two counts of possessing a record of
information likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of
terrorism.

She denied the charges. Her husband pleaded guilty to engaging in conduct in
preparation for acts of terrorism. He was given an indeterminate sentence and
must serve a minimum of seven and a half years before being considered eligible
for parole.

After the case Det Chief Supt Anthony Mole, head of the North West
Counter-Terrorism Unit said: "It is impossible to say with any certainty what
their exact endgame was or what their specific targets may have been but the
evidence suggests they were in the attack-planning stage of a terrorist act
motivated by anti-Semitic beliefs.

"What we must acknowledge is the dangers posed by the relatively easy access to
online publications which contain instructions on how to make viable explosive
devices from everyday household items, and how this can create 'home-grown'
terrorists.

''The Khans did not need to travel to training camps in Pakistan or Afghanistan
- the knowledge they needed to commit a terrorist act was available at the click
of a few buttons from the confines of their own home. This was 'jihad at home'.

"I would like to pay tribute to the diligence and hard work of all the officers
who worked on this case. It is no exaggeration to say that their efforts to
ensure the Khans were charged and ultimately convicted has saved people's
lives."

Earlier the trial was told Shasta had been born in the UK but as a teenager was
sent to Pakistan by her family into a forced marriage after her younger sister
was caught with a boyfriend.

She had a daughter now aged 18 by her first husband but the marriage ended. She
wed again but that marriage also crumbled.

She met Khan originally from Bradford, West Yorks on the Muslim dating site in
July 2010 after claiming depression of having two broken marriages led to pray
five times a day.

He had been previously married to a white woman but claimed he was looking for a
wife ''in this life and the next.'' He proposed an Islamic marriage three days
after the initial meeting when she said she regarded his dating profile as a
''beautiful sentiment.''

They married in August 2010 and they were pictured enjoying a honeymoon in
Turkey and looking happy and relaxed as they rode a jetski.

But within weeks of the wedding the couple became strict Islamists with Khan
wearing long white robes and growing a beard whilst she wore a burka.

They started reading and listening to extremist Al Qaeda-inspired media in
November 2010 and behind the apparent normality of daily life, the couple
believed in and supported an extreme ideology of jihad or holy war against the
''enemies of Islam'' -especially Jewish people.

Later the couple drove to Prestwich where he directed her to a Jewish temple and
observed worshippers arriving and leaving. Whilst there Khan said: "We must kill
them all."

Between March and July 2011, the couple began to access online bomb-making
manuals and acquired everyday household items from supermarkets and high street
retailers which could be used to construct a DIY device.

But the plot fell apart after Shasta's brother, Ibrahim, identified Khan as a
''home-grown terrorist'' and that when police spoke to her, she spilled the
beans on her husband's activities. She was then arrested herself.

In her defence Shasta said she had been frightened of her husband and denied
wrongdoing. She described her husband as 'racist', telling the jury he said she
did not believe in Allah because she mixed with white people.

Asked if she had a problem with Jewish people, she said: "No. I have friends in
Prestwich. I used to live there.''

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 20, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Hairdresser targeted Jewish area for terrorism attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 178 words


Manchester A hairdresser has been convicted of planning a terrorist attack in a
mainly Jewish area of the city.

Shasta Khan, 38, and her husband, Mohammed Sajid Khan, 33, an unemployed car
valeter, bought substances and equipment from supermarkets to assemble an
improvised explosive device.

Police found a cache of terrorism-related material after being called to a
domestic dispute at the couple's home in Oldham, Greater Manchester, a year ago.
Beheading videos, propaganda glorifying Osama bin Laden and bomb-making guides
were seized, along with peroxide and bleach used by Ms Khan in her hairdressing
work, which together with electrical equipment was being readied to make a bomb.

A jury at Manchester Crown Court found Ms Khan guilty of engaging in conduct in
preparation for acts of terrorism and two counts of possessing information
useful for committing or preparing for an act of terrorism. She was cleared of a
third charge.

Mr Khan pleaded guilty at an earlier hearing to engaging in conduct in
preparation for acts of terrorism. Both will be sentenced today.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              July 20, 2012 Friday
                                 First Edition

Couple plotted anti-Jewish terror attack;
UKBULLETINS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 83 words


A WOMAN has been convicted of planning a terror attack in the Jewish
neighbourhood of a city.

Shasta Khan, 38, and her husband, Mohammed Sajid Khan, 33, bought substances to
assemble an improvised explosive device. Police found terror-related material
after being called to a dispute at the couple's home in Oldham, Greater
Manchester, last July. A jury at Manchester Crown Court found Shasta guilty of
engaging in preparation for acts of terrorism. Her husband pleaded guilty at an
earlier hearing.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: wm


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 21, 2012 Saturday

Algerian policeman said killed, brother, father injured in "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 108 words


An Algerian policeman has been killed, his father and brother injured, in an
attack by "a terrorist group" east of Algiers, the online version of the
privately-owned French-language daily newspaper El Watan reported on 21 July.

Quoting a "local source", the paper said that the attack took place in Boumerdes
Province, some 65 km east of Algiers, with the "terrorists" attacking "by
surprise" the family "not far from their house".

El Watan said that several terrorist attacks have taken place in the region in
the last two years, the latest of which was carried out on 20 June, killing one
person.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 21 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 21, 2012 Saturday

Vietnam condemns terror attack in Bulgaria

LENGTH: 105 words


Text of report in English by state-run Vietnamese news agency VNA website

Hanoi, 20 July: Vietnam condemns all sorts of terrorism targeting innocent
civilians, said Vietnamese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Luong Thanh Nghi.

Spokesman Nghi made the statement on July 20 while answering reporters'
questions on Vietnam's reaction to the terrorist attack on civilians in
Bulgaria.

He said, "We would like to convey our condolences to the Israeli and Bulgarian
Governments as well as families of the victims. The culprits of the
aforementioned crime must be strictly punished."

Source: VNA news agency, Hanoi, in English 0000gmt 20 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 21, 2012 Saturday

North Korea accuses South of framing "terrorist" plot to attack leaders' statues

LENGTH: 712 words


Text of report in English by state-run North Korean news agency KCNA website

Pyongyang, 21 July: The Lee Myung Bak regime of traitors has now gone so
ridiculous in its bid to conceal its pitiful true colours.

A spokesman for the south Korean "Ministry of National Defence" in a TV
appearance unhesitatingly let loose a string of balderdash that "the case touted
by the north is a lie and groundless" and "there is no worth countering it on
'government' level".

Explicitly speaking, this is another despicable smear campaign against the DPRK
[Democratic People's Republic of Korea, North Korea] the south Korean regime
kicked off to save its face, much upset by the revelation of its heinous acts of
subversion and sabotage in the very eyes of the world.

As already exposed, the act of demolishing the statues the Lee Myung Bak
rat-like group attempted to commit is an outrageous and heinous hostile act
against the dignity of the supreme leadership of the DPRK and a grave
politically-motivated, state-sponsored terrorist case wantonly violating
international law.

This time the group singled out statues of the peerlessly great persons of Mt.
Paektu as a target of subversive acts and sabotage and, to this end, prepared a
terrorist weapon whose use is under worldwide control as an explosive device.

Involved in the attempted terrorism were agents of the south Korean Intelligence
Service and the Defence Security Command of the army and all other intelligence
plot-breeding organs of south Korea under the manipulation of the U.S.
intelligence organs. The "undertaking" was timed to coincide with the greatest
celebrations of the nation aimed at the so-called "greatest effect".

This goes to clearly prove that the current case is entirely a heinous
politically-motivated state-sponsored terrorist act.

What is more serious is that rat Lee Myung Bak, a lawless hooligan running wild
just like a puppy knowing no fear of the tiger, branded the press conference
held in Pyongyang to disclose his heinous crime as "the one for consolidating
social system". This is, indeed, a hysteric fit of psychopathic patient keen on
confrontation of social systems and the last-ditch efforts of the living dead to
flee from the judgment of history.

By nature, its description is a trite method to mislead the public opinion
whenever it finds itself in a tight corner in the wake of its farce.

In the past the group of traitors let many plot-breeding and terrorist
organizations including the "front for liberation of the north Korean people"
and "special operation groups" kick off "disturbances" and fake up "shocking
cases". It also continuously committed heinous provocation moves such as the
case of firing at the image representing the dignity of the supreme leadership
of the DPRK and its flag.

Recently it infiltrated wicked defectors to the south and traitors into the DPRK
again being assigned duty of heinous hostile acts of insulting the dignity of
the supreme leadership of the DPRK.

Woman Pak Jong Suk, who was taken to south Korea by south Korean agents, and
criminal Jon Yong Chol indicted before the world the south Korean puppet
regime's moves against the DPRK.

The recent criminal case is an extension of the heinous provocations traitor Lee
Myung Bak has committed to insult the dignity of the supreme leadership of the
DPRK, regarding it as a means of existence to seek confrontation of social
systems and fratricidal showdown. And it is a height of confrontation racket.

The regime is seriously mistaken if it thinks it can stir up the mindset of the
people in the DPRK through such despicable subversion and sabotage moves, break
its single-minded unity and topple its social system.

No hostile forces can ever break the DPRK's steel-strong single-minded unity.

To dare demolish statues of the peerlessly great persons is a war action as
serious as invasion as it is the most undisguised insult and physical attack on
the dignity of the supreme leadership of the DPRK.

If the rat-like Lee Myung Bak regime intends to commit another heinous
politically-motivated state-sponsored terrorist act b y making a second and
third Jon Yong Chol, the DPRK will wage a sacred, just war to wipe it out from
this land once and for all.

Source: KCNA website, Pyongyang, in English 0000gmt 21 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      July 21, 2012 Saturday 12:22 AM GMT

Man guilty of funding terror attack

SECTION: UK

LENGTH: 256 words


An Algerian national has been found guilty of funding terrorism but cleared of
conspiracy to murder following a suicide bombing in Stockholm.

Nasserdine Menni was convicted of transferring money to Taimour Abdulwahab, who
later blew himself up in the Swedish capital on December 11 2010.

A jury at the High Court in Glasgow found a charge that Menni conspired to
murder members of the Swedish public not proven.

Menni, whose age is not known, was also convicted of immigration and benefit
fraud.

Addressing trial judge Lord Matthews as he left the dock, Menni said: "My Lord,
I thank you very much for the justice in Scotland."

Jurors took just over nine hours to clear Menni of an allegation that he
conspired with Abdulwahab to further terrorist aims in carrying out the bombing
with intent to murder members of the public.

But, following a 12-week trial, he was found guilty of sending a total of £5,725
to a bank account in Abdulwahab's name in the knowledge that it could be used
for terrorism purposes.

Abdulwahab rigged an Audi car with explosives in the hope it would drive people
to Drottninggatan, a busy shopping street about 200 yards away, where he was
waiting to set off two more devices strapped to his chest and back.

The car bomb never went off, and after setting fire to the Audi he was unable to
detonate the other two explosives as planned.

He made his way down a side street off Drottninggatan and, in an apparent
attempt to fix the faulty trigger up his sleeve, set off the bomb on the front
of his body, killing only himself.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                             July 21, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Bogus asylum seeker faces jail for funding terror attack

BYLINE: Rod Mills

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 581 words


A FAKE asylum seeker who used Scottish taxpayers' money to fund a suicide bomb
attack in Sweden was last night facing a lengthy prison sentence.

Algerian immigrant Nasserdine Menni posed as a French national and as a Kuwaiti.
He later falsely claimed asylum and went on to illegally claim benefits and
funnel the cash to a radical Islamist.

Glasgow-based Menni was yesterday convicted of transferring money to Taimour
Abdulwahab, who blew himself up in Stockholm in December 2010.

A probe involving UK police, the FBI and other agencies uncovered Menni's links
to the 28-year-old Muslim extremist bomber.

A jury at the High Court in Glasgow found a charge that Menni conspired to
murder Swedish citizens not proven.

Menni was convicted of immigration and benefit frauds.

Addressing trial judge Lord Matthews as he left the dock, said: "My Lord, I
thank you very much for the justice in Scotland."

Menni - who is thought to be 31 or 32 - arrived in Britain around 2002. Three
years later, he began a £17,000-a-year job in car parts factory Magna Seating in
Luton, Bedfordshire, calling himself Emmanuel Bernard and claiming to be French.

Police believe he met Abdulwahab while living in Luton's Middle Eastern
community and became radicalised by him.

In an attempt to go further undercover, he travelled to Liverpool on April 6,
2009, and falsely claimed asylum, claiming to be a persecuted Kuwaiti Bedouin,
in a process the jury was told was "deserving of an Oscar".

He was resettled in Glasgow and placed in a 19th-floor tower block flat in
Glasgow's Whiteinch area.

He worked as a glass collector, chef and waiter at several Glasgow businesses,
including Ad Lib in Ingram Street and Mercado in Bell Street. He lived
"frugally".

Exploited He was also fraudulently claiming benefits and was able to send a
total of £5,725 to the bomber to buy the raw materials for the attack, including
an Audi car used in the bombing. It also helped to pay for Abdulwahab's trips
abroad for the "purposes of Jihad".

A sum of £1,000 was to go to Abdulwahab's wife after his death.

Menni speaks several languages and he befriended people of various
nationalities. But he exploited his new friends when he used their computers to
open a string of email and Skype accounts. He used these to keep in daily
contact with the bomber. His legal team claimed the cash was given to Abdulwahab
to pass on to relatives.

Menni could be jailed for up to 14 years when he returns to the dock for
sentencing next month.

David Harvie, director of serious casework for the Crown Office and Procurator
Fiscal Service, said: "I hope his conviction sends a clear message to the tiny
extremist minority, who are not in any way representative of the Muslim
community in Scotland: anyone contemplating terrorist crimes should know that
law enforcement will bring you to justice."

Abdulwahab, an Iraqi-born Swedish citizen, killed himself on December 11, 2010
in a blast in the centre of the Swedish capital.

The Audi car he bought for just over £900 was torched.

But the devices inside - including a pressure cooker filled with explosives -
failed to detonate.

CCTV images showed crowds of terrified Christmas shoppers trying to get away
from the bomber as he tried but failed to detonate devices strapped to his body.

Abdulwahab ran into an alley to try to fix a detonator,.

One of the bombs went off and killed him.

Luckily, only two other people were hurt.

It is thought a vital wire was either not attached or came loose - and this
saved many lives.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Menni's money helped to pay for the Audi used in the attack as well as
items like a pressure cooker, above, and explosives

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             July 21, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Man guilty of funding Sweden terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 70 words


A Glasgow-based asylum seeker has been found guilty of funding terrorism but
cleared of conspiracy to murder after a suicide bombing in Stockholm. Algerian
Nasserdine Menni was convicted of transferring money to Taimour Abdulwahab, who
blew himself up in Sweden on December 11 2010. The High Court in Glasgow found a
charge that Menni conspired to murder not proven. Menni was convicted of
immigration and benefit fraud.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 22, 2012 Sunday 10:35 AM GMT

Israel steps up security around its Olympic team over fears of Iranian terror
attack during the Games

BYLINE: ANTHONY BOND

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 464 words



     ·    MI5 and Scotland Yard are thought to have raised their threat
          assessment against the Israeli delegation
     ·    Suicide attack on an Israeli tourist bus in Bulgaria has raised
          concerns over security of Olympic team
     ·    Israel fears a repeat of the 1972 Olympic Games when 11 of its
          athletes and coaches were murdered


Security has been stepped up around Israeli athletes taking part in the Olympic
Games over fears they could be targeted by an Iranian terror squad operating in
Europe.

MI5 and Scotland Yard are thought to have raised their threat assessment against
the Israeli delegation as Britain prepares for the largest peacetime security
operation ahead of the Games.

Concerns over security around the Israeli team follows the deaths of six people
last Wednesday after a suicide attack on an Israeli tourist bus in the Bulgaria
resort of Burgas.

According to The Sunday Times, the Israeli government - fearing a repeat of the
1972 Olympic Games in Munich when 11 of its athletes and coaches were murdered -
has sent agents from its internal security service Shin Bet to increase the
protection around its Olympic team.

Israel's external security service Mossad are also thought to have sent a team
of agents to Europe to hunt for a group of white Europeans who have converted to
Islam and are working with the Iranian Quds force and Hezbollah - the terrorist
group backed by Tehran.

The horrific blast in Bulgaria is thought to be the latest in a number of
revenge attacks by Iran because it believes Israel assassinated some of its
nuclear scientists.

Whitehall officials have dismissed the threat of a credible plot against the
Israeli Olympic delegation and suggested Israel could be attempting to increase
the pressure on British authorities to increase security around the Games.

But a source in the Jewish community in London said: 'There is a pattern
emerging with a build-up of attacks against Israelis and Jewish targets by Iran
or Hezbollah over the past year. There is a real fear about this.'

The Metropolitan police commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe suggested last week that
extra security measures had been taken to protect Olympic delegations which
could be targeted by terrorists.

He said: 'One of the things we have to watch out for is that some of the
countries are under threat of terrorism.'

The security operation around the Olympic Games is unprecedented. Protecting the
Olympic Park and 26 other venues will be 17,000 troops and 7,000 private
security guards. Sniffer dogs and airport-style security screening will also be
in place at every entrance to the stadium and snipers will be in place on the
roof.

London's streets will also see an extra 12,500 police officers on patrol while
the Olympic Stadium has seen panic rooms installed for VIPS and spectators in
case of an attack.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 22, 2012 Sunday 11:28 AM GMT

Wreath-laying opens Utoya Island memorial day;
The laying of a wreath at the government buildings devastated by a bomb blast
this morning began anniversary memorials across Norway to mark last year's Oslo
terror attack.

BYLINE: By Richard Orange in Oslo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 649 words


The anniversary will include memorial services, an event for the youth wing of
Norway's Labour party on the island of Utoya, the site of the second attack, and
time for the families of the bereaved to come and grieve on the island.

"It will be a way of showing that 22 July had to do with the people that lost
their lives, the people who got wounded and all those who lost their loved
ones," Norway's Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg told the Daily Telegraph last
week. "I think it's important for a country to collectively be able to express
those feelings, and that's what we're going to do on Sunday."

Right-wing extremist Anders Behring Breivik begun the attack a year ago today by
detonating a bomb underneath the main government building in central Oslo,
killing eight people and injuring more than 200. He then drove to a Labour party
youth camp on Utoya, outside Oslo, where he killed a further 69 people, mostly
teenagers in a shooting rampage.

Because the youth camp including members from every local chapter, almost every
county in Norway has dead to grieve today, and services will be held across the
country.

Mr Stoltenberg laid the wreath at 9.30am, alongside Norway's King Harold and
Queen Sonja, at the government building, which is still wrapped in white plastic
to hide its shattered windows. They will then move on to attend a service at
Olso's cathedral.

Mr Stoltenberg will then speak at the youth wing event on Utoya before laying a
second wreath on the island at 6.45pm, close to the time that the arrival of the
police brought an end to Breivik's massacre.

The day's events will be rounded off with a memorial concert in Oslo's main
square, featuring Norwegian folk singer Lillebjoern Nilsen, who led 40,000
protesters earlier this year in singing Children of the Rainbow, a song which
Breivik had said he detested. US rocker Bruce Springsteen, who is in Norway as
part of his world tour, may also make an appearance.

Representatives of the families said this morning that they felt the memorial
had been marred by their exclusion from the island to make way for the Labour
party youth event.

"It has left a really bad taste around the memorial," said Jarl Robert

Christensen, whose 15-year-old daughter Birgitta was killed on the island. "We
have argued with them for two months now, and they won't budge. They should have
included everyone, and they didn't."

The AUF hosted the youth camp on Utoya which Anders Breivik attacked a year ago
today, killing 69 people in Norway's worst massacre since the Second World War.

But Bjorn Ihler, an AUF member who survived the attack, said yesterday that he
was boycotting today's ceremony.

"I'm not going because I think that it's unfair. A lot of people who would go to
the island aren't because their families aren't allowed to be there with them.
It's terribly sad that all these people feel that the organisation is stepping
on them. There's going to be lots of political speeches, and I don't think 22/7
should be a day for parties and politicians."

An AUF spokesman refused to comment on why the families had been excluded.

Mr Christensen and 180 other relatives angered by the AUF decision are planning
to hold their own ceremony on the island from 5.00pm, at around the time Breivik
arrived on the island, which will end with flowers being released into the
waters around the island, and Chinese lanterns floated into the air.

The island, 23 miles from Oslo, has been owned by the AUF since 1950.

A debate has been raging in recent months over the future of the island, which
the AUF leadership wants to keep, resuming its annual youth camps next year, but
which many of the families of the bereaved want as a permanent memorial.

Breivik has pleaded guilty to the crimes, but said they were "necessary" to
protect Norway from Islam. The verdict, which will rule on whether he is sane or
insane, is scheduled for August 24.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        July 22, 2012 Sunday 4:35 PM GMT

Israel fears Iran terrorist attack at Games

BYLINE: Anne Barrowclough

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 556 words


Israel has increased its security presence at the London Olympics amid fears
that an Iranian terrorist squad may be planning an attack on its athletes,
according to reports.

Mossad, the country's foreign intelligence service, is hunting an Iranian
terrorist group in Europe to prevent what it believes could be a 'spectacular'
to mark the 40th anniversary of the 'Black September' attack at the 1972 Munich
Games in which 11 Israeli athletes and coaches were killed by Palestinian
gunmen.

The Israeli government has reportedly dispatched agents from its internal
security service Shin Bet to protect its team of athletes.

Scotland Yard and MI5 are also believed to have raised their assessment of the
threat against the Israeli delegation following last week's suicide attack on an
Israeli tourist bus at Burgas airport in Bulgaria, according to The Sunday
Times.

Meanwhile Mossad is said to have sent a team, codenamed Bayonet, to Europe in
search of a group of terror suspects believed to be working with Iran's Quds
force - the country's overseas hit squad - and Hezbollah.

Quds, the special operations unit of the Iranian Revolutionary Guards, has
reportedly recruited several white European Islamic converts, including two from
Germany, one from Sweden and two Britons.

One of the terror suspects being sought by Israeli agents before the London
Games is a man carrying a US passport in the name of David Jefferson, who is
thought to have been an accomplice of the bus bomber, the newspaper reported. It
is thought that he may have detonated the device by remote control, perhaps
without the knowledge of the bomb-carrier.

Bulgarian police along with the CIA, FBI and Interpol are struggling to identify
the suicide bomber who killed five Israelis and the Bulgarian bus driver in an
attack the US said bore the "hallmarks" of Hezbollah.

The Interior Minister of Bulgaria Tsvetan Tsvetanov said the bomber was not a
Bulgarian citizen and had been in the country "not less than four days." He was
carrying a forged driving licence in the name of Jacque Felipe Martin from
Michigan, home to a number of Arab-Americans originating from the Shi'ite areas
of Lebanon.

Israel has vowed to "respond forcefully" to the attack, which it has blamed on
Iran and its "terrorist proxy", Hezbollah.

"All the signs lead to Iran," said Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli Prime
Minister after the attack.

"In the past few months we have seen attempts by Iran to harm Israelis in
Thailand, India, Georgia, Kenya, Cyprus and other places. Israel will respond
forcefully to Iranian terror," he said, describing the Burgas bombing as as
another stage in "an Iranian terror attack which is spread across the entire
world".

The Islamic Republic rejected the accusations as "ridiculous."

Israel's team of 38 athletes arrived at the Olympic village in Stratford, East
London, 12 days ago as Britain prepared to launch its biggest ever peacetime
security operation. But the plans, including surface-to-air missiles stationed
at six sites, have been dogged by a row over a shortage of security guards after
a private company said it could not provide enough staff.

The Government is deploying an extra 3,500 troops after G4S said it could not
fulfil its contract to supply 10,500 private guards for Olympic venues, and is
putting another 1,200 troops on standby.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 23, 2012 Monday

Kenyan police warn of likely terror attacks during Ramadan

LENGTH: 476 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati entitled "Police warn of likely terror attacks
during Ramadan" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard
website on 23 July, subheading as published

Security has been tightened in churches and social gatherings across the country
following reports that Al-Shabab is planning terror attacks during the month of
Ramadan.

Police headquarters say hundreds of police officers have been mobilized and
deployed to stop any attacks.

Plain clothes officers and others in uniform are helping to maintain security.

"Al-Shabab terrorists have issued threats that they will carry out massive
destruction during the holy month of Ramadan. Let everybody be extra alert,"
said Nairobi PPO [Provincial Police Officer] Anthony Kibuchi.

Officials say intelligence reports show terrorists' want to stage more attacks.
This follows the Garissa [northeastern Kenya] town assault on two churches where
17 people died.

On Thursday, Israeli embassy in Nairobi repeated warnings of a global onslaught
by terrorists, saying Kenya was among the countries targeted.

The Al-Shabab has since last October hit targets in Kenya, most recently in
Wajir, where four people were injured in twin explosions.

Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu described the attacks as "horrific"
and likened them to an earlier explosion at a bus in Bulgaria where seven
people, among them six Israelis, were killed.

"All signs point towards Iran. Over the last few months we have seen Iran's
attempts to attack Israelis in Thailand, India, Georgia, Kenya, Cyprus and other
countries. This is a global Iranian terror onslaught and Israel will react
firmly to it."

Vulnerable places

Two Iranians - Mr Ahmad Abolafathi Mohammed and Mr Sayed Mansour Mousa - were
arrested in Kenya last month and detained at the Kamiti Maximum Security Prison
on charges of being in possession of 15 kilogrammes of RDX, a chemical used in
making bombs.

RDX is a more powerful explosive compared to TNT, the conventional ingredient
for making bombs such as the one used in the 1998 US embassy attack in Nairobi,
which killed more than 200 people.

Reports said the Iranians planned to make 30 bombs to stage a series of attacks
in the country, claims they deny. Yesterday, Kibuchi said "vulnerable places"
had been identified.

Al-Shabab launched terror attacks in Kenya after Kenya Defence Forces entered
Somalia in October, last year. At least 40 attacks have occurred since, with
grenades being used in most of them. The attacks usually target security
agencies and social gatherings.

Last week, the US embassy announced the country's government employees had been
prohibited from travelling to North Eastern Province, where most of the terror
attacks have happened, and also cautioned its citizens from making unnecessary
visits.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 23 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 23, 2012 Monday

Bulgarian terror attack unreleated to developments in Syria - minister

LENGTH: 322 words


Text of report in English by Bulgarian national news agency BTA website,

["Foreign Minister Mladenov: 'What's Going on in Bulgaria Has Nothing to Do with
What's Happening in Syria'" - BTA headline]

Brussels, July 23 (BTA) - "What's going on in Bulgaria has nothing to do with
what's happening in Syria," Bulgarian Foreign Minister Nikolay Mladenov told
Bulgarian journalists here on Monday [ 23 July], referring to the July 18 Burgas
Airport[1] bus bombing in which seven people were killed and 32 injured.

Replying to a question, the foreign minister said he will brief his EU
colleagues on the development. "Until we are through with our investigation we
won't be fingering any culprit," he specified in connection with reports that
Hezbollah is behind the attack. Regarding a request which Israeli Foreign
Minister Avigdor Lieberman is expected to make in Brussels on Monday that
Hezbollah be included on the EU list of terrorist organizations, Mladenov noted
that this is a long-going discussion. "Considering what happened in Bulgaria
days ago, I'd rather reserve comment on this question for after the end of the
investigation," he added. The minister said he will confer with his Israeli
counterpart later in the day.

"Our top priority now is to pinpoint the movements of the presumable suicide
bomber so as to identify all connections which will probably reach out of
Bulgaria," Mladenov said. He noted that a more in-depth discussion on the
bombing will take place at the EU informal Justice and Home Affairs Council in
Nicosia on Monday with the participation of Bulgarian Deputy Prime Minister and
Interior Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov.

Replying to a question, Mladenov said there is no need to enlist NATO allies for
this case. "The attack targeted Israeli nationals and Israeli interests, there
have been numerous such attacks worldwide and not just in our region," he
commented.

Source: BTA, Sofia, in English 0837 gmt 23 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 23, 2012 Monday

Syria denounces terrorist attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 206 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Syria denounces strongly bombings in Iraq which resulted in hundreds of deaths
and injuries" - SANA headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - The Foreign and Expatriates Ministry on Monday [23 July]
denounced strongly the series of bombings and terrorist attack which took place
in several areas in Iraq, resulting in hundreds of deaths and injuries among
innocent civilians.

In a statement, the ministry stressed that such terrorist acts aim to
destabilize Iraq and preventing it from returning to normal, and that terrorism
continues to strike at the Iraqi people without discrimination.

The ministry called on the Iraqi people to overcome pain and work to restore
Iraq to a health state, affirming that the terrorists who carry out such bloody
crimes in Iraq are mistaken in believing that they can affect the will and faith
of the Iraqi people and their determination to build a safe and stable Iraq.

The ministry offered the government and people of Iraq the sincerest condolences
for those who died in these attacks and its deepest sympathies to the families
of the victims, wishing the wounded a swift recovery.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 23 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 July 23, 2012
                                 First Edition

Israel alert to terror attacks at Games;
Olympic shorts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 42 words


Israel is on alert for plots to kill its citizens during the Olympics, the
country's Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, said after five Israelis died in a
bomb attack in Bulgaria last week. Defence Minister Ehud Barak said the Games
are a "natural target".

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2012 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        July 23, 2012 Monday 6:06 PM GMT

Olympic chief initiates minute's silence for victims of terror attacks at Munich
1972

BYLINE: SPORTSMAIL REPORTER

SECTION: OLYMPICS

LENGTH: 276 words


A minute's silence was held in London's Olympic Village on Monday in memory of
the 11 Israeli team members killed at the 1972 Games in a 'spontaneous' tribute
by the IOC.

A campaign has been launched by the widow of one of the victims for a minute's
silence during the opening ceremony but IOC president Jacques Rogge has ruled
that out.

Instead, the tribute was paid at the signing of the Olympic Truce, the first
time it has happened inside an athletes village.

Scroll down for video

Rogge said: 'I would like to start today's ceremony by honouring the memory of
11 Israeli Olympians who shared the ideals and have brought us together in this
beautiful Olympic Village.

'The 11 victims of the Munich tragedy believed in that vision. They came to
Munich in the spirit of peace and solidarity. We owe it to them to keep that
spirit alive and to remember them.

'As the event of 40 years ago reminds us, sport is not immune from, and cannot
cure, all the ills of the world.'

Afterwards, Rogge insisted he had not made the surprise tribute in order to try
to calm the calls for the silence during the opening ceremony.

'It was a spontaneous suggestion,' Rogge told reporters afterwards. 'This is
indeed the first time that it has happened in the Olympic village.

'I could not speak here about peace and sport without reminding what happened 40
years ago. The intention was not to calm anyone.'

London 2012 chairman Sebastian Coe, mayor Boris Johnson and culture secretary
Jeremy Hunt were all that the ceremony.

Rogge also did a tour of the village and said he was hugely impressed.

'This is a Premier League Olympic village,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 23, 2012 Monday 1:03 PM GMT

Great Olympic Moments: Munich 1972 basketball final stirs lasting resentment
between the USA and Soviet Union;
Memories of the 1972 Munich Games will always be filtered through the sinister
light cast by the Palestinian terrorist attack on the athletes' village. The
tragedy's indelible imprint is such that even the most dramatic sporting moments
of those Olympics have become obscured.

BYLINE: By Jon Henderson

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 353 words


But the most dramatic of all, the highly controversial men's basketball final,
five days after the Palestinian raid, retains a special place in the story of
Munich.

The contest stirred lasting resentment between the United States and the Soviet
Union, who at the time were already the main protagonists in another source of
bitter enmity, the cold war. The Soviet's 51-50 victory made it more frigid
still.

Up to this point the US were unbeaten in 62 Olympic basketball matches, which
included all seven men's finals that had preceded this one in Munich.

Throughout, the final was a mad, mean contest with the Soviets jumping into a
26-21 halftime lead before the US applied a full-court press that slashed their
deficit to one point with 38 seconds left. With less than 10 seconds to go Doug
Collins was badly fouled and, though dazed, coolly sank his free throws to put
the US in front, 50-49, for the first time.

With one second left, and the Americans still one point ahead, the referees
halted the game and Dr William Jones, the British secretary of Fiba,
basketball's world governing body, ordered the clock reset to 0:03. He was
responding to a claim by Soviet team officials that they had signalled for a
time-out between Collins's free throws, but whether Jones was entitled to act as
he did was - and still is - hotly disputed.

The drama still wasn't over. As the Soviets in-bounded the ball, the final
buzzer sounded and the American whooped for joy at retaining their title.

But, no, officials ordered them back on the court because the clock had not been
properly reset. When the anguish and arguing subsided and play resumed, Ivan
Edeshko threw a long pass to Alexander Belov, who pushed past Jim Forbes and
Kevin Joyce to sink the winning layup.

The Americans refused to show up to receive their silver medals. Kenny Davis,
the US captain, said: "We didn't know any other way to protest."

Davis also said that every time he felt sorry for himself "I think of those
Israeli kids who were killed at those Games".

Watch all of the Telegraph's Great Olympic Moments videos.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday

Prosecutor of Tajik eastern district killed in "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 87 words


Text of report by privately-owned Tajik news agency Asia-Plus website

The prosecutor of Rushan District of Tajikistan's Mountainous Badakhshon
Autonomous Region, Nafasbek Dilshodov, was killed in a terrorist attack in the
town of Khorugh this morning [24 July].

A source with the Tajik law-enforcement bodies told Asia-Plus that the
prosecutor's car was exploded. A person travelling with the prosecutor was also
killed. This person's name is not reported yet.

Source: Asia-Plus news agency website, Dushanbe, in Russian 24 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday

Prosecutor of Tajik eastern district survives "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 100 words


Text of report by privately-owned Tajik news agency Asia-Plus website

The prosecutor of Rushan District of Tajikistan's Mountainous Badakhshon
Autonomous Region, Nafasbek Dilshodov, was severely wounded in a terrorist
attack in the town of Khorugh this morning [24 July].

A source with the Tajik law-enforcement bodies told Asia-Plus that the
prosecutor's car was exploded. A person travelling with the prosecutor was also
wounded. This person's name is not reported yet. Both of them are in critical
condition in hospital at the moment.

Source: Asia-Plus news agency website, Dushanbe, in Russian 24 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday

Hong Kong paper says terror attacks, riots biggest risks for London Olympics

LENGTH: 324 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Guangzhou, 24 July: Typhoon Vicente made landfall early Tuesday morning [24
July] in the city of Taishan in south China's Guangdong province.

Typhoon Vicente made landfall in coastal areas near Chixi township around 4:15
a.m. Tuesday, with wind speeds of up to 144 km per hour near its centre, the
provincial meteorological station said.

Vicente has brought heavy rains to coastal areas in Guangdong.

It is expected to move northwestward at a speed of 15 to 20 km per hour as it
weakens, the station said.

Gales and downpours are expected to hit western Guangdong and the Pearl River
Delta from Tuesday to Wednesday.

Intercity high-speed train services between Guangzhou and Shenzhen have been
temporarily halted due to the storm, the Guangzhou Railway Group Corporation
said, adding that the speed limit on the Wuhan-Guangzhou high-speed railway has
been reduced to ensure safety.

Train services are expected to resume normal operation in accordance with
weather conditions, the company said.

All shipping lines acoross the Qiongzhou Strait, located between Leizhou
Peninsula in Guangdong province and Hainan Island, have been closed since Sunday
night.

The meteorological station of Haikou, capital of Hainan, issued a red alert for
the storms on Tuesday, the highest warning level in China's four-tier
color-coded weather warning system.

Thirty-two flights had been cancelled at the Phoenix International Airport in
Hainan's city of Sanya as of Tuesday morning.

Seas off the coast of Guangdong, Fujian and Hainan provinces are expected to
experience waves of three to five meters in height, according to a Monday
forecast from the National Maritime Forecast Station.

It has warned local authorities and the public to take precautionary measures
and intensify safety checks for fishing facilities.

Source: South China Morning Post website, Hong Kong, in English 23 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                       July 24, 2012 Tuesday 6:21 PM BST

LONE WOLF TERROR ATTACK 'POSSIBLE'

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 290 words


The mayor of London and the Metropolitan Police Commissioner have both warned
that a ``lone wolf'' attack during the Olympic Games is a distinct security
concern.

Boris Johnson met Commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe as he was shown around the
Met's specialist operations room in Lambeth, south London.

The facilities are the nerve centre of the Olympics policing operation, where
officers will monitor the situation on the ground outside the Games venues
side-by-side with members of the military, emergency planners and the ambulance
service.

Both men admitted a lone wolf terrorist attack is a concern in the wake of last
week's midnight cinema massacre in Aurora, Colorado, which saw 12 people shot
dead at a screening of the latest Batman film.

Speaking after the visit, Commissioner Hogan-Howe, 54, said: ``Certainly in
terms of a lone wolf, it is always a possibility, an individual who, as we have
seen in America, gets hold of a firearm and does some terrible things.

``But we do have things in place to prevent that happening.

``It's an open democracy, it's a free society, so there are some limits to what
we can do to intervene but I think we have got a good plan in place and good
continuous planning, and we have tried to remove as much of the threat as we
can.''

Mr Johnson, 48, claimed he was ``re-reassured'' after visiting the specialist
operations room, which he said was imbued with a ``moon-shot buzz'' three days
ahead of the Olympics opening ceremony.

But asked about the threat of a lone wolf attack, he added: ``Nothing you can do
here can make sure that any city in this country is completely safe.

``What you can do is manage the risk, and everybody will appreciate that we are
working extremely hard to make sure of that.'' end

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2012 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       July 24, 2012 Tuesday 5:51 PM BST

LONE WOLF TERROR ATTACK 'POSSIBLE'

BYLINE: Alex Diaz, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 458 words


The mayor of London and the Metropolitan Police Commissioner both warned today
that a ``lone wolf'' attack during the Olympic Games is a distinct security
concern.

Boris Johnson met Commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe as he was shown around the
Met's specialist operations room in Lambeth, south London.

The facilities are the nerve centre of the Olympics policing operation, where
officers will monitor the situation on the ground outside the Games venues
side-by-side with members of the military, emergency planners and the ambulance
service.

Both men admitted a lone wolf terrorist attack is a concern in the wake of last
week's midnight cinema massacre in Aurora, Colorado, which saw 12 people shot
dead at a screening of the latest Batman film.

Speaking after the visit, Commissioner Hogan-Howe, 54, said: ``Certainly in
terms of a lone wolf, it is always a possibility, an individual who, as we have
seen in America, gets hold of a firearm and does some terrible things.

``But we do have things in place to prevent that happening.

``First of all we work with the security services to identify those people that
we think are at a risk of doing that.

``And then we have good systems in place to make sure, should the worst happen,
we deal with these things quickly.

``It's an open democracy, it's a free society, so there are some limits to what
we can do to intervene but I think we have got a good plan in place and good
continuous planning, and we have tried to remove as much of the threat as we
can.''

Mr Johnson, 48, claimed he was ``re-reassured'' after visiting the specialist
operations room, which he said was imbued with a ``moon-shot buzz'' three days
ahead of the Olympics opening ceremony.

He joked with officers in the CCTV monitoring suite, who have access to 10,000
cameras all over London, saying that things seemed to be going ``worryingly
well''.

But asked about the threat of a lone wolf attack, he added: ``Nothing you can do
here can make sure that any city in this country is completely safe.

``What you can do is manage the risk, and everybody will appreciate that we are
working extremely hard to make sure of that.''

After being introduced to members of the Specialist Operations Room by Olympics
gold commander Bob Broadhurst, the mayor said: ``I have never been in any doubt
that we are in very good shape to deal with this operation, but what is so good
about this place here is that it brings together all the agencies involved in
security.

``I have been here lots of times over the last few years and I have never felt a
buzz like this, this is like a moon-shot.

``These people are all very focussed, I was going round talking to them and they
were so busy it was sometimes hard to distract them and say 'hi' - they're on
the case.''

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2012 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 25, 2012 Wednesday

Russia's Lavrov accuses USA of justifying terrorist attacks in Syria

LENGTH: 182 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 25 July: Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has described the US
stance on the recent bombings in Damascus as an attempt to justify terrorism.

"This is a direct justification of terrorism. What should we make of this?" he
said at a news conference in Moscow on Wednesday [25 July].

This is how Lavrov commented on the statements made by representatives of the US
Department of State that the terrorist attacks in Damascus were not surprising
in light of the regime's actions.

The Russian minister also expressed his surprise that the UN Security Council
had refused to condemn these terrorist attacks. The US ambassador to the UN,
Susan Rice, said in particular that the terrorist attacks in Damascus
demonstrated the need for a resolution on Syria under Chapter 7 of the UN
Charter, which envisages sanctions up to military intervention.

"This is a totally terrible stance, and I cannot even find the words to express
our attitude to this," Lavrov noted.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0935 gmt 25 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 25, 2012 Wednesday

"Terrorist group" attacks military base in northern Algeria

LENGTH: 183 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 24
July

[Report by Amar Fedjkhi: "Bouira: A Military Base Attacked by Homemade Mortar in
Ath Mansour"]

On Monday [23 July] night into Tuesday morning a terrorist group attacked a
military billet located in the community of Passala, in the municipality of Ath
Mansour 50 kilometres to the east of the province of Bouira, it has been learned
from security sources.

Indeed at about 2100 hours [2000 gmt], and using a homemade mortar [hebheb], the
terrorist group, whose number remains unknown, attacked that military camp
though without causing damages or even claiming victims, the same sources added.

Our sources further emphasized that the forceful response from elements from the
National People's Army [ANP] made it possible to repel the attackers, who fled
towards the mountains overlooking the said community. Let us note that several
terrorist attacks had been reported in the Passala region.

[Passage omitted; recapitulation of earlier terrorist incidents in the area]

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 24 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      July 25, 2012 Wednesday 10:54 AM GMT

Bulgaria bomb 'detonated by remote control';
Victims of the Bulgaria terror attack on a tourist bus have told investigators
that the bomb was exploded by remote control after the bomber was challenged by
two Israeli men who were killed in the explosion.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 212 words


Itzik Colangi and Amir Menashe confronted the bomber when he moved their bags in
order to try and place his bomb deeper inside the luggage compartment of the
tour bus, packed with holidaymakers heading for the Black Sea's "Sunny Beach"
resort.

The authorities have confirmed that the bomber, who was killed in the Burgas
airport attack that took the lives of five Israeli tourists and a Bulgarian, was
backed up by an organised group who helped him plan and carry out the attack.

Gilat Colangi, Itzik's wife, told police that as the argument escalated the
bomber's controller triggered the device, an account that is borne out by other
witnesses of the attack.

"An operator activated the load by remote control," she told Channel Two
television in Israel.

"He [the bomber] came over to the bus, pushed their bags aside and put his own
bag down. They started to argue with him - and that's when his operator, who saw
them from a distance - activated the explosive."

The Burgas-based news website Besove has reported that forensic analysis of the
bomber's head shows he may have been mentally disabled and used as a dispensable
bomb "mule" by terrorist associates.

Other local press have reported that alleged suicide bomber has arrived from
Belgium and could be a Belgian national.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            July 25, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pair admit a 'lone wolf' terror attack is a possibility

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 407 words


THE mayor of London and the Metropolitan Police Commissioner both warned
yesterday that a "lone wolf" attack during the Olympic Games is a distinct
security concern.

Boris Johnson met Commissioner Bernard Hogan-Howe as he was shown around the
Met's specialist operations room in Lambeth, south London.

The facilities are the nerve centre of the Olympics policing operation, where
officers will monitor the situation on the ground outside the Games venues
side-by-side with members of the military, emergency planners and the ambulance
service.

Both men admitted a lone wolf terrorist attack is a concern in the wake of last
week's midnight cinema massacre in Aurora, Colorado, which saw 12 people shot
dead at a screening of the latest Batman film.

Speaking after the visit, Commissioner Hogan-Howe, 54, said: "Certainly in terms
of a lone wolf, it is always a possibility, an individual who, as we have seen
in America, gets hold of a firearm and does some terrible things. But we do have
things in place to prevent that happening.

"First of all we work with the security services to identify those people that
we think are at a risk of doing that.

"And then we have good systems in place to make sure, should the worst happen,
we deal with these things quickly.

"It's an open democracy, it's a free society, so there are some limits to what
we can do to intervene but I think we have got a good plan in place and good
continuous planning, and we have tried to remove as much of the threat as we
can."

Mr Johnson, 48, claimed he was "re-reassured" after visiting the specialist
operations room, which he said was imbued with a "moon-shot buzz" three days
ahead of the Olympics opening ceremony.

He joked with officers in the CCTV monitoring suite, who have access to 10,000
cameras all over London, saying that things seemed to be going "worryingly
well".

But asked about the threat of a lone wolf attack, he added: "Nothing you can do
here can make sure that any city in this country is completely safe. What you
can do is manage the risk, and everybody will appreciate that we are working
extremely hard to make sure of that."

After being introduced to members of the Specialist Operations Room by Olympics
gold commander Bob Broadhurst, the mayor said: "I have never been in any doubt
that we are in very good shape to deal with this operation, but what is so good
about this place here is that it brings together all the agencies involved in
security."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ Boris Johnson during a visit to a police specialist operations room
for the Games yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday

Agencies warn of major terror attack on Pakistan's Karachi in Ramadan - report

LENGTH: 209 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper Khabrain on 25 July

Karachi: There is a threat of a major terror attack in Karachi as banned
organizations may carry out some major incident in Karachi during the Ramadan
[month of fasting]. A plan has been made to target the security forces. The
intelligence agencies have informed the government.

According to sources, the intelligence agencies have sent a report to the
government which reveals that the terrorists of banned organizations have
prepared a plan for coordinated attacks on the security forces in Karachi on a
large scale and these organizations may carry out some major attack in the city.

The report says that on one hand, the Pakistan Rangers are arresting the
terrorists of banned organizations and sectarian parties in different areas of
the city during targeted operation and on other hand, the series of terrorist
attacks on the Pakistan Rangers has intensified. Two attacks have been carried
out on them during the last two weeks while bombs have been defused at three
locations.

According to the bomb disposal squad, there is a resemblance between the bombs
that have exploded during the recent incidents and those that have been defused.

Source: Khabrain, Islamabad, in Urdu 25 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       July 26, 2012 Thursday 5:54 PM GMT

Bloodbath in Iraq: Al Qaeda-backed terror group claims devastating bomb attacks
which left 113 dead are just the start of new campaign of violence

BYLINE: SAM ADAMS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 547 words



     ·    More than a hundred killed and hundreds more injured in attacks this
          week
     ·    Terror group's leader calls for Sunni tribes to send fighters to
          support them
     ·    Wave of violence is worst for two-and-a-half years


Al Qaeda has announced the launch of a new terror offensive in Iraq following a
wave of bloody attacks that left 113 people dead.

A spate of violence nationwide on Monday, which also wounded more than 250
people, was the worst to hit Iraq in more than two-and-a-half years and
shattered a period of relative calm in the lead-up to the holy Muslim fasting
month of Ramadan.

The Islamic State of Iraq (ISI) - a front group for Al-Qaeda - has claimed
responsibility for the attacks which it says mark the start of a new campaign of
destruction in the country.

The ISA announced the start of its new terror campaign in a statement posted on
jihadist forum Honein.

'As part of the new military campaign aimed at recovering territory given up by
the Islamic State of Iraq, the war ministry has sent its sons and the mujahedeen
on a sacred offensive during the month of Ramadan,' the group said.

'The operation by the jihadists has stunned the enemy and made him lose his
head. It has demonstrated the failings of the security and intelligence
services,' it continued.

In an Internet audio message purportedly left by its leader Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi, last weekend, the group said it would look to retake territory and
appealed for Sunni tribes to provide support and send fighters.

The message posted on various jihadist forums said the ISI would begin targeting
judges and prosecutors, and try to help its prisoners break out of Iraqi jails.

'We are starting a new stage,' said the voice on the audio message, purportedly
that of Baghdadi.

Al-Qaeda in Iraq is regarded by Iraqi officials as significantly weaker than at
the peak of its strength in 2006 and 2007, but it is still capable of
spectacular mass-casualty attacks across the country.

The recent surge in violence across the country has also been blamed, in part,
on the destabilising impact of escalating fighting between rebel and government
forces in neighbouring Syria.

Late on Tuesday a car bomb in the town of Ad-Dawr, in Salaheddin province north
of Baghdad, killed the wife and four children of a police captain, police and
medics said.

The attack came a day after Monday's spate of bombings and shootings, which drew
widespread international condemnation.

The wave of violence consisted of at least 29 separate attacks in 19 cities,
with most of the unrest concentrated in Baghdad and areas north of the capital.

In the deadliest incidents -- a string of roadside bombs and a car bomb followed
by a suicide attack targeting emergency responders in the town of Taji, just
north of Baghdad -- at least 42 people were killed and 40 wounded, medical
officials said.

US State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said Washington strongly
condemned the attacks.

'The targeting of innocents is always cowardly,' she said.

'It's particularly reprehensible during this holy month of Ramadan.'

The violence also drew condemnation from the United Nations special envoy to
Iraq, the country's parliament speaker, as well as France, Canada and
neighbouring Iran.

Monday's toll was the highest since December 8, 2009, when 127 people were
killed.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      July 26, 2012 Thursday 12:01 AM GMT

Drone attacks lead to terrorism;
The United States and Nato must put a stop to unmanned aerial vehicle attacks on
Pakistan - they are breeding resentment

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 267 words


Sir, As parliamentarians, we believe that unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) attacks
carried out by the United States are dangerously increasing resentment and anger
among the people of Pakistan. This results in revenge attacks that could
otherwise have been prevented. Since 2004, UAV covert missions - more often
referred to as "drone attacks" - have been concentrated within Pakistan, thereby
undermining the sovereignty of the nation, an ally to Britain in the war on
terror.

Until very recently the United States refused to acknowledge the existence of
such attacks. The Administration rejects allegations about the severity of the
mass casualties, which it deems to be "collateral damage", and instead prefers
vaguely to refer to the strikes as "covert intelligence operations".

According to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, more than 3,000 deaths have
occurred as a direct result of these secret strikes since they began in 2004,
including hundreds of children and innocent civilians. The North Waziristan
region of Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas has experienced the
heaviest concentration of drone attacks in recent years.

We urge the United States and Nato to stop these so-called "covert" CIA drone
attacks, not least because they play into the hands of the extremists and
terrorist recruiters but also because they undermine the sovereignty of
Pakistan.

Lord Ahmed of Rotherham; Lord Steel of Aikwood; Lord Judd; Lord Hussain of
Luton; Lord Rea Eskdale; Lord Avebury; John Hemming, MP; Paul Flynn, MP; Yasmin
Qureshi, MP; George Galloway, MP; Gerald Kaufman, MP; Simon Danzcuk, MP

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Drone attacks lead to terrorism;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 267 words


Sir, As parliamentarians, we believe that unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) attacks
carried out by the United States are dangerously increasing resentment and anger
among the people of Pakistan. This results in revenge attacks that could
otherwise have been prevented. Since 2004, UAV covert missions - more often
referred to as "drone attacks" - have been concentrated within Pakistan, thereby
undermining the sovereignty of the nation, an ally to Britain in the war on
terror.

Until very recently the United States refused to acknowledge the existence of
such attacks. The Administration rejects allegations about the severity of the
mass casualties, which it deems to be "collateral damage", and instead prefers
vaguely to refer to the strikes as "covert intelligence operations".

According to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, more than 3,000 deaths have
occurred as a direct result of these secret strikes since they began in 2004,
including hundreds of children and innocent civilians. The North Waziristan
region of Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas has experienced the
heaviest concentration of drone attacks in recent years.

We urge the United States and Nato to stop these so-called "covert" CIA drone
attacks, not least because they play into the hands of the extremists and
terrorist recruiters but also because they undermine the sovereignty of
Pakistan. lord ahmed of rotherham; lord steel of aikwood; lord judd; lord
hussain of luton; lord rea eskdale; lord avebury; john hemming, mp; paul flynn,
mp; yasmin qureshi, mp; george galloway, mp; gerald kaufman, mp; simon danzcuk,
mp

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Drone attacks lead to terrorism;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 267 words


Sir, As parliamentarians, we believe that unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) attacks
carried out by the United States are dangerously increasing resentment and anger
among the people of Pakistan. This results in revenge attacks that could
otherwise have been prevented. Since 2004, UAV covert missions - more often
referred to as "drone attacks" - have been concentrated within Pakistan, thereby
undermining the sovereignty of the nation, an ally to Britain in the war on
terror.

Until very recently the United States refused to acknowledge the existence of
such attacks. The Administration rejects allegations about the severity of the
mass casualties, which it deems to be "collateral damage", and instead prefers
vaguely to refer to the strikes as "covert intelligence operations".

According to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, more than 3,000 deaths have
occurred as a direct result of these secret strikes since they began in 2004,
including hundreds of children and innocent civilians. The North Waziristan
region of Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas has experienced the
heaviest concentration of drone attacks in recent years.

We urge the United States and Nato to stop these so-called "covert" CIA drone
attacks, not least because they play into the hands of the extremists and
terrorist recruiters but also because they undermine the sovereignty of
Pakistan.

LORD AHMED OF ROTHERHAM; LORD STEEL OF AIKWOOD; LORD JUDD; LORD HUSSAIN OF
LUTON; LORD REA ESKDALE; LORD AVEBURY; JOHN HEMMING, MP; PAUL FLYNN, MP; YASMIN
QURESHI, MP; GEORGE GALLOWAY, MP; GERALD KAUFMAN, MP; SIMON DANZCUK, MP

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              July 27, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

I THOUGHT I'D DIE;
Boy, 12, tells of his terror after attack by vicious Japanese dog

BYLINE: VICTORIA McMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 284 words


A TERRIFIED boy thought he was going to die as he was attacked by a vicious
Japanese hunting dog.

Caoimhin McFadden was playing with friends when the Akita turned on him.

The dog's teeth tore through the 12-year-old's jacket and sunk into his left
arm. playing with ned on him.

Despite being in incredible pain the schoolboy thumped the animal's head with a
drinks can in his free hand in a desperate bid to free himself from its jaws.

The Akita loosened its grip, allowing the injured boy and his friend to run
away.

But the dog gave chase and as the pair climbed over railings it grabbed at
Caoimhin's leg - luckily, he was able to shake it off.

The boy's mother Kelly said he has been having nightmares since the attack in
the Galliagh area of Derry on Tuesday evening.

She added: "When I got there here he was in hysterics and saying he thought he
was going to die. The sister [at the hospital] said his injuries were horrific -
the size of teeth marks.

"They can't stitch it up and he's on a strong antibiotic to kill any infection
from the dog.

"Caoimhin was crazy about dogs but now I'm worried he'll be terrified.

"He's had trouble sleeping and he's waking up saying he keeps seeing the dog's
face."

Kelly now fears her son is mentally scarred by the attack and will have the
puncture wounds for life.

She said: "My Caoimhin is a stocky wee lad - a younger child wouldn't have stood
a chance."

It is understood the dog will be put down this morning and Derry City Council
has said it is holding an investigation into the attack.

Caoimhin added the ordeal was "very scary."

He said: "It was so sore, my w a"dog dogs whole arm was all ripped open. "It was
the biggest dog I ever saw. I love dogs but I'm scared now."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROBE Japanese Akita
INJURIES Caoimhin McFadden yesterday in a sling and, inset, bites on his arm

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 28, 2012 Saturday

Eight Algerian soldiers said wounded by "terrorists" in convoy attack

LENGTH: 122 words


Eight Algerian soldiers have been wounded in an attack on their convoy by "a
group of armed men" in the Berber province of Tizi Ouzou, some 100 km east of
Algiers, the privately-owned French-language daily newspaper El Watan reported
in its online edition on 28 July.

The paper quoted local sources as saying that the attack took place the previous
day at 2200 [2100 gmt], when "terrorists clashed with soldiers for some 10
minutes, before withdrawing towards the nearby forests".

Two weeks ago, a police hotel came under a home-made mortar attack by armed men,
injuring three, including a local police chief in the Berber town of Azzefoun,
in Tizi Ouzou Province, El Watan added.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 28 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      July 28, 2012 Saturday 10:51 AM GMT

Outrage as U.S. broadcaster NBC edits out Olympics Opening Ceremony tribute to
victims of 7/7 terrorist attacks

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 458 words



     ·    Segment included a touching rendition of Abide With Me by Emeli Sande
     ·    But NBC viewers instead shown interview with swimmer Michael Phelps
     ·    Twitter has been flooded with furious comments demanding an
          explanation


Viewers have reacted with outrage after U.S. broadcaster NBC cut a tribute to
the 7/7 bombing victims from its coverage of the Olympics Opening Ceremony.

During the spectacular curtain-raiser, there was a poignant segment where the
faces of those who died in the 2005 terror attacks were shown on big screens
around the stadium.

This was followed by a touching rendition of Abide With Me by Scottish singer
Emeli Sande, which some believe was also in memory of the war dead.

But the song was edited out of NBC's coverage in favour of a bland Ryan Seacrest
interview with Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps, it was reported on Deadspin.com.

Twitter very quickly became awash with comments demanding to know why the
broadcaster had chosen that moment to break away from proceedings.

Scott Carruthers said: 'NBC cut tribute to the 7/7 victims from #olympicceremony
coverage, shocking considering we honour the 9/11 victims at every opportunity.'

Dave Hogg tweeted: 'NBC skilled a tribute to servicemen and the 7/7 victims to
show Seacrest interviewing Phelps. That's horrendous'.

Meanwhile, Tamsin Wood said: 'So NBC cut out our tribute to the 7/7 victims for
a stupid interview!! Rude and disrespectful on so many levels!!
#openingceremony.'

NBC is known for cutting away for small portions of the opening ceremonies to
make way for commercial, but U.S. commentators say they have never heard of it
skipping a whole performance before.

The memorial was a moving section on a night full of pomp, humour and high drama
that got the Greatest Show On Earth up and running in truly British style.

The BBC introduced the segment by saying: 'Ladies and gentlemen, please pause
silent for our memorial wall for friends and family who can't be here tonight.

'The excitement of that moment in Singapore seven years ago when England won the
games was tempered the next day with sorrow from the events of July 7 that year.
A wall of remembrance for those no longer here to share in this event.'

The big screens then showed a montage of images of spectators' loved ones who
have passed away, including the late fathers of Danny Boyle, the show's director
and London 2012 chief Lord Coe.

Dancers dressed in red, representing the struggle between life and death, were
picked out by a spotlight in the darkness of the stadium as the powerful vocals
of Sande pierced the air with Abide With Me.

This was followed by the procession of the 204 countries taking part and the
lighting of the cauldron to signal the start of the Games.

NBS have not yet responded to requests for comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 30, 2012 Monday

Ugandan police warn of terror attacks ahead of circumcision season

LENGTH: 341 words


Text of report by Simon Masaba entitled "Police warn of terror attacks ahead of
Imbalu start" published by state-owned, mass-circulation Ugandan daily The New
Vision website on 30 July

The police have issued a terrorism alert ahead of the official launch of the
traditional Bugisu circumcision season, locally known as Imbalu.

Diana Nandaula, the eastern region police spokesperson told New Vision last week
that the alert should be higher in Mbale and surrounding regions which are the
popular locations for the Imbalu tradition.

The official start of the traditional circumcision will be launched on 3 August
at Mutoto grounds in Bugema, Mbale District [eastern Uganda].

As has been in the past, thousands of locals are expected to attend the launch.

Police and other security operatives are on high alert, and have called for
vigilance from the public prevent any possible terrorist attack.

Nandaula described the fight against terrorism as a social responsibility that
calls for collective effort where physical security measures alone cannot
exhaustively fight terrorism.

She also warned against drunken driving, thefts, rape as it has characteristic
of the past such events.

"Dance and do all the necessary as the tradition takes you but do not regret if
you fall on the wrong side and in Police's hands," Nandaula cautioned.

She also told the public to be suspicious of peculiar unexpected items wrapped
in polythene bags as gifts to the Basinde, the circumcision candidates.

"Suitcases, briefcases, suspiciously parked motor vehicles as people will be
dancing all over streets of Mbale should not be tampered with, for you cannot
tell what is in," Nandaula said.

Last month, police stepped up security at all its units and especially at places
of worship following the apparent change of tactics by terrorists in light of
the recent attacks on churches in Kenya.

"Most gatherings are targets of terrorists. Imbalu attracts many people so we
should keep our heads up for safety," Nandaula said.

Source: The New Vision website, Kampala, in English 30 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                              July 30, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;

Iraq attacks kill 7 police;
TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 72 words


TERRORISTS killed seven police officers and injured nine in bombings and a
drive-by shooting in central Iraq yesterday.

Three died when two cars blew up within minutes of each other in Fallujah, a
former al-Qaeda stronghold 40 miles west of Baghdad.

Gunmen fired on a nearby village's police station 15 minutes later, killing four
more officers.

The attackers escaped but police later sealed off roads into the city and
imposed a curfew.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              July 30, 2012 Monday
                                 Lancs Edition

IRAQ ATTACKS KILL 7 POLICE;
TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 72 words


TERRORISTS killed seven police officers and injured nine in bombings and a
drive-by shooting in central Iraq yesterday.

Three died when two cars blew up within minutes of each other in Fallujah, a
former al-Qaeda stronghold 40 miles west of Baghdad.

Gunmen fired on a nearby village's police station 15 minutes later, killing four
more officers.

The attackers escaped but police later sealed off roads into the city and
imposed a curfew.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 31, 2012 Tuesday

Maldivian MP terms UN human rights report "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 400 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "UN report a terrorist attack plotted by
people against Maldivian nationality - MP Nihan" published by Maldivian
newspaper Miadhu website on 30 July

The report by the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) was a "terrorist attack" with
some people, who are against the Maldivian nationality, behind it, said Nihan
Hussain Manik, pro-government PPM [Progressive Party of Maldives] MP for
Vilimaafannu constituency.

Hussain Manik said that no matter how devious are the plots to make other
religions infiltrate Maldives, no one would be given the opportunity, and that
there were Maldivians who would sacrifice anything to prevent that.

"In history, [ancient] king Hassan committed apostasy and did the same. He sent
the Portuguese. [National Hero] 'Boduthakurufaanu' re-claimed the nation. Then
'Holhin' infiltrators [from Malabar coast of India] were defeated by
'Dhonbandaarain'. We were saved from all such tragedies. The Maldivians are
ready to 'shed' their blood for the cause of Islam."

Manik said that the claims by 'Ithihad' [ 23 December uprising against former
president Nasheed] that the former government was 'un-Islamic' had now turned
out to be true. "We won't allow any organization to create religious divide
among Maldivians. We will ask the people on the issue of death penalty. There's
none who could challenge the people of a nation."

Nihan said that the Maldives had signed different international conventions in a
way that would prevent the constitution, and there shouldn't be any reason why
the Maldivians cannot protect the Islamic religion. He also said that religious
divisions could not be allowed though there are some who want it. "We can't give
the freedom to practice any religion that one wishes. We can't allow same-sex
marriage. We can't allow these."

Hussain Manik said that the "perpetrator" behind these reports issued by the UN
is the former foreign minister Dr.Ahmed Shaheed. "He said that we can't build
cathedrals, but there should be places of worship for foreigners coming to the
country. What is he referring to?"

"It's a sad day, a day that every Muslim will cry. Every Maldivian is sad that
there are challenges to remaining as Muslims. Every God loving citizen will be
sad about this."

Hussain Manik said that "whatever the enemies' plan, Maldivians will remain
Muslims."

Source: Miadhu News website, Male, in English 30 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 31, 2012 Tuesday

Discovery of bomb averts terrorist attack in Russian Caucasus

LENGTH: 71 words


A bomb found on a public beach in Makhachkala, in the Russian Caucasus republic
of Dagestan, has been safely detonated by explosives engineers, the Ministry of
Defence TV channel Zvezda reported on 30 July.

The explosive yield was from 300 to 500 g of TNT-equivalent, it said.

Video at 1816 gmt shows cordoned off area, bomb, remote-control detonation of
device, explosion.

Source: Zvezda TV, Moscow, in Russian 1800 gmt 30 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 1, 2012 Wednesday

India: Police say held suspect lived with Pakistan terrorists before '08 attacks

LENGTH: 198 words


Text of report published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 1 August

Mumbai: Senior crime branch sources on Tuesday said that Zabiuddin Ansari, alias
Abu Jundal, had lived with the 26/11 terrorists for 10 days before they arrived
in Mumbai.

"The 10 terrorists who carried out the attacks were trained in the LeT's
training camp in Muridke, Pakistan. Our investigations have revealed that he had
lived with them for 10 days in a room in Muridke, before they left for Mumbai
from Pakistan to execute the 26/11 attacks," a senior crime branch officer said.

Seeking Jundal's custody, special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam said that the
police had collected the DNA samples from the boat Kuber, in which the 10
terrorists had arrived in Mumbai. He said that some samples obtained from the
boat matched those of the deceased terrorists and now, the police wanted to
ascertain if Jundal's DNA sample was also among those collected from the boat.

Mr Nikam also told the court that Jundal had created email IDs in fictitious
names and that the crime branch wanted to retrieve these IDs with his help, as
he alone knew the passwords.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 01 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 1, 2012 Wednesday 4:37 PM GMT

The end of al-Qaeda? US claims it has broken the back of the terrorist group as
attacks fall to 2005 levels

BYLINE: REUTERS REPORTER and DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 560 words


US officials claim they have broken the back of the al-Qaeda network with the
assassinations of Osama bin Laden and other top leaders -- dealing the terrorist
group a blow from which it is unlikely to recover.

Terrorist attacks have fallen to the lowest levels since 2005, a sign that
al-Qaeda is weakened and has lost some of its ability to deal death and
destruction, according to a report released on Tuesday by the US State
Department.

However, counter-terrorism officials were quick to point out that al-Qaeda and
other terrorist groups remain active and dangerous throughout the world.

Scroll down for video

Still, the annual 'Country Reports on Terrorism' called 2011 a 'landmark year,'
marked by the death of al-Qaeda's founder during a dramatic Navy SEAL raid in
May and the assassination of US-born radical cleric Anwar al-Awlaki in Yemen.

'The loss of bin Laden and these other key operatives puts the network on a path
of decline that will be difficult to reverse,' according to the State
Department.

The report attributed the killings, which included the May 2011 raid in which US
commandos shot bin Laden in Pakistan, to improved cooperation on
counter-terrorism. But it also cautioned al-Qaeda is adaptable and poses 'an
enduring and serious threat.'

While saying there were no terrorist attacks in the United States last year, the
report said the US government remains concerned about 'threats to the homeland,'
citing the foiled 2009 Christmas Day attempt by the Nigerian 'underwear bomber'
who sought to blow up a Detroit-bound aircraft.

The report included a statistical annex prepared by the National
Counterterrorism Center, part of the US intelligence community, that showed that
the overall number of terrorist attacks worldwide fell to 10,283 last year from
11,641 in 2010.

The number of worldwide fatalities fell to 12,533 last year from 13,193 the year
before, according to the statistics, which NCTC issued in a report published on
June 1.

That was the lowest level since 2005, when there were more than 11,000 attacks
and more than 14,000 fatalities. The general decline in terrorism-related
fatalities - which peaked at more than 22,000 in 2007 - reflects, in part, less
violence in Iraq.

The State Department report said that as al-Qaeda's 'core has gotten weaker,'
affiliated groups have gained ground, citing al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
as a particular threat and voicing concern about al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb.

It also reported an increase in terrorist attacks in Africa, due largely to
Nigeria's Boko Haram militant group, as well as in the Western Hemisphere, which
it attributed chiefly to FARC insurgents in Colombia.

Daniel Benjamin, the State Department's coordinator for counter-terrorism, said
last year was also significant for the 'Arab Spring; of popular protests and
what he described as its rebuff to al Qaeda's ideology.

'We saw millions of citizens throughout the Middle East advance peaceful public
demands for change without any reference to al-Qaeda's incendiary world view,'
he said, adding that upheaval also presents risks.

'Revolutionary transformations have many bumps in the road,' he added.
'Inspiring as the moment may be, we are not blind to the attendant perils.'

VIDEO: The US State Department says al-Qaeda are weaker...

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday

Iraq's interior ministry foils "terrorist" attack in Baghdad; roundup 31 July

LENGTH: 983 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Satellite Television in Arabic, in its evening newscasts on
31 July, reports on the visit of Iranian Minister of Interior Muhammad Mustafa
Najjar to Baghdad to extend President Mahmud Ahmadinezhad's invitation to his
Iraqi counterpart to attend the summit of the Non-Aligned Movement, NAM; a
statement by Amir al-Khuza'i, adviser to the prime minister for reconciliation
affairs, saying that the only way to put an end to the presence of the
Al-Qa'idah Organization in Iraq is by adopting a security solution; a statement
by Minister of Displacement and Migration Dindar Ndjeman Dosky saying that it
was not possible to receive the displaced Syrians in any governorate besides in
Al-Anbar and Ninawa Governorates; and other political and security developments.

Political developments:

Within its 1300 GMT newscast, the channel reports the following:

-  "Iranian Minister of Interior Muhammad Mustafa Najjar arrived in Baghdad this
morning in an official visit to discuss the means for promoting bi-lateral
cooperation. Ministry of Interior Undersecretary Adnan al-Asadi said that
discussions will discuss the pending issues between the two countries as well as
the means for promoting the security cooperation and fighting drugs."

-  "The Iranian minister of interior has expressed his country's desire to
promote bi lateral cooperation, pointing out that he will extend an invitation
for President Jalal Talabani from his Iranian counterpart to take part in the
NAM Summit that will be held in Tehran."

-  "Vice President Khudayr al-Khuza'i received today an official invitation
addressed to President Talabani from his Iranian counterpart to take part in the
NAM Summit that will be held in Tehran in August 2012. The letter was delivered
by Iranian Minister of Interior Muhammad Mustafa Najjar. A statement issued by
the office of the vice president said that Al-Khuza'i described the meeting as
an opportunity for Arab and Islamic countries to meet and discuss many key and
critical issues."

-  "In a statement to the Iraqi Media Network news centre [IMN], Amir
al-Khuza'i, adviser to the prime minister for reconciliation affairs, has said
that the only way to put an end to the presence of the Al-Qa'idah Organization
in Iraq is by adopting a security solution. Al-Khuza'i added that there are many
strongholds for the Al-Qa'idah Organization in Diyala Governorate, mainly in the
Hawd Hamrin area [as heard] because of its geographical nature. Al-Khuza'i
pointed out that the reconciliation project did not include the takfiris [those
who hold other Muslims to be infidels] and the murderers."

-  "Ra'd al-Dahlaki, member of the parliamentary Legal Commission, has said that
the commission has completed the final amendment to the Political Parties Law
after concluding the first and second reading in the Council of Representatives.
Al-Dahlaki pointed out that the law will be passed for voting during the
upcoming few days. Al-Dahlaki added that the main amendment to the law was
related to the impartiality and the independency of the side supervising the
work of the political parties, pointing out that the law has stipulated many
administrative and professional measures in order to allow the public opinion to
observe the work of these parties."

-  "A well-informed parliamentary source has told the IMN that the speakership
announced that the vote on the second amendment of the Provincial Councils,
Districts, and Neighbourhoods Elections Law will be held on 01 August. The
source added that the decision to postpone the voting was made to allow the
competent commissions to reach an agreement on all the articles of the
amendment. The Regional and Governorate Commission held a joint meeting with the
Legal Commission and it was decided to annul the section included in the article
six related to the numbers of the mem bers of the provincial councils as well as
the neighbourhoods and districts' councils."

-  "Minister of Displacement and Migration Dindar Ndjeman Dosky has confirmed
that it was not possible to transport the displaced Syrians to any governorate
besides to Al-Anbar and Ninawa Governorates where the camps are installed. In a
statement to the IMN, Dosky said that the process of transporting the displaced
Syrians to the other governorates was not possible; pointing out that the other
governorates can provide services for the camps in Al-Anbar and Ninawa.
Salah-al-Din Governorate Deputy Governor Ahmad Abdallah had told the IMN that
the governorate called for facilitating the necessary measures for the displaced
Syrians in order to transport them to the governorate. "

Security developments:

Within its 1800 GMT newscast, the channel reports the following:

-  "The Ministry of Interior has announced that it has foiled a terrorist attack
on the Counterterrorism Department. In a news statement, the ministry said that
its forces foiled a terrorist attack on the Counterterrorism Department, adding
that the terrorists attempted to storm the department in a bid to free leading
terrorist figures detained in the department. The ministry added that the
terrorists attempted to enter the department by detonating an explosive device
that was followed by the detonation of a booby-trapped car at the gate of the
department. However, the guards of the ministry foiled the attack, killed two
terrorists, and banned access to the jail where the terrorists were detained.
The Interior Minister said that a lieutenant colonel was martyred and two
members of the security forces were wounded during the terrorist attack."

-  "Interior Ministry Undersecretary Adnan al-Asadi has told the IMN that
intelligence information led the security forces to arrest the terrorists who
were attempting to storm the Counterterrorism Department today in Baghdad after
they were stopped by the security apparatuses."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1300 gmt 31 Jul 12

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday

Afghan security forces foil terror attack in capital TV

LENGTH: 718 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Noor TV on 2 August

[Presenter] The Interior Ministry says that five suicide assailants, who
intended to carry out suicide attacks in Kabul city this morning, have been
killed by the National Directorate of Security [NDS]. An Interior Ministry
spokesman has also said that the police have carried out 16 operations in
different parts of the country over the past 24 hours which have resulted in the
killing of 24 Taleban rebels, wounding of two and detention of three others. In
the meantime, the head of the anti-crime branch of Kabul police headquarters
speaks about the arrest of two mine planters in Bagrami Area of Kabul city.

Hazrat Mohammad with more details:

[Correspondent] The head of the anti-crime branch of the Kabul police
headquarters says that five suicide bombers, who had entered Kabul city to carry
out attacks, were killed by security forces this morning. In the meantime, the
Interior Ministry spokesman says that their first impression is that the
individuals were members of the Haqqani network.

[Mohammad Zaher, head of the anti-crime branch of Kabul police headquarters,
captioned] [We have] seized a lot of explosives from there. They wanted to come
to Kabul city with three vehicles packed with explosives and criminals, who
wanted to commit a crime, wanted to create horror in Kabul. Luckily, given the
fact that NDS forces had precise information and since they had good
information, their operation was also very good, professional, successful and
brave; so they managed to kill all of them.

[Sediq Sediqi, Interior Ministry spokesman, captioned] All the evidence from the
operation and the tactics and methods they used show that the tactics were used
by the Haqqani network. There is no doubt in this and our initial impression is
that the Haqqani network has been involved in this.

[Correspondent] Interior Ministry spokesman Sediq Sediqi, who was speaking at a
joint press conference with head of the anti-crime branch of Kabul police
headquarters in Kabul, added that the police have carried out 16 operations in
different parts of the country over the past 24 hours which have resulted in the
killing of 24 Taleban rebels, wounding of two and detention of three others.

[Sediqi] The national police of Afghanistan carried out nearly 16 operations
over the past 24 hours. They were very important and efficient and inflicted a
heavy blow on the Taleban and the enemies of the people of Afghanistan. During
the operations carried out in Konduz, Kandahar, Zabol, Urozgan, Maydan-Wardag,
Logar and Ghazni Provinces, 24 Taleban members have been killed, two others were
wounded and three others were detained by the Afghan national police.

[Correspondent] According to Interior Ministry spokesman, the security forces
have also seized several light and heavy weapons during the operations. the
Interior Ministry spokesman also spoke about a special operation by the national
police in Maydan-Wardag and Helmand Provinces and said that during the
operations, 20 barrels containing explosive materials, 100 mines, and 20
communication devices were seized. According to him, some 16 [terrorists] have
been detained and nine drug-producing factories destroyed. In the meantime, the
head of the anti-crime branch of Kabul police headquarters said that they have
detained two mine planters in Bagrami District of Kabul Province. [Passage
omitted]

[A detained terrorist, in Pashto] I have come for jihad against infidels. We did
not want to target the police, intelligence forces and the people.

[A detained terrorist, in Pashto] As far as the people, vehicles and Muslims are
concerned, we did not allow anybody to press the button [in order to detonate
the mine]. We only waited for the British and US [forces].

[Correspondent] Interior Ministry officials have said that the Haqqani network
is regarded as a serious threat for the security forces and urged Afghanistan's
Western allies to try to annihilate bases of the network on the other side of
the border.

[Video shows Interior Ministry spokesman, head of the anti-crime branch of Kabul
police headquarters and two detained people speaking; archive footage of
security forces; police vehicles and convoys, heavy machineguns and a group of
insurgents].

Source: Noor TV, Kabul, in Dari 1300 gmt 2 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday

Spain arrests three suspected of plotting terror attack

BYLINE: Giles Tremlettguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 276 words

ABSTRACT

Explosives found during arrests of men interior minister says were planning an
attack in Spain or elsewhere in Europe

FULL TEXT

Spanish police have arrested three suspected violent Islamists who had enough
explosives to blow a bus apart, according to Spain's interior minister, Jorge
Fernández.

The explosives were found at the home of one of those arrested, a Turkish
national who lived in San Roque, southern Spain, with his Moroccan wife, but
crossed the border every day into Gibraltar, where he worked.

Police were trying to determine the nationalities of the others, but believed
that they were from somewhere in the former Soviet Union - possibly Chechnya.

All three had received training in Pakistan or Afghanistan, according to Spanish
police, and had been seen using a motor-power paraglider.

"The explosives ... would have been especially damaging if shrapnel had been
added," said Fernández.

The three men had been plotting an attack somewhere in either Spain or elsewhere
in Europe, he said.

Two were arrested as they waited to board a bus to the French border at Irún,
northern Spain.

They had been in Spain for the past month, but had reportedly been tracked by
western security services for months.

Spanish police believe the three men are somehow connected to Lashkar-e-Taiba,
the group India blames for the 2008 attacks in Mumbai in which 166 people died.

The arrests come amid increasing concern in Spain about the growth of
al-Qaida-supporting groups in the Sahara region.

Spain evacuated NGO workers from camps in the Tindouf area of the western Sahara
this week, claiming it had intelligence that Islamist radicals were planning
kidnappings.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 2, 2012 Thursday 4:43 PM GMT

Spanish police foil al-Qaeda terror attack;
Spanish police have arrested three suspected members of al-Qaeda who had amassed
explosives and were thought to be targeting military bases, including Gibraltar.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 539 words


The three - a Russian, a Russian of Chechen descent and a Turk, according to
Spanish police - were detained Wednesday. Two of the terror suspects had
practiced flying light aircraft.

The Turk was arrested in the southern city of La Linea bordering the British
colony of Gibraltar, while the other two were picked up near the central city of
Ciudad Real as they traveled toward a northern Spanish town near the border with
France.

The Turkish suspect, described by police as a "facilitator", worked in
Gibraltar.

Enough explosive material was found in the house in La Linea where the Turk
lived to blow up a bus, and the material could be especially dangerous if
combined with shrapnel, Jorge Fernandez Diaz, Spain's interior minister said.

Investigators found no indications that the three were targeting Gibraltar, he
said, declining to offer specifics on possible targets, except that "there are
clear indications they could have been planning an attack in Spain and/or
another country."

"This is one of the most important operations carried out against al-Qaeda,"
Fernandez Diaz told reporters. He said the operation involved close
collaboration with intelligence services from "Spain's allies," without
identifying any of the countries.

The arrests came as the Summer Olympics were being held in Britain under tight
security against possible terrorist attacks, including military aircraft and
ground-to-air missiles.

Spanish authorities had been watching the suspects for "some time," the minister
said and decided to arrest them after the Russian and the Russian of Chechen
descent took a bus toward France.

The two arrested in the bus were traveling from southern Cadiz to the northern
town of Irun, possibly intending to cross into France, the minister said. The
pair had been in Spain for about two months. Cadiz is near the large US military
base in Rota alongside the Mediterranean.

"Police moved to arrest them when it became known that they planned to leave
Spain," he said.

Fernandez Diaz did not disclose the suspects' names, but said two were suspected
al-Qaida operatives while the Turk was a facilitator. Pictures of the suspects
were released by Spanish authorities but they were identified only by their
initials: C.Y. for the Turk and A.A.A. and M.A. for the other two.

The mug shots showed three men who appeared to be in their 30s, two with crew
cuts and one with hair down to his shoulders.

The minister described one operative as a key member of the terror network, and
said both operatives had practiced flying in light aircraft, without saying
where or whether authorities suspect they might have been plotting an attack
using aircraft. One was also an expert in explosives and poisonous substances,
said Fernandez Diaz.

They will appear soon before an investigating magistrate at the National Court
in Madrid and be detained while the judge studies the case and decides on
possible charges. That process could take anywhere from days to months, and
authorities are not likely to release more details about the case until the
judge finishes that work.

Spanish police have arrested dozens of al-Qaida suspects since the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks in the United States, and more after the 2004 train bombings in
Madrid.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                            August 2, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mau mau did not stage terrorist attacks;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 275 words


With reference to the letter from Greg Heathcliffe (Western Daily Press, July
20) in which he stated that the mau mau launched a series of terrorist attacks
on white farmers that resulted in the loss of life and property to innocent
white people, he needs to get his facts right before he jumps on the bandwagon.
If he had taken the time to study history he would have known that for over 500
years the Europeans have occupied Africa, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, North
America, South America and the West Indies.

It is a known fact that the invaders sole intentions were to control the
inhabitants, physically and sexually assaulted them, confiscated their lands and
stripped the country of its wealth, not to mention the series of widespread
massacre.

What terrorist attacks did the mau mau launch on innocent white people? Why
should the oppressors get away with their atrocities? Retaliation should be
executed whenever the socalled masters think they've got the right to control
peoples lives. The mau mau were not terrorists, they were freedom fighters
rightfully reclaiming their possessions, dignity and freedom. In 1953 Jomo
Kenyatta, a courageous freedom fighter who tirelessly maintained his opposition
to the British brutal colonial rule in Kenya, was falsely accused of involvement
with the mau mau and sentenced to seven years hard labour in prison by the
British.

The time has come when the oppressors must admit to their merciless crimes and
made to pay not only in hard currency but by any means necessary. H Martin
Swindon Join the debate Letters to the Editor, Western Daily Press, Temple Way,
Bristol, BS99 7HD Email wdletters@bepp.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2012 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Syrian authorities pursue "terrorists" behind attack on refugee camp

LENGTH: 57 words


Damascus Syrian Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 1743 GMT on 2 August
carries the following "breaking" news as a screen caption:

"Concerned authorities are tracking down terrorists, who fired mortar shells at
Al-Yarmuk refugee camp, wounding a number of citizens."

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1743 gmt 2 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Four Algerian soldiers killed in "terrorist" attack near Moroccan border

LENGTH: 127 words


Four Algerian soldiers have been killed in a "terrorist attack" on a patrol of
border guards near the Moroccan border, the Internet site of the
privately-owned, French-language daily newspaper El Watan reported on 3 August.

The paper said that the four soldiers were shot dead the previous day when their
Toyota vehicle came under "intense fire" by an undetermined number of armed men
between the areas of Zouia and Roubane "a few metres away from the border". "The
terrorists then fled to the Asfour mount which stretches up to the Moroccan
territory," El Watan added.

The border between the two countries has been closed since 1994 following an
attack in Marrakesh which Morocco blames on Algerian intelligence.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 3 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 6, 2012 Monday

Russia: Three warnings of terror attacks in five days received in North Ossetia

LENGTH: 424 words


Text of report by Russian Kavkazskiy Uzel website, specializing in news from the
Caucasus,

For a third time in the past five days, all marketplaces and kindergartens were
closed and people were evacuated in Vladikavkaz [capital of Russia's North
Caucasus Republic of North Ossetia - Alania], Alla Akhpolova, the head of the
press service of the region's Interior Ministry, has reported.

We would like to remind you that after a 2 August telephone call on a bomb
planted, all marketplaces were evacuated in Vladikavkaz, but policemen failed to
find any explosive devices in any of them. A young man of 21 was detained on
suspicion of consciously making the false message and he made confessionary
statements. On 4 August, a policeman received an SMS message on his cell phone,
saying that a marketplace in Vladikavkaz was mined, which was followed by the
inspection of all marketplaces and kindergartens of the city. The message on
mining did not prove to be true.

"A policeman under detail, who is in the [neighbouring] Republic of Ingushetia,
received an SMS again, saying that a terrorist attack was to be carried out on a
marketplace or kindergarten and people were evacuated from marketplaces and
kindergartens in this connection," Alla Akhpolva said.

According to her, the special services have sent signals on two residents of
Ingushetia, who may be preparing a terrorist attack. They have been put on a
wanted list, Interfax-Yug reported.

Pictures and information on the suspects have been posted on the republic's
Interior Ministry.

According to the agency, Mikail Ozdoyev, born in 1988, who was previous found
guilty of illegal trade in weapons and is currently on the federal wanted list
under Article 209.2 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation - "banditry"
- and Timur Ortskhanov, born in 1988, who has a clean record, are among those
suspected of planning to carry out a terrorist attack on North Ossetian
territory using vehicles.

The Interior Ministry asked people to be cautious. "If you find suspicious
objects, please do not take any independent actions, but immediately inform the
police. If you know anything about the people shown in the pictures, please
immediately appeal to Interior Ministry departments or call 594600 or 02," a
message of the agency says.

Kavkazskiy Uzel wrote previously that a terrorist attack was carried out in the
central marketplace in the capital of North Ossetia on 9 September 2010.
Nineteen people were killed and more than 160 wounded.

Source: Kavkaz-uzel.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 06 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                 August 6, 2012
                                 First Edition

Two Chechens charged with plotting terror attack;
SPAIN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 138 words


A Spanish judge has charged two Chechen men suspected of plotting a terror
attack in Spain or elsewhere in Europe with belonging to a terror organisation
and of the possession of explosives.

Ordering both men to be remanded in custody, Judge Pablo Ruz of the National
Court said there was evidence linking them with others known to be involved with
terrorist organisations. A Turkish national with whom they have been linked was
charged on Friday with the possession of explosives and a device likely to be
used in a terror attack.

Spain's interior minister has described the Chechens as suspected al-Qai'da
members and said the Turk is suspected of being a facilitator for the group. He
was arrested on Thursday in the southern city of La Linea, while the Chechens
were held on Wednesday on a bus heading towards the French border. AP

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2012 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 6, 2012 Monday 11:40 PM GMT

David Cameron: world must 'never forget' Olympic Munich massacre;
The world must "never forget" the terrorist attacks that killed Israeli athletes
at the Munich Olympics, David Cameron has said.

BYLINE: By Rowena Mason Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 266 words


On the 40th anniversary of the attack, the Prime Minister led tributes to the 11
men who lost their lives on "one of the darkest days in the history of the
Olympic Games".

He said Britain understands the terrible impact of terrorism as the London 2012
Olympics were announced the day before the bombings on July 7, 2005.

"The British people know only too well what it is like to suffer at the hands of
terrorists," he said.

"Our euphoria at winning the right to host these Olympics was brutally shattered
within just 24 hours when terrorists targeted the London transport system and 52
innocent men and women were murdered.

"Our two countries, Britain and Israel share the same determination to fight
terrorism and to ensure that these evil deeds will never win."

Mr Cameron was speaking at a memorial event to mark the massacre by Palestinian
gunmen during the 1972 summer Olympics in Germany.

He described it as a "sickening act of terrorism that betrayed everything the
Olympic movement stands for and everything that we in Britain believe in".

"It was a truly shocking act of evil," he said. "A crime against the Jewish
people. A crime against humanity. A crime the world must never forget.

He also said the world must remember the six Israeli holiday makers murdered by
a suicide bomber in Bulgaria just last month.

"Britain will always be a staunch friend of Israel," he said. "And we will stand
with the Jewish people - and with all victims of terror around the world,
whoever they are and wherever they are from."

The ceremony will also be attended by Nick Clegg, the deputy Prime Minister.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 6, 2012 Monday 1:26 PM GMT

7/7 doctor: Olympic Games have given me closure;
A doctor who treated victims of the 7/7 terrorist attacks said volunteering at
the Olympics had given him closure on the tragic event seven years later.

BYLINE: By Telegraph reporters

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 246 words


Dr Andrew Hartle, an intensive care consultant at St Mary's Hospital in
Paddington, said the attacks - in which 52 died and hundreds more were injured -
had always been inextricably linked to the London 2012 games.

The terror attacks unfolded just 24 hours after the city celebrated being
awarded the Olympics.

Dr Hartle, one of 70,000 Games Makers volunteering in London, said: "We had just
won the Games and the only thing people were talking about during the first hour
of work that day was the Olympics.

"Most of us were pretty cynical. What was the impact going to be on those who
lived and worked in London?"

He added: "Then, as you all know, the day turned out to be about something
completely different, with the terrorist attack on London.

"I was there and I did my job. It wasn't the job we planned to do that day, but
we did it, and we did it well.

"For most of the last seven years those two events - the award of the Games and
the July bombings - have been pretty inextricably linked.

"I found the opening ceremony really quite cathartic. It really gave me closure.

"London is now known for something else - it is known for hosting the Games.
Being part of it has been an astonishing experience."

Dr Hartle, who is part of emergency medical services at London 2012, said he
hoped his skills would not need to be put to use.

"I am the insurance policy no-one wants to use, and I am praying for the next
week I sit on my bottom watching fantastic sport," he added.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday

Israeli ambassador to USA alters tweet blaming Iran for Sinai terror attack

LENGTH: 343 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 7 August

[Report by Ya'aqov Katz: "Envoy Oren's Iranian twitter conundrum"]

Early Monday morning, Israel's ambassador to the United States Michael Oren
tweeted the following: "Iranian backed terrorists again struck at our Southern
border today killing 15 Egyptian guards and attempting to massacre Israeli
civilians. Terrorists also shelled Israeli farms and towns along the border."

By the afternoon though, Oren took the tweet off his Twitter feed. Why? No
explanation was given although senior IDF officers said later in the day that
Iran did not play a role in the attack and was not a known supporter of the
known perpetrators.

Defence Minister Ehud Barak made this clear in his briefing to the Knesset's
Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee when he said that the attack was carried
out by a group somehow affiliated with al-Qaida. According to intelligence
obtained by the IDF, the attackers were global jihad-affiliated operatives -
mostly Bedouin residents of the Sinai Peninsula. What connects them, Israeli
intelligence believes, is a shared Salafi ideology.

The source of funding for the groups operating in the Sinai is unclear but is
understood to not come from Iran or Hizballah. By Monday evening, Oren tweeted
again, this time accusing "global jihad, a group closely affiliated with
Al-Qa'idah."

So what prompted Oren to immediately tweet that Iran was involved? Also unclear
although it might just be the general atmosphere in the Israeli government these
days. Another example of how Iran finds its way into Israel's other fronts even
when it is not connected was provided later in the day by Prime Minister
Binyamin Netanyahu who toured the scene of the attack and declared: "Israel can
only rely on itself... and will continue to do so", a statement he has made a
number of times in recent weeks in reference to his pending decision on a
possible strike against Iran's nuclear facilities.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 7 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday

THREE HELD OVER TERROR PLOT TO ATTACK GIBRALTAR'

BYLINE: BY DAILY MAIL REPORTER

LENGTH: 319 words


THREE Al Qaeda terror suspects held by Spanish police may have been planning an
attack on shoppers in Gibraltar during the Olympics, it emerged yesterday.

The two Chechen Russians and a Turkish engineer were arrested last week and
explosives seized in what was described as one of the biggest international
counter-terrorism operations of recent years.

Spanish security services believe the group may have been plotting an attack on
the Rock from the air using a remote-controlled plane.

Turk Cengiz Yalcin was arrested last Thursday at his flat in La Linea de la
Concepcion, the Spanish town which borders Gibraltar.

The Chechen Russians - Eldar Magomedov and Mohamed Ankari Adamov - were arrested
in the town of Ciudad Real, 125 miles south of Madrid, as they took a bus to
France.

Both men are said to have been trained in Al Qaeda camps in Pakistan and
Afghanistan. Spanish interior minister Jorge Fernandez Diaz said one used
enormous strength and military training' to resist arrest, and had to be
overpowered by special forces operatives.

At the National Court in Madrid, the trio were remanded in custody on suspicion
of belonging to a terrorist organisation and possessing explosives.

Police found the explosives at the home of Yalcin who is a paragliding and model
aircraft enthusiast. His paragliding instructor told the court Yalcin had
repeatedly asked about taking aerial photographs of Gibraltar shopping
districts.

Police are reported to have found a video of him flying a remote-controlled
aircraft dropping packages from the sky. He is also said to have paid for
paragliding lessons for the two Chechen Russians, who had been living in Spain
for at least two months.

Magomeodov is described as a former member of the Soviet Union's special forces
and an expert in making car bombs and carrying out attacks on trains and
underground systems. These are extremely dangerous people,' said Mr Diaz.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Tampa in lockdown - because the Republican convention is coming;
Protesters and terror attacks among the potential threats

BYLINE: DAVID USBORNE in Tampa, Florida

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 644 words


The Secret Service, the FBI and the local police forces are in the final highly
discreet phases of buttoning down the city of Tampa, Florida, ahead of the
Republican National Convention with protester violence and a possible attack by
terrorists topping their list of concerns.

Beyond the gaze of residents and downtown businesses, multiple steps are being
taken to ensure the gathering, which will see Mitt Romney accepted as his
party's presidential nominee, passes off without serious incident, whether that
be the spraying of policemen with human excrement by anarchists or the
detonation of a suicide bomb in the harbour. The arrangements are robbing people
like Ken Jones, the chief executive of the Tampa Host Committee, of a lot of
sleep. Partly it's just logistical challenges, like how to house the 16,000
journalists expected here for the week of 27 August - almost the same number
credentialled to cover the Olympics.

But security trumps all. It is why last Wednesday fork-lift driving federal
agents began to push floating booms threaded with steel cables into Tampa
Harbour for deployment across inlets and channels to block possible incursions
by small boats with bad intentions. That same afternoon, port officials huddled
to discuss stopping stockpiles of anhydrous ammonia in Tampa Port falling into
the wrong hands while elsewhere city leaders met with a Secret Service
convention task force to hear about potential threats to the safety of delegates
as well as response planning. The latter, one senior source confirmed
anonymously, includes the placement of missile launchers on buildings, as has
been the case for London.

"I don't envy them," said Greg Celestan, a retired Lt-Gen, who now runs an
overseas intelligence consulting firm, Celestar. Tampa, which is home both to US
Central Command and Special Operations Com-mand on MacDill Air Force Base inside
the city limits, would present a tempting target, he said.

The proximity of the convention venue, the Tampa Forum, to one of the harbour's
channels concerns Mr Jones more than anything else. "Imagine a big speedboat
barrelling up the channel packed with explosives at 60mph," he said gravely. "It
would be a horrible thing."

The Mayor of Tampa, Bob Buckhorn, a Democrat, is less concerned with boats
filled with dynamite than with protesters. And come they will, perhaps as many
as 10,000 of them, according to the city's own estimates. This is the age of
Occupy Wall Street and few politicians personify the "1 per cent" more neatly
than Mr Romney, who co-founded Bain Capital.

"We are in one of the worst recessions we have experienced," the Mayor said.
"There is a lot resent out there, a lot of discontent and the combustible nature
of these events has been fuelled by all of that."

To keep smashed windows and bloodied noses off our televisions screens he is
reinforcing his own police department with 3,000 additional officers from across
the state.

Meanwhile, protest groups, including Occupy, will be allowed to demonstrate
within sight of the Forum but only within fenced-off "viewing areas" or pens.

While Mr Buckhorn insists he wants to give "everyone with an alternative point
of view the opportunity to express it", he says he has to strike a balance
between free speech and preventing disorder.

The mere mention of the 1968 Democratic Convention in Chicago, where
anti-Vietnam protesters clashed with police for several days, makes him recoil.
"That will not happen. I am not going to give orders to shoot to kill, for
starters," he said, referring to the situation in 1968.

The city is, however, ready to incarcerate any unruly protesters in a facility
at the Orient Road Jail on the eastern outskirts of town. About 800 arrests were
made at the Republican Convention four years ago in St Paul, Minnesota. Tampa,
if necessary, will be able to process up to 1,700 people under arrest.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             August 7, 2012 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Police thwart air terror attack on Gibraltar

BYLINE: JULIUS CAVENDISH

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 161 words


Details of an audacious plot to attack a shopping mall in Gibraltar from the air
have begun to emerge following the arrest of three suspected al-Qa'ida
terrorists by Spanish police last week. Spanish security officials believe the
group planned to stage an attack on British soil during the Olympic Games,
maximising publicity for their assault.

Terrorism experts say the three men - a Turkish engineer and two Chechens - are
one of the most formidable al-Qa'ida cells apprehended. Police seized explosives
and equipment for three motorised paragliders at the home of Cengiz Yalcin, the
cell's Turkish facilitator, who had reportedly asked a paragliding instructor
for pictures of the shopping mall "whatever the cost".

Cell member Ahmad Avar, is a former member of Russia's special forces, skilled
in marksmanship and use of poisons. He and fellow Chechen Muhammad Adamov, an
explosives expert, fought alongside Pakistani militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba in
Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 7, 2012 Tuesday 8:23 AM GMT

World must 'never forget' Olympic Munich massacre, says David Cameron;
David Camerons says the world must "never forget" the terrorist attacks that
killed 11 Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympics, as he reaffirms Britain's
commitment to the Jewish state.

LENGTH: 144 words


Mr Cameron was speaking at a memorial event in London to mark the 40th
anniversary of massacre by Palestinian gunmen during the 1972 summer Olympics in
Germany.

He described it as a "sickening act of terrorism that betrayed everything the
Olympic movement stands for and everything that we in Britain believe in".

"It was a truly shocking act of evil," he said. "A crime against the Jewish
people. A crime against humanity. A crime the world must never forget.

He also said the world must remember the six Israeli holiday makers murdered by
a suicide bomber in Bulgaria just last month.

"Britain will always be a staunch friend of Israel," he said. "And we will stand
with the Jewish people - and with all victims of terror around the world,
whoever they are and wherever they are from."

The ceremony will also be attended by Nick Clegg, the deputy Prime Minister.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

Machete terror attack brothers are jailed

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS (BOLTON NEWS)

LENGTH: 319 words


TWO brothers have been each jailed for three-and-a-half years after they
attacked a man who owed them money with a machete.

Bolton Crown Court heard yesterday how Gareth and Sean Handley terrorised Ryan
Miller and his girlfriend, Sherilee Turnbull, in her Horwich home, striking Mr
Miller three times with a machete and tearing out a clump of Miss Turnbull's
hair.

David Clarke, prosecuting, told how Mr Miller bought £70 worth of cocaine from
Sean Handley in February but did not pay him.

Sean Handley began sending him texts demanding the money and then, in the early
hours of April 1, turned up at Miss Turnbull's home in Dickinson Street West,
Horwich, where she was watching television with Mr Miller and two friends.

Gareth, carrying a machete, Sean, carrying an axe, and their brother, Carl, let
themselves in through the unlocked kitchen door.

Sean Handley held up the axe in front of Mr Miller and demanded money before
Gareth Handley shoved him out of the way and attacked him with the machete. He
cut his 25-year-old victim's palm, forearm and head and Sean Handley joined in
the attack, repeatedly punching Mr Miller in the face.

When Miss Turnbull tried to intervene, Gareth Handley threw her to the floor and
grabbed her by the hair, tearing out a clump.

The court heard that Mr Miller's injuries were superficial and did not require
hospital treatment.

Gareth Handley, aged 33, of Sycamore Walk, Horwich, pleaded guilty to two counts
of assault causing actual bodily harm and Sean Handley, aged 31, of Beatrice
Mews, Horwich pleaded guilty to blackmail, assault causing actual bodily harm,
affray and possessing an offensive weapon in a public place.

Sentencing the two brothers to three and a half years each in jail, Judge
Charles Bloom, QC, said their victims had undergone a frightening ordeal.

"They must have been terrified when they saw you come into their house with
these wicked looking weapons," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

KNIFEMAN IN TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: SOPHIE DOUGHTY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 35 words


ARMED robbers stole cash from a Tyneside bookies in a terrifying knife-point
raid.

The masked men's attack is the third almost identical robbery on bookmakers in
the region in just seven days. »Full Story - Page 4

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2012 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     August 8, 2012 Wednesday 12:01 AM GMT

Rogge endures uncomfortable evening over Munich;
Ankie Spitzer, widow of one of the Israel athletes killed by terrorists at the
1972 Games, leads attack on IOC president

BYLINE: Alexandra FreanPhilip WillanMartin RobertsHugh TomlinsonLucy
AlexanderFrancis ElliottWill PaviaandRoger Boyes , , , , , ,

SECTION: OLYMPICS

LENGTH: 1908 words


Israel

Roger Boyes, Diplomatic Editor

The widow of one of the Israel athletes killed by terrorists at the 1972 Munich
Games has led a blazing attack on Jacques Rogge, the president of the IOC, as he
was sitting uncomfortably through a London memorial service.

Ankie Spitzer, addressing an audience of senior British and Israeli politicians,
blamed the IOC for blocking an Israeli request to hold a minute of silence at
the opening ceremony for the 11 sportsmen and coaches murdered in Munich.

"Only the IOC remains deaf and blind," she said turning from the podium at the
Guildhall, London, to face Rogge.

"Is the IOC only interested in power, money and politics? Our loved ones came
back in coffins yet they were part of the Olympic family . . ."

Members of the audience started to shout "Shame!" and Spitzer, whose husband,
Andre, was the Israel fencing coach and a referee, took up the call. "Shame on
you IOC because you have forgotten 11 members of the Olympic family," she said.
"You're discriminating against them only because they are Israelis and Jews."

Rogge, who had earlier delivered a short, mild-mannered speech deploring
terrorism, must have known that the event on Monday evening was not going to be
an easy moment for him.

Limor Livnat, the Israeli Minister of Culture and Sport, hit out not only at the
IOC - "silence in the face of evil affords evil victory" - but also embarrassed
Guido Westerwelle, the German Foreign Minister, by claiming that German
neo-Nazis were accomplices to the Palestinian Black September terror group in
the Munich attack.

Mick Davis, the chief executive of Xstrata, the Anglo-Swiss mining company who
is chairman of the United Israel Appeal, said: "We say to the IOC that to be
silent is to be complicit."

Although other speeches - notably those of David Cameron and Nick Clegg -
sidestepped the thorny issue of the minute of silence, Rogge was left in no
doubt that the campaign would roll on into the Rio de Janeiro Olympics.

"We will come back until we hear the words you need to say because you owe
them," Spitzer said. The murdered sportsmen and coaches, she added, had to be
honoured: "Not here in this beautiful Guildhall, not in the Hilton Hotel in
Beijing, not in the backyard of our ambassador in Athens, but within the Olympic
framework."

There was a standing ovation for Spitzer, at least in the main body of the
Guildhall. Rogge, a yachting Olympian in 1972, stayed in his seat.

Israel has organised a commemoration on the fringes of Olympic Games since 2000
and Rogge has taken part since the Athens Games in 2004. But Israel sees the
massacre as a critical part of its national narrative and argues that the memory
of the attack is being quietly brushed out by the Olympic authorities.

The gathering pace of international support for an "Olympic Minute of Silence" -
the Obama Administration and the Senate has come out in favour, as has the
German parliament - is putting pressure on the IOC. Rogge held a surprise
tribute in the Olympic Village before the opening ceremony. And his speech at
the Guildhall went farther than usual. "We are all here today because we share a
duty to those innocent victims and to history to make sure the lessons of 1972
are never forgotten," he said.

But Israel and the athletes' families want more. "They were killed on Olympic
soil and the appropriate place to remember them is at the opening ceremony,"
said Ilana Romano, whose husband, Yossef, a weightlifter, died.

United Utates

Alexandra Frean, Washington

The battle between the United States and China for the most Olympic medals may
not be settled until the closing events of the Games, but for some it is being
watched as closely as the individual events.

"While this new rivalry will never reach the heights of the US-Soviet Union
during the Cold War, Beijing and Washington will be sparring for Olympic
supremacy for years to come," Robert D. Cobb noted on the sports blog,
RantSports.com.

He added that the rivalry between the two superpowers was more than just about
medals. "It's a classic clash of East versus West, capitalism against communism
and the world's reigning superpower in the United States against the world's
largest economic monolith in China," he wrote.

The US Olympic Committee has said that its goal is to finish top of the medal
count but has not specified its target number of medals. While China led 64-63
before yesterday's action, the US has plenty of opportunities to pull ahead in a
second week dominated by athletics, in which they are traditionally stronger
than China.

Most of the American media usually goes with the total medal count, not the
number of golds, as determining the overall winners. On this basis, the US have
won the medal count at each of the last four Summer Olympics. In Beijing,
China's 51 gold medals outshone the 36 won by the US, but the US won 110 medals
in total, ten more than China.

Italy

The drug shame of Alex Schwazer, the 50-kilometres walk champion, overshadowed
the joy of a further three Olympic medals in the country's press yesterday
(Philip Willan, in Rome, writes).

Schwazer was a gold medal-winner at the Olympic Games in Beijing, the boyfriend
of Carolina Kostner, the glamorous world champion figure skater and the man
whose clean-cut features were chosen to promote wholesome children's snacks on
television.

Il Messaggero, the Rome daily, headlined its comment on the news that Schwazer
had been banned from participating in the Games for using the illegal
blood-booster erythropoietin (EPO) with the words "Betrayed by the good guy". As
well as consuming healthy milk in the ads, he was also taking EPO, "Which is a
lot less good for your health," the paper said.

Milan's Corriere della Sera blamed the scandal on Schwazer's inability to accept
his limitations and the effects of the passage of time on his performance. "We
may win lots more medals, but unfortunately the Schwazer case will remain like a
scarlet letter on the Italian expedition to London 2012," it said.

Argentina

Newspapers lauded the performance of the country's basketball team against a
United States "Dream Team" of top professionals who are hot favourites to secure
the Olympic gold medal (Martin Roberts writes).

Argentina, who beat the US and went on to win a shock Olympic gold in 2004,
moved to within a point of the Americans at the interval, but lost the
group-stage match 126-97 in an ill-tempered affair on Monday. "The team went out
to have fun and put on a memorable show in those 20 minutes against a United
States team that wavered . . . and even sank to some dirty tricks," Clarín, the
daily newspaper, said.

The Argentina team, it said, were backed by chanting fans whose support riled
the US. Of the US comeback, Luis Scola, the Argentina player, said: "It's very
hard to beat the United States if they put 60 points past you in one period, and
impossible to go to 120 points with them."

Saudi Arabia

The father of Wodjan Shahrkhani, Saudi Arabia's first female Olympian, has taken
legal action against Twitter "trolls" who insulted his daughter for taking part
in the Games (Hugh Tomlinson writes).

Despite being defeated in only 1min 22sec in her first-round judo match,
Shahrkhani, 16, was given a standing ovation after becoming the first woman to
compete at the Olympics for the ultra-conservative kingdom. However, her
participation at the Games, along with compatriot Sarah Attar, the 800 metres
runner, has ignited a row on Twitter. The two women were denounced as
"prostitutes" by conservatives at home.

Ali Seraj Shahrkhani defended his daughter yesterday, telling the Saudi
newspaper Al-Sharq that he has made a formal complaint to the Saudi Government
about the abuse and hired a lawyer to sue the Twitter users who insulted her.

Japan

Before Saturday, Japan were one place above Britain in the medals table. Now
they are languishing in nineteenth place, although they would be fifth on total
medals won (Lucy Alexander, in Tokyo, writes).

But The Japan Times could not help but become sentimental at the sight of
"hundreds of British flags proudly waving through the gentle night breeze",
before describing in syrupy tones the "stirring moment" shared by Jessica Ennis
and "Lord Sebastian Coe" as he presented her medal: "No words needed to be
uttered between them, they understood they were sharing history . . ."

The Japan football teams have kept interest alive well into the second week. The
men's team have amazed the public by reaching their first semi-final since 1968
and briefly led Mexico in yesterday's match before losing 3-1.

The women are already guaranteed silver and an upgrade to business class on the
flight home.

India

Saina Nehwal, the pride of India after she won a badminton bronze medal,
returned to her native Hyderabad to celebrate her achievement (Francis Elliott,
in Delhi, writes).

However, the bus sent to fetch her from the airport for a victory tour broke
down shortly after picking her up yesterday. The bus, decked in the Indian
tricolour, was unable to cope with the number of wellwishers who had climbed
aboard, some on to the roof, and broke down before leaving the airport.
Undaunted, Nehwal continued the tour first on foot and then by car.

Previously, on arrival in Delhi from London, she told waiting reporters that she
had cried for an hour after losing her semi-final but had been determined to
redeem herself in the run-off for third place against Xin Wang, the Chinese who
pulled out of the game with an injury.

Grenada

Residents of a fishing village on this small Caribbean island were preparing for
a giant party yesterday in honour of the gangly teenager who has won Grenada's
first Olympic gold (Will Pavia writes).

Kirani James's victory in the men's 400 metres prompted wild celebrations. "It
was pandemonium," George Grant, 60, a local radio presenter, said. "Everybody
started honking their horns, people took to the streets, parties started. It
still hasn't subsided."

Tillman Thomas, the island's Prime Minister, had been among the crowds who
gathered before a big screen at Cuthbert Peters Park in James's home village of
Gouyave to watch the race. "There was a street carnival afterwards," said Laurie
Glean, 59, proprietor of Kelly's Hot Spot, a local restaurant. "They went past
midnight last night, they had DJs and bands in the streets".

Yesterday a public holiday was declared and more street parties were being
planned.

Spain

Walter Oppenheimer, of El País, writes about the Olympic Park: "There are two
types of building that have nothing to do with the official schedule, but in
front of which hundreds form queues. The one outside the London 2012 souvenir
shop is miles long. A fetishist knows an item picked up in the West End is not
the same as one bought on the Olympic premises.

"But perhaps the most eye-catching queues are outside McDonald's. They dish up
the same junk food as any other McDonald's, but what those queueing really want
is to be able to say they have been to the world's biggest."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 9, 2012 Thursday

Human right's network, Hezbollah condemn "terrorist" attack on Syrian TV

LENGTH: 258 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Terrorist Attack on TV" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - The Syrian Network for Monitoring the Human Rights in Syria
condemned the terrorist attack which hit the TV & Radio Centre in Damascus,
considering that this act comes within the framework of instigation and
conspiring against the Syrian people.

"The act is one of the most dangerous violations of the freedom of media and
expression, it is a flagrant violation of the human rights' principles.. what
Syria encounters, particularly media, is part of the comprehensive war against
the State and people who just want to live in peace, "the Syrian Network said in
a statement Monday.

It added that this act is a clear indication to the weakness of the
international community and the human rights' organization and those who claim
that they are advocators for the human rights.

Hezbollah condemns terrorist attack on TV & radio building

Lebanese Hezbollah on Monday strongly condemned the terrorist attack on the TV &
Radio building in Damascus.

"The systemized attacks on media come in an attempt to strike the national
voices and to leave an area for the misleading media which seeks to instigate
sedition and spread rumours as well as creating atmospheres of division in the
country," the Media Relations at Hezbollah said in statement.

The statement added that this attack is a new flagrant violation on the freedom
of press and on international norms and laws.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 6 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 9, 2012 Thursday 1:42 PM GMT

How giving birth could leave one in three new mothers with same symptoms as
victims of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 439 words



     ·    Symptoms include flashbacks and a rapid heart beat when reliving the
          event


Women are not exaggerating when they say they go through hell when giving birth
- one in three new mothers will develop Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, a new
study claims.

The condition is normally associated with soldiers returning from a war to those
involved in horrific accidents or disasters.

The authors of the university report admit it is controversial to compare the
experience of childbirth with the awful reality of a terrorist atrocity or
fighting a war.

But they claim around one third of all women show some symptoms of PTSD after
giving birth with a small minority developing the full blown version of the
condition.

This is unusual, too, because PTSD usually happens to those who are not
expecting to find themselves in a traumatic situation, such as those caught up
in a bomb blast for instance.

New mothers are long prepared for what might happen, they have usually made the
choice to become pregnant and they know there will be discomfort and pain.

Yet they still suffer trauma, even after a successful birth, said Tel Aviv
medical experts tracking the progress of 90 new mothers aged between 20 and 40
from just after delivery to a month later.

One in three (33.7 per cent) suffered PTSD symptoms of whom around eight per
cent displayed very minor symptoms but 3.4 developed full blown PTSD.

Of those who suffered any symptoms, 80 per cent had opted for natural childbirth
without pain relief.

Symptoms include flashbacks, the heart beating faster when discussing the
experience or simply not wanting to talk about the experience at all.

For women, it can also lead to some not wanting another child as a result of
their post-traumatic stress.

But it is not just the pain that brings on stress and trauma, said the doctors
for the Israel Medical Association Journal.

The doctors found women got stressed about their undressed state during labour,
the fear of something going wrong and, in some cases, bad experiences from
previous pregnancies.

The study reported: 'The debate over whether or not childbirth qualifies as a
'traumatic event' is still controversial.

'Although childbirth is not a sudden and unexpected event like an accident, it
is accompanied by a very real and justified fear of danger.

'Expectant mothers worry for not just their own safety but also for the health
and well-being of their babies.'

The medical researchers hope the results will lead to doctors and other
professionals preparing women better for the experience.

This includes covering their bodies property during delivery and counselling
them more efficiently about pain relief.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 9, 2012 Thursday

Masked thugs in terror axe attack on pub manager

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 330 words


MASKED robbers held an axe to a mum's mouth in a terrifying pub raid.

Staff were locking up the Waggon and Horses in Stalybridge when two
balaclava-clad thugs burst through the door wielding weapons.

One grabbed the manager, pushed an axe to her face so close it touched her teeth
and screamed at her to hand over the pub takings. The second pinned down the
pub's chef with a crowbar. They then forced staff to empty the safe and fled.

The horrific attack has now left manager Lisa Ashworth scared to do her job.

Mum-of-one Lisa, 26, who has worked at the Mottram Road pub for seven years,
said: I was absolutely terrified. All I kept thinking was I'm never going to get
home and see my little girl.

I would have given whatever they wanted, I just wanted to get out. It's affected
my job because I just don't want to do it any more. Everything's just different.

The raid happened at about 1.10am on Sunday, July 7.

After forcing Lisa and two colleagues into the pub's office, the robbers emptied
her handbag and forced her to open the safe and fill it with cash.

They fled towards Matley Lane in Hyde.

Lisa added: It makes you feel sick that you can work so hard and they can just
walk in and take it.

Det Con Simon Cropper of Tameside CID said: The level of intimidation and threat
involved in this awful crime went well beyond what was necessary to steal some
cash. This will be moment that will no doubt live with her forever but I am
confident that, with the right support around her, she will be able to move on
from this.

We are doing everything in our power to catch these robbers and I am sure there
are people out there who can help us.

The two men are described as being in their late 20s or early 30s, with local
accents and dark hooded tops.

One was white, wore a cap beneath his top and brandished an orange-handled axe.
The second carried a crowbar.

Anyone with information should phone police on 0161 856 9263 or the independent
charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORRIFIC CCTVshows the two raiders, armed with an axe and crowbar,
bursting into the Waggon and Horses

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 9, 2012 Thursday

Masked thugs in terror axe attack on pub manager

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 330 words


MASKED robbers held an axe to a mum's mouth in a terrifying pub raid.

Staff were locking up the Waggon and Horses in Stalybridge when two
balaclava-clad thugs burst through the door wielding weapons.

One grabbed the manager, pushed an axe to her face so close it touched her teeth
and screamed at her to hand over the pub takings. The second pinned down the
pub's chef with a crowbar. They then forced staff to empty the safe and fled.

The horrific attack has now left manager Lisa Ashworth scared to do her job.

Mum-of-one Lisa, 26, who has worked at the Mottram Road pub for seven years,
said: I was absolutely terrified. All I kept thinking was I'm never going to get
home and see my little girl.

I would have given whatever they wanted, I just wanted to get out. It's affected
my job because I just don't want to do it any more. Everything's just different.

The raid happened at about 1.10am on Sunday, July 7.

After forcing Lisa and two colleagues into the pub's office, the robbers emptied
her handbag and forced her to open the safe and fill it with cash.

They fled towards Matley Lane in Hyde.

Lisa added: It makes you feel sick that you can work so hard and they can just
walk in and take it.

Det Con Simon Cropper of Tameside CID said: The level of intimidation and threat
involved in this awful crime went well beyond what was necessary to steal some
cash. This will be moment that will no doubt live with her forever but I am
confident that, with the right support around her, she will be able to move on
from this.

We are doing everything in our power to catch these robbers and I am sure there
are people out there who can help us.

The two men are described as being in their late 20s or early 30s, with local
accents and dark hooded tops.

One was white, wore a cap beneath his top and brandished an orange-handled axe.
The second carried a crowbar.

Anyone with information should phone police on 0161 856 9263 or the independent
charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORRIFIC CCTVshows the two raiders, armed with an axe and crowbar,
bursting into the Waggon and Horses

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 9, 2012 Thursday

Masked thugs in terror axe attack on pub manager

BYLINE: WFnode

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 330 words


MASKED robbers held an axe to a mum's mouth in a terrifying pub raid.

Staff were locking up the Waggon and Horses in Stalybridge when two
balaclava-clad thugs burst through the door wielding weapons.

One grabbed the manager, pushed an axe to her face so close it touched her teeth
and screamed at her to hand over the pub takings. The second pinned down the
pub's chef with a crowbar. They then forced staff to empty the safe and fled.

The horrific attack has now left manager Lisa Ashworth scared to do her job.

Mum-of-one Lisa, 26, who has worked at the Mottram Road pub for seven years,
said: I was absolutely terrified. All I kept thinking was I'm never going to get
home and see my little girl.

I would have given whatever they wanted, I just wanted to get out. It's affected
my job because I just don't want to do it any more. Everything's just different.

The raid happened at about 1.10am on Sunday, July 7.

After forcing Lisa and two colleagues into the pub's office, the robbers emptied
her handbag and forced her to open the safe and fill it with cash.

They fled towards Matley Lane in Hyde.

Lisa added: It makes you feel sick that you can work so hard and they can just
walk in and take it.

Det Con Simon Cropper of Tameside CID said: The level of intimidation and threat
involved in this awful crime went well beyond what was necessary to steal some
cash. This will be moment that will no doubt live with her forever but I am
confident that, with the right support around her, she will be able to move on
from this.

We are doing everything in our power to catch these robbers and I am sure there
are people out there who can help us.

The two men are described as being in their late 20s or early 30s, with local
accents and dark hooded tops.

One was white, wore a cap beneath his top and brandished an orange-handled axe.
The second carried a crowbar.

Anyone with information should phone police on 0161 856 9263 or the independent
charity Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORRIFIC CCTVshows the two raiders, armed with an axe and crowbar,
bursting into the Waggon and Horses

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 10, 2012 Friday

Mumbai terror-attacks convict identifies held militant as "trainer"

LENGTH: 331 words


Text of report headlined "Kasab identifies Jundal as trainer" published by
Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 10 August

Mumbai: Ajmal Amir Kasab, the only 26/11 terrorist taken alive, on Thursday [9
August] recognized Zabiuddin Ansari, alias Abu Jundal, as being his trainer and
one of the players in the 2008 attacks in Mumbai that left over 150 people dead,
including policemen.

Kasab and Jundal were brought face to face with each other at a special lockup
at the Mumbai crime branch headquarters after the state home department granted
the crime branch permission to do so.

"Kasab recognized Jundal by his alias, and said that this was the same man who
had trained all the 10 terrorists in Hindi. Jundal was also the one who
accompanied them to Pakistani shores, from where they embarked on their mission.
Kasab further said that he was under the impression that Jundal was an Indian,"
said a senior crime branch officer. The two-Ajmal Amir Kasab and Abu Jundal-were
brought face to face and interrogated between 6 pm [1230 gmt] and 7.30 pm on
Thursday.

Earlier on Thursday the home department granted the crime branch permission to
interrogate Ajmal Kasab based on the revelations and claims made by Abu Jundal.

Crime branch has custody of Jundal till 13 August. "Based on Kasab's
revelations, the crime branch will press for further custody of Jundal," the
source said.

According to crime branch sources, Jundal has also admitted having taught the
Hindi language to 10 terrorists before they carried out the 26/11 terror raids.
Jundal has told interrogators that along with the top LeT commanders, he too had
seen off the 10 operatives from the Pakistani shore.

"The confrontation was necessary to strengthen our case against Jundal and to
corroborate claims he made during interrogation," said the source.

Jundal has also said he had met American Lashkar-i-Toiba operative David
Headley, a co-accused in the 26/11 attacks.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 10 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 10, 2012 Friday

Kyrgyzstan-based US air base denies terror attack allegations

LENGTH: 160 words


Text of report by privately-owned online news agency Kyrgyz Telegraph Agency
(KyrTAg)

Bishkek, 10 August: The Transit Centre at Manas [Airport] has denied rumours
that there was allegedly a terrorist attack in the area of the air base on 8
August.

"The information about a terrorist attack that allegedly happened at the Transit
Centre at Manas is an unfounded and groundless rumour," the press-service of the
Transit Centre told KyrTAg today.

The press-service also said that under a plan, monthly exercises designed to
maintain the readiness of the personnel to emergencies had been held at the
Transit Centre.

Some media outlets reported, quoting foreign sources that there was an attempted
terrorist attack (according to some sources, there was a terrorist attack) in
the area of the US air base in Bishkek on 8 August. Foreign sources even
reported about alleged casualties on the part of the Transit Centre.

Source: KyrTAg, Bishkek, in Russian 1256 gmt 10 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 10, 2012 Friday

Indian agencies suspect Indian Mujahideen's role in Mumbai terror attacks

LENGTH: 388 words


Text of report by Rajnish Sharma headlined "Did IM [Indian Mujahideen] men aid
26/11 attackers?" published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 10
August

New Delhi: Dreaded Lashkar-i-Toiba terrorist Abu Jundal may not be the only
Indian to have helped the militants involved in the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks.

Significantly, it is now believed that there is an Indian Mujahideen link to the
Mumbai carnage as well. Jundal, during his custodial interrogation, has revealed
that at least two Indian operatives of the Indian Mujahideen had helped train
the module involved in the Mumbai attack.

Highly-placed intelligence sources said Jundal claimed that he happened to meet
two Indian Mujahideen militants at a Lashkar training camp in Pakistan-occupied
Kashmir [Pakistan-administered Kashmir].

Sources said Jundal claims that he did not get an opportunity to interact much
with them as he had been instructed by the Lashkar leadership not to do so.
"Normally these terror outfits operate in a very secretive manner and don't
prefer one terror module interacting or mixing with the other. They prefer
working in watertight compartments," a senior intelligence official involved in
Jundal's interrogation remarked.

Significantly, Jundal has admitted that from the information he could gather
from the Indian Mujahideen duo it was clear that they were helping the 26/11
terror module with the logistics, key locations and some local contacts in
Mumbai.

These revelations, sources said, have forced intelligence agencies to believe
that the terror module that attacked Mumbai had support within the city itself.

Intelligence agencies along with the Maharahstra ATS [Anti-Terror Squad] and the
Mumbai crime branch are now further investigating this aspect of the case.

Since Jundal has expressed his inability to provide more details about the IM
terrorists, given his limited exposure to them, the interrogating teams have
shown him photographs of top Indian Mujahideen operatives to help ascertain who
exactly the duo are.

Though top intelligence officials are extremely tight-lipped about this matter,
sources claim that the Indian Mujahideen men could well be the Bhatkal brothers,
Riaz and Iqbal, who at that time were said to be undergoing training themselves
in Pakistan.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 10 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 10, 2012 Friday 1:22 AM GMT

Why having a baby's like being a in a terror attack: One in three mothers
'suffers post-traumatic stress'

BYLINE: TAMARA COHEN

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 352 words



     ·    Symptoms include flashbacks and a rapid heart beat when reliving the
          event


One in three women who have just given birth may experience signs of
post-traumatic stress disorder, a condition usually associated with war and
terrorist attacks.

Research suggests tens of thousands may be affected.

Symptoms include flashbacks to the labour, avoiding any discussion of the event
or having physical reactions such as heart palpitations when it is mentioned,
and reluctance to consider having another child.

Scientists in Israel who  conducted the research said classifying childbirth as
a cause of PTSD is controversial, but they believe it is 'indisputable', as it
can trigger 'intense fear, helplessness or horror'.

PTSD is defined as the result of 'experiencing, witnessing or confronting an
event or events that involve actual or threatened death or serious injury, or a
threat to the physical integrity of oneself or others'.

The scientists interviewed 89 women after delivery, of whom 80 per cent had
given birth without any pain relief. Of those  surveyed, 3.4 per cent of the
women experienced full-blown PTSD, 7.8 per cent had 'nearly complete' cases and
25.9 per cent displayed 'significant' symptoms for at least a month, the study
found.

The main cause was pain, but also fear of serious or fatal complications for
themselves or the child. It was often associated with a traumatic previous
delivery.

Professor Rael Strous of Tel Aviv University said the discomfort of being
undressed for a long period during labour had a surprisingly strong effect,
mentioned by four out of five women affected.

The authors added in the Israel Medical Association Journal: 'These high
percentages indicate a population at risk and the importance of early detection,
diagnosis and management if necessary.

'Dignity is a factor that should be taken into account.'

Lucy Jolin of the Birth Trauma Association said they believe around 10,000 women
in the UK alone develop full-blown PTSD following childbirth and a further
200,000 may develop some of the symptoms.

She said: 'PTSD can stay with you all your life and have huge repercussions.'

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             August 10, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Childbirth 'like a terrorist attack'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 80 words


MOTHERS who have given birth suffer the same symptoms as victims of terrorist
attacks, research shows. A third of women develop post traumatic stress
disorder, which is normally associated with people involved in disasters and
soldiers returning from a war. Symptoms include flashbacks, a racing heartbeat
when discussing the experience, or simply not wanting to talk about it at all.
They still suffer trauma even after a successful birth, showed the Israeli study
of 90 new mothers.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                      August 10, 2012 Friday 6:48 PM  EST

UK CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK IN TURKEY

LENGTH: 120 words


LONDON, Aug. 10 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

"The British Government stands steadfast with Turkey in its fight against
terrorism."

In response to the terrorist attack on 9 August on Turkish armed forces
personnel in Western Turkey, an FCO spokesperson said:

"We condemn the attack on Turkish armed forces personnel. Our condolences go out
to the families of the victims and we wish those injured a speedy recovery.

The British Government stands steadfast with Turkey in its fight against
terrorism and condemns the perpetrators of this most recent atrocity." For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2012 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                      August 10, 2012 Friday 5:56 PM  EST

HAVING BABY LIKE 'BEING IN TERROR ATTACK'

LENGTH: 1380 words


LONDON, Aug. 10 -- National Health Service issued the following health news:

The Daily Mail tells us one in three mothers has post-traumatic stress disorder
after having a baby, and says "having a baby's like being in a terror attack".

The unnecessarily alarmist headlines follow a study of just 89 women in Israel
who completed a survey in the month after giving birth. In fact, only three
women (3.4%) reported full-blown post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) at one
month after birth.

Around one in four women (25.9%) had some symptoms but were not considered to
have PTSD.

These symptomatic women were more likely to report having had a previous
'traumatic' birth, and to have had pregnancy problems or fears about birth.

The researchers did find that having a Caesarean section or assisted delivery
(for example using forceps) was not associated with symptoms of PTSD.

Overall, little can be concluded from this very small survey of women from
Israel, a country that may have different maternity care compared with the UK.

A much larger study of women from the UK is needed to assess how common PTSD
following birth is in this country, and to see what factors may be associated
with it. This will help to ensure that all women who experience emotional or
psychological distress during pregnancy or following birth receive the full care
and support that they need.

WHERE DID THE STORY COME FROM?

The study was carried out by researchers from Beer Yaakov Mental Health Center,
and other medical centres in Israel. No sources of funding are reported.

The study was published in the Israel Medical Association Journal (IMAJ).

News reporting of this study is alarmist, unhelpful and unnecessary, considering
its extremely small sample size and uncertain relevance to UK obstetric care and
outcomes. There is certainly no firm evidence to equate 'having a baby' with
experiencing a 'terror attack'.

WHAT KIND OF RESEARCH WAS THIS?

This was a survey of 89 women in Israel who were given a questionnaire to
complete immediately after birth, and one month after. The questionnaire
included the Post-traumatic Stress Diagnostic Scale (PDS), which the authors say
is a self-administered questionnaire designed to aid in the diagnosis of PTSD
according to diagnostic criteria. However, even if this is a valid measure, a
sample of only 89 women is too small on which to base any firm conclusions. A
sample of a different 90-100 women could have given completely different
results.

Studies assessing the prevalence of a condition among a certain population
should ideally assess large numbers of people who are representative of the
whole population from which the sample came. Given that pregnancy and birth are
extremely common events in society, it would not be difficult to assess a much
larger sample than 89 women.

Since the UK may have different antenatal, maternity and postnatal care from
Israel, this survey has uncertain relevance to our society. Also, some of the
mothers with PTSD symptoms reported feeling very uncomfortable being in a state
of undress, and this contributed towards feelings of trauma. As Israel tends to
have a more socially conservative culture than the UK, the same factors may not
be as significant for UK women.

WHAT DID THE RESEARCH INVOLVE?

The researchers invited 102 women to their study who were staying in a hospital
maternity ward after giving birth. All women were said to be eligible and there
had been no restrictions to inclusion, though the study does not say how many
women were originally considered for inclusion. A third of the sample were
having their first baby, their average age was 32 and 85% were married.

These 102 women were given a questionnaire that was said to include psychosocial
and demographic variables, a relationship questionnaire and the International
Personality Disorder Examination personality questionnaire. One month later
women were asked to complete another questionnaire that was said to have
included an inventory exploring mental state after delivery as well as the
Post-traumatic Stress Diagnostic Scale. Only 89 of the original 102 sample
completed the one-month survey assessing PTSD.

The researchers assessed prevalence of:

* PTSD (full diagnostic criteria met).

* partial PTSD (one or two symptoms lacking).

* PTSD symptoms that did not meet diagnostic criteria.

They also looked at any factors that were associated with these conditions.

WHAT WERE THE BASIC RESULTS?

Three women (3.4%) met full diagnostic criteria for PTSD.

A further 23 women (25.9%) had symptoms of PTSD but did not meet diagnostic
criteria. Among these were:

* seven women who had partial PTSD and only lacked one or two symptoms.

* seven women who had partial PTSD and some functional impairment.

* seven women who met symptomatic criteria but did not have functional
impairment.

* two women who met criteria for PTSD but their symptoms did not last for one
month.

A significant flaw with the reporting of these results is that the researchers
did not provide more information about exactly how they define terms such as
functional impairment.

No relationship was found between the development of PTSD symptoms and
demographic data (including level of education), or with assisted or Caesarean
delivery.

Women who had PTSD symptoms were more likely to report a previous traumatic
birth (including subsequent depression and anxiety), medical or psychological
problems during pregnancy, or fears about birth. PTSD symptoms were also
associated with experiencing more discomfort at being undressed, stronger
feelings of danger and not wanting to have additional children.

HOW DID THE RESEARCHERS INTERPRET THE RESULTS?

The authors conclude that there is a 3.4% prevalence of PTSD following birth
among women in Israel. They say that the results "indicate the importance of
inquiring about previous pregnancy and birthing experiences and the need to
identify at-risk populations... addressing anticipatory concerns of pain prior
to delivery as well as respecting dignity and minimizing the undressed state
during childbirth".

CONCLUSION

The results of this study are primarily of relevance to Israel and suggest that
3.4% of women experience PTSD after birth. However, the reliability of this
estimate is limited by the extremely small sample size. Though 102 women
originally agreed to participate, it is uncertain how many women were originally
asked, and it could be that those women who agreed to participate did so because
they were experiencing more emotional problems associated with birth. A sample
of a different 90-100 women could have given completely different results.
Studies assessing the prevalence of a condition among a certain population
should ideally assess large numbers to get a better idea of what the true
prevalence is. Given that pregnancy and birth are extremely common events in
society, it should not be difficult to assess thousands of women, rather than a
small sample of 89. A much larger study would have given a more reliable
estimate of prevalence.

Furthermore, prevalence studies are only relevant to the population that they
are representative of. Given that the UK may have different antenatal, maternity
and postnatal care from Israel, this study has uncertain relevance to our
country. Also, culture and society may be quite different in Israel. In this
study PTSD symptoms were associated with factors such as distress at being
undressed, or not wanting to have any more children. Sources of distress for
women in Western society may not be identical to those in these women.

Overall, little can be concluded from this survey of an extremely small sample
of women from Israel, a country that may have quite different obstetric care
compared with the UK. A large study of women from the UK with clinically
confirmed diagnosis of PTSD would be needed to assess how prevalent the
condition is following birth in this country. Such a study may be able to show
what factors are associated with the illness. This could help to ensure that
women who experience significant emotional or psychological distress during
pregnancy or following birth receive effective care and support for this serious
condition. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2012 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 11, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Search for sex attacker terrorising French campsites

BYLINE: Devorah Lauter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 464 words


A MANHUNT has been launched in one of southern France's most popular tourist
areas after an 11-year-old girl was raped in her tent, the latest in a number of
similar attacks in campsites in the region.

More than 50 French security officers are involved in the search for the
attacker, who struck as the girl slept a few yards from her parents' tent in the
early hours of Wednesday in Saint-Didier-sous-Aubena in the ArdÈche region.

The man, believed to be in his forties, fled after the victim and her friend,
who was also in the tent, began screaming. The girl was taken to hospital where
staff "were able to verify there had been a sexual aggression", said Franck
Alzingre, a public prosecutor in the town of Privas.

The two girls helped to compile a photofit of the suspect. It has been released
to police, but not to the public to avoid causing alarm among holidaymakers.

Wednesday's incident happened after reports of at least four other rapes and
attempted rapes in campsites in the region over the past six weeks.

Victims were reportedly all under 13 and of French nationality, except for one
Dutch girl.

Police investigating Wednesday's incident are examining whether the suspect
posed as a tourist to get into the site.

Mr Alzingre noted there had been other attacks, but said there no suggestion
that they were carried out by the perpetrator of the latest attack. "Of course,
we are not dismissing any leads," said Mr Alzingre.

He said there had been "no other confirmation of sexual attacks" in the other
incidents. Authorities called on witnesses to contact police if they had
information about the attacks.

One camper, named Krystal, speaking to the newspaper Le Parisien, said: "I told
myself it was dangerous for the children. At night when our teenage girls went
out, I made sure they weren't alone."

Another mother on holiday in the area with her children said: "Once you learn
about what happened right in the middle of a campsite with lots of people all
around, you just become paranoid."

An employee at campsite near the town of Vogüé said visitors are asked to wear a
bracelet that identified them as paying guests. "I tell people to be careful, to
watch their children," she told Le Parisien.

"We have to reassure people. Every time a person comes to our campsite I tell
them that there have been some problems."

Campsites in the area are taking extra security measures, with increased numbers
of night guards and patrols. At the Cros d'Auzon campsite, Frederic Pascal, the
site's manger, said: "We haven't been told to do anything in particular, and
have had no warning from authorities."

He said the site was under a "constant, 100 per cent safety watch" and employed
extra security staff every summer. "We always hear about all kinds of things
happening in the summer," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tourists relax by the ArdÈche river. Police are searching for a man
believed to be in his 40s after a series of attacks on girls at campsites in the
area. Above and top, the Le Chantalou campsite where one attack took place
ALAMY/ AFP/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                            August 11, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FAMILY'S AFRICAN GUNMAN TERROR;
Mum relives horrifying jungle attack

BYLINE: SOPHIE DOUGHTY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 70 words


A MUM today relived the terrifying moment African gunmen threatened to slaughter
her children.

Sandy Gentili and her family were on holiday when the crazed Cameroonian
attackers burst into their hotel room in the middle of the night and held them
hostage.

The mum-of-three told how they pointed a sawn-off shotgun in the face of her
daughter Isabella, seven, pictured with her, and threatened to shoot.

»Full Story - Pages 2 & 3

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2012 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 11, 2012 Saturday

INSIDE [HD05] sport [HD07] ^ Victim's son was shot dead weeks ago at pub [HD09]
DAD BLASTED IN GRENADE' TERROR ATTACK [HD11] sport [HD13] ^ Victim's son was
shot dead weeks ago at pub [HD15] Dinosaur poster [HD17] DAD BLASTED IN GRENADE'
TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Anthony Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1 words

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: mown down David Short, right, with tragic son Mark, and, far right,
Dale Cregan
mown down David Short, right, with tragic son Mark, and, far right, Dale Cregan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 12, 2012 Sunday

Governor of Homs visit Syrian citizens injured in attack by "terrorists"

LENGTH: 198 words


Text of report by R. Raslan published in English by state-run Syrian news agency
SANA website

["Governor of Homs visit citizens injured in terrorist attack"]

Homs - Governor of Homs Ahmad Munir Muhammad visited the injured citizens in
al-Za'eem Hospital who were on the bus targeted by the armed terrorist groups in
Al-Shammas neighbourhood in Homs.

The governor expressed deep regret over the children killed in the accident,
adding that they are the victims of the takfiri mentality which is so far from
Islam and its noble values. He called for warding off sedition and returning to
the right path, pointing out that the neighbourhood used to be safe and secure
before the entrance of armed terrorist groups.

The governor also inspected the situation in Karm al-Zaytun neighbourhood after
the armed forces cleaned it from terrorists and saboteurs, calling upon all
directorates to speed up providing necessary services and rehabilitating the
damaged schools before the beginning of the new year.

The inhabitants said that necessary needs of gas and bread are available,
calling upon other families to return to the neighbourhood.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 12 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 12, 2012 Sunday

Arab League to blame for "terrorist" attacks against Syrian journalists - union

LENGTH: 317 words


Text of report by R. Raslan published in English by state-run Syrian news agency
SANA website

["Syrian Journalists Union holds AL Ministerial Council responsible for
terrorist attacks against Syri..."]

Damascus - The Syrian Journalists' Union held the Arab League Ministerial
Council the responsibility of terrorists' attacks against the Syrian media and
its cadres.

In a letter addressing the Federation of Arab Journalists, the union indicated o
the assassination of journalist Ali Abbas, Head of the Internal News Department
at the Syrian News Agency (SANA) , and the abduction of the al-Ikhbariya TV news
team which consists of the newscaster Yara al-Salih, cameraman Abdullah Tubara,
Camera Assistant Hatim Abu Yehia and the driver Husam Imand two days ago while
they were carrying out their duty in covering events in Tal Mnin area in
Damascus Countryside.

The letter underlined that these terrorists acts against the Syrian media and
its cadres constitute a flagrant violation of the freedom of expression. It
added that these acts contradict false slogans of those who call for freedom
while their behaviours indicate that they are the enemies of freedom, reform and
human rights and reflect the bankruptcy of the terrorist groups and those who
support them in a coward attempt to silence the voice of truth, withhold right
information and violate values enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights.

The Union called upon the Federation of Arab Journalists, the International
Federation of Journalists, Arab and international organizations , Europe and the
whole world to condemn these terrorist and criminal acts which violate rights
and freedoms.

The letter called upon all parties concerned to exert efforts to release
al-Ikhbariya TV news team, holding the abductors and those who support them
responsible for their safety.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 12 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            August 14, 2012 Tuesday

Nuclear forensics task force helps identify source of terrorist attack during
major exercise

LENGTH: 830 words


August 13, 2012

MUSCATATUCK URBAN TRAINING CENTER, Ind. -- It sounds like a Hollywood movie. A
terrorist detonated a nuclear device in a major Midwestern city.

More than 300,000 killed; hundreds of thousands more wounded or missing. Local,
state and federal forces rush in to provide lifesaving and life-sustaining care.



A small team of Soldiers, Airmen, FBI agents and scientists set up a forward
operating base near the hot-zone and start collecting samples to be rushed off
to national laboratories to be analyzed to help track the nuclear device to
those responsible.

That is the training scenario for Prominent Hunt 12, a smaller exercise within
Vibrant Response 13, a major incident exercise conducted by U.S. Northern
Command and led by U.S. Army North.

Members of the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Ground Collections Task
Force, Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, assembled from the Department of
Justice, the Department of Energy and the Department of Defense, with oversight
from the Department of Homeland Security, conducted 24-hour operations July
26-31, at Jefferson Proving Grounds, Ind., to collect the simulated radioactive
debris samples quickly and to process, prepare and package the evidence for
transport to national laboratories.

The Department of Homeland Security, or DHS, led the planning for the exercise
and facilitated its execution. DHS coordinates the U.S. Government nuclear
forensics program across six federal organizations with responsibilities for
nuclear forensics, which also include the Department of State and the Office of
the Director of National Intelligence.

"In the event of a nuclear detonation, the foremost question in the mind of the
President of the United States, members of Congress and the American people will
be: 'Who is responsible for this?'" said FBI Supervisory Special Agent Terry
Kerns, deputy assistant director of the DHS Domestic Nuclear Detection Office.

The mission of the task force was straightforward.

"We are collecting evidentiary samples after a post-detonation event to do
analysis and provide insight for attribution," said FBI Supervisory Special
Agent Fred Pflueger, the task force leader.

Determining those responsible for an actual attack would depend on information
from intelligence and law enforcement as well as nuclear forensics analysis.

From their unnamed forward operating base at JPG, Soldiers from Nuclear
Disablement Team 2, 20th Spt. Cmd., based at Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md.,
headed out to collect a spectrum of simulated radioactive debris samples that
are then passed on to the Department of Energy, or DOE, scientists.

On each collection mission, a four-man team, composed of two Nuclear Disablement
Team Soldiers, an FBI special agent who must stay with the team to maintain
chain of custody, and a DOE scientist, collected samples at locations that the
task force planning cell had determined based on the simulated plume after the
detonation.

The Soldiers, in personal protective equipment, used small, hand-held vacuums to
capture the debris for handoff.

"Then the DOE takes collection at the [Forward Operating Base], screens it, and
then it's flown out with a special agent to a national laboratory for analysis,"
said Maj. Leif Hansen, Nuclear Training and Exercises, 20th Spt. Cmd.

The Nuclear Disablement Team Soldiers said they enjoyed the opportunity to
perform their mission.

"What we are doing is assisting the FBI with evidentiary collection of ground
samples," said Staff Sgt. Sacha Moore, NDT 2. "Every day that I get to do my job
is a great day."

During the exercise, the task force was able to accomplish a milestone.

"Today (July 30) we took it (collection samples) on a Black Hawk helicopter from
here to a nearby Army airfield and then flew it out on a fixed-wing aircraft to
Los Alamos National Laboratory (in Los Alamos, N.M.)," said Hansen.

Before the formation of the joint task force, collection missions were not well
integrated among the separate organizations and were less efficient, said
Pflueger.

"Now we have a unified front and excellent agency interoperability," said
Pflueger, adding that Army North's exercise was a great opportunity for the task
force to rehearse its mission and certify the Nuclear Disablement Team Soldiers.


"It was great working with Army North and Vibrant Response, and we received
outstanding logistical support," he said.

Working with the FBI, DHS and DOE has been beneficial for Army North, said Lt.
Col. Thomas Bright, director of training for Army North.

"Every interaction is an opportunity to learn," said Bright, "and we're
certainly learning."

The task force has made great strides, said Brig. Gen. Leslie Smith, commanding
general, 20th Spt. Cmd.

"The [National Technical Nuclear Forensics Ground Collections Task Force] has
grown immeasurably in the last two years," said Smith. "They demonstrated great
interagency and intergovernmental cooperation. It took the hard work of all the
team members to make this mission happen."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2012 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 15, 2012 Wednesday

(Corr) Turkish paper says "terrorist attacks" by Kurdish rebels on the rise

LENGTH: 347 words


(Correcting the word "agency" in the headline)

Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 15
August

The terrorist Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) kidnapped a Turkish deputy on
Sunday, but this was not the first time the violent group has committed such an
act. The PKK has kidnapped 10 people in Tunceli in the past year.

Terrorist attacks by the PKK targeting military units have escalated, but other
acts directed at civilians, including the burning of cars, violent street
demonstrations and abductions, are also increasingly common. Republican People's
Party (CHP) Tunceli deputy Huseyin Aygun, a vocal critic of the terrorist group
and a well-liked figure in Tunceli, is the latest victim of the terrorist group.
However, many local politicians and political figures in Tunceli have been
kidnapped before him. Other targets of the PKK in the region include
construction workers and contractors, which experts say are vital to the
region's development.

This is the first time the PKK has kidnapped a deputy. The last time the
terrorist group attacked a deputy was 33 years ago, when the group attacked
Justice Party (AP) deputy Mehmet Celal Bucak, a member of the Bucak clan, who
reside in Urfa but are originally from Diyarbakir. Bucak was injured in the
attack staged at his home, but his 8-year-old son died.

PKK abductions in Tunceli over the past year:

27 September 2011 - A village guard named Ismail Gurbuz was kidnapped

1 June 2012 - Four workers kidnapped. Names were not released.

8 June 2012 - Two villagers, Feramuzien and Ali Riza Duikur, were kidnapped.

9 July 2012 - Two people whose names haven't been released were kidnapped and
the vehicle they were in, which belonged to the AK Party Tunceli branch
president, was set alight.

6 August  2012 - Adem Ekelek, the contractor in charge of the construction of a
police station in Tunceli was kidnapped by PKK terrorists.

Most recently, on Sunday CHP Tunceli deputy Huseyin Aygun was kidnapped along a
road between the towns of Tunceli and Ovacik.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 15 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 15, 2012 Wednesday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 177 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

ANKARA (AA) -Turkey has condemned the latest terrorist attacks waged in several
regions of Afghanistan.

Releasing a written statement on Wednesday, the Turkish Ministry of Foreign
Affairs expressed grief over the attacks perpetrated in Afghanistan's Nimroz and
Kunduz provinces, killing 42 people and wounding more than 130.

"We strongly condemn these attacks aiming at failing efforts for peace,
stability and prosperity in Afghanistan," the ministry said.

"We convey our condolences to the families of victims and wish a speedy recovery
to those injured," the ministry added.

The statement also noted that Turkey would keep standing in solidarity with
Afghan people during such a challenging period.

Suicide bombers launched multiple attacks in Afghanistan's southwestern Nimroz
and northern Kunduz provinces on Tuesday, killing and wounding dozens, most of
whom were civilians.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 1202
gmt 15 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           August 15, 2012 Wednesday

Syrian rebels move to 'terrorist' hit-and-run attacks

BYLINE: Our Foreign Desk

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 348 words


A bomb exploded near several military buildings and a hotel housing UN
observers, wounding three people. A trade union building across from the hotel
was also damaged and black smoke billowed high into the sky before the fire was
extinguished. No UN staff were hurt in the blast and Syrian Deputy Foreign
Minister Faisal Mekdad told reporters at the scene that the bombing proved "the
criminal and barbaric nature of those who carry out these attacks and their
backers in Syria and abroad."

Meanwhile, fighting broke out in areas of Damascus near government offices and
the Iranian embassy. Military sources said that the rebels could not maintain a
full military offensive against overwhelming government forces but have now
adopted a hit-and-run tactic together with terrorist-style bomb attacks and
kidnaps which more readily suited their resources. UN emergency relief
co-ordinator Valerie Amos, on a mission to seek more access for aid deliveries,
was meeting officials in Damascus when the bomb exploded. Meanwhile, a Lebanese
clan announced that it had captured more than 20 Syrians and will hold them
until one of their relatives seized by rebels was freed. Maher al-Meqdad said
the abductions were a response to the capture of Hassan al-Meqdad in Damascus
two days ago by the rebel Free Syrian Army, which claimed that he had been sent
to Syria by Hezbollah. Mr Meqdad said his relative had gone to Syria long before
the uprising began and had no links to the fighting. In Geneva, a UN panel
concluded that President Bashar al-Assad's forces and pro-government shabiha
fighters had perpetrated war crimes and crimes against humanity. The panel also
concluded that anti-government armed groups committed war crimes, including
murder, extrajudicial killings and torture, but insisted that it had been on a
lesser frequency and scale. An emergency summit of the Organisation of Islamic
Co-operation was held in Mecca, Saudi Arabia, yesterday to discuss suspending
Syria. As the Morning Star went to press, no decision had been reached on the
suspension. foreigneditor@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 16, 2012 Thursday 5:14 PM GMT

Samantha Lewthwaite terror cell 'was preparing attack';
A terror cell including alleged British jihadists Samantha Lewthwaite and
Jermaine Grant was "in the last stages" of preparing an attack in Kenya when
Grant was arrested before Christmas last year.

BYLINE: By Mike Pflanz Mombasa

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 371 words


Anti-terror officers, boosted by reinforcements drafted in around the country,
moved on Grant and his Kenyan housemate after five days of covert surveillance
in the coastal city of Mombasa.

A search of the men's two-bedroom flat later unearthed chemicals identical to
those used by Lewthwaite's husband, Jermaine Linsday, to kill 26 people on the
Piccadilly Line under Kings Cross on July 7, 2005.

Lewthwaite, who converted to Islam as a teenager, is believed to have been
working with Grant and others to carry out a terror attack on a hotel in Mombasa
or shopping mall in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.

"We went to Mombasa to arrest terrorists believed to be planning an attack in
the city, who were in the last stages of preparations," Sgt Peter Muli told
Grant's trial.

Grant, 29, from Newham, London, his housemate, Fouad Abubakar Manswab, and his
Kenyan wife, Warda Breik Islam, 19, face two counts of possessing explosives and
plotting to make a bomb.

All three deny the charges. Lewthwaite, 28, charged separately but facing the
same allegations, slipped Kenyan police clutches in December and has been on the
run with her four children since.

"A source of information in Mombasa had passed us information about the
whereabouts of the accused persons," Sergeant Muli said.

"They were among a group of people believed to be terrorists, of some other
nationalities, not Kenyan. We were part of an operation to stop them."

Other members of the cell were still at large, he added.

"I cannot say exactly how many we were looking for because we are still
searching for some of them," he said.

Although Samantha Lewthwaite's name was not mentioned in court yesterday,
prosecution sources said it was "quite clear" that Sergeant Muli was referring
to the mother-of-four from Aylesbury, Bucks.

Six Scotland Yard detectives are still to testify in the case, which is expected
to last well into next year.

Police officers assaulted Grant and Abubakar when they arrested them, hooding
them and using more than necessary force, Chacha Mwita, Grant's defence lawyer,
alleged during cross-examination of Sergeant Muli.

He denied this. The court was adjourned until December 10, when Scotland Yard
officers are expected to be called to give evidence

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 17, 2012 Friday

Analyst says militants looking to weaken Pakistan with terror attacks

LENGTH: 1319 words


Text of report from Pakistani state-run television channel PTV News on 16 August

[Anchorperson Dr Anita Raja] We have invited defense analyst retired Lieutenant
General Talat Masood. Let us discuss this issue with him.

[Raja] Peace be on you, general.

[Masood] Peace be on you too.

[Raja] It is extremely regretful. It conveys a shameful message internationally.
It is being communicated that the common people are not being spared even on
27th day of Ramadan. What would you say regarding this?

[Masood] You are absolutely right. It means these are the kind of organizations
that have no humanity or religion.

Defense analyst Lt Gen Talat Masood PTV News Aug

Defense analyst Lt Gen Talat Masood (PTV News, 16 Aug)

They do not care that it is the month of Ramadan. They do not have any sanctity
for the month of Ramadan. I believe we should understand that only state and
government are not responsible to confront these forces [words indistinct]. Such
elements will grow stronger if the government does not enjoy the support of the
people. The extremists will challenge the government if it has weaknesses or if
it does not enjoy the support of the people.

[Anchorperson Kamran] Earlier, individuals were being targeted. However, we have
seen that extremists have been targeting security organizations for some time.
What are the reasons for this?

[Masood] This is a very good question. This is for the reason that the stateless
institutions and terrorist organizations want to weaken the state. They are
targeting the security organizations in order to weaken the state. You see they
are consistently targeting the military installations, intelligence
organizations or police. It means they want to convey the message that they have
more power than the state. However, the people, government and state of Pakistan
will resolutely confront these elements with courage and they would not be
allowed to succeed.

[Raja] General, we need to particularly focus on one thing that the terrorists
succeed to enter the security organizations. Where do we lack //security-wise//?
Where is the lapse? We saw similar lapse in Karachi [words indistinct]. Why do
we see such lapses?

[Masood] There are several reasons for this. The fundamental reason is that the
terrorists take advantage of the hideouts they have set up in tribal areas of
Pakistan and Afghanistan. They are carrying out such activities from the
hideouts. I would say the intelligence organizations had warned about it. There
was high alert at the military organizations and air force installations.
However, the terrorists managed to penetrate despite all this. I believe they
took advantage of Ramadan. The arrangements may not be proper [words
indistinct]. However, the terrorists succeeded. Therefore, there is need for
comprehensive policy for //counter-terrorism// and //counter-insurgency//. The
government should dismantle the //cells// of these people in cities and urban
cities near such installations. The government also needs to carry out action in
tribal areas. The civilian government needs to carry out the //follow-up
operation// in order to improve economic situation in tribal areas.

[Raja] The US Defense Secretary Leon Panetta made a statement recently that that
the nuclear program is in danger as there is huge security lapse in Pakistan. He
maintained the nukes can fall into the hands of the terrorists. Now, couple of
these incidents has taken place in series. Then, we also see Panetta's
statement. Do you believe it is a part of the process?

[Masood] We should look at it in a way that such incidents succeed to some
extent when they are carried out against defense installations. This is a
nuclear country. Therefore, the people fear the terrorists can also attack the
nuclear assets of the country. However, the kind of steps taken by the SPD
[Strategic Plans Division] and other institutions responsible for the security
of the nuclear assets in Pakistan rule out any such p ossibility. However, such
fears will be expressed at the international level if such attacks continue.

[Kamran] General, you were talking about how to stop these incidents. In this
regard, we have seen that the miscreants use our people against ourselves. What
steps we can take in order to avert this?

[Masood] First of all, intolerance has greatly increased in every respect in the
country. There have been similar actions against sects. Politicians are not
ready to listen to each other [words indistinct. I believe there is nee d of
military operation against the elements, which are not willing to accept the
state and hold talks. There are also misguided people who can be convinced
through negotiations. Pakistan will need to adopt a comprehensive policy for
//counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism//.

[Raja] General, the terrorists take advantage of the loophole that is always
present in the security. The newspapers carry reports after the incident. There
are headlines, which convey an extremely negative message about the security of
Pakistan internationally. Why we do not cater this situation. As you mentioned
we need to formulate a comprehensive policy. We know the policy is //deficient//
and there are gray areas in the policy.

[Masood] Look, as far as I know the government is facing different kinds of
pressure. It is facing pressure from the judiciary, in addition to other
pressures. We do not have the kind of government that addresses the issues that
you mentioned. I believe the security of the people is the top most
responsibility of the government. I believe this is the most important thing.
Therefore, all institutions need to cooperate if we have to focus on security in
the country. There is need to carry out legislation in this regard. Terrorists
are released as we do not have proper legislation right now. In addition to
this, there is need to provide protection to the courts. They cannot hear cases
against the terrorists out of fear until they are provided protection.
Therefore, we need to carry out several steps before there is improvement in the
situation. However, this is not a matter of a day. This is not a decision that
needs to be made at any particular point in time. These decisions need to be
implemented for months and years before the situation improves in Pakistan. This
is also connected to the international issues. If we have better relations at
the international level [words indistinct].

[Kamran] Talking about training and weapons, which elements can be involved in
the training and providing latest weapons to the terrorists?

[Masood] This is a good question. Actually, they have established a kind of
government at some places. They are running a //parallel administration// at
these places. They are carrying out //drug smuggling//. Smuggling is also taking
place. They charge toll tax. They improve their financial position and buy
weapons. Few elements are enemies of Pakistan. They also provide help to them.
There is need to //squeeze// such things. However, as I mentioned there is need
for a comprehensive policy and we cannot ignore this fact in the policy.

[Raja] General, we are a frontline state in the war against terrorism. We are
also a victim of the war against terrorism. We have a //porous border// with
Afghanistan. How much the porous border and the geographical location are
contributing to terrorism in Pakistan.

[Masood] There is no doubt that it is having a great impact on us. However, we
have to prepare ourselves for this. We are not sure if the situation will
improve in Afghanistan. It does not mean that the future of Pakistan is linked
to the future of Afghanistan to such extent that there is no stability in
Pakistan without stability in Afgha nistan. We should formulate a policy so that
there is a minimum loss to the country.

[Raja] General, thank you very much for you precious time and coming over here.
[End of live relay]

Source: PTV News, Islamabad, in Urdu 1154gmt 16 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 17, 2012 Friday

Nigerian group says suspects arrested over church attack not terrorists

LENGTH: 312 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper Daily Trust website on 16 August

[Report by Mohammed S. Shehu: "Okene Attacks: Suspects are Victims, Not
Culprits-Rights Group"]

The first three set of suspects recently paraded by the police over the bombing
of a Deeper Life Bible Church and killing of two soldiers all in Okene, Kogi
State, were actually victims of the bombing not the suspected assailants, Peace
and Human Rights Watch (PHRW) has said.

The three suspects, a woman and two men were allegedly arrested in Edo state and
paraded by the security agencies in the state last week as suspects.

The group in a petition to President Goodluck Jonathan, said that it had
conducted an investigation into the incidence and discovered that the three
persons: Yekini Isa, Adamu Adeiza and Mrs Sametu Ovavi were never part of any
terrorist gang.

The petition, signed by the Kogi State Coordinator of the group, Mohammed Itopa
and the spokesman, Yusuf Idris, said Isa was actually a victim of a stray bullet
in the Okene incidence.

"A Tafsir (Islamic public preaching) was being held at Okene Central Mosque
where Yekini Isa was in attendance. Following gunshots and killing of soldiers
by four men dressed in white gowns, the people at the mosque had to run for
safety. It was a stray bullet that hit Isa in the head.

"Because there was a directive that nobody with bullet wounds should be treated
in Okene, Isa was taken to Ayunko hospital in Ibillo, Edo state.

The group said that "just as Mrs Ovavi, a widow, was at the hospital to attend
to Isa, his cousin, Adeiza, who works in Abuja went to sympathise with him but
were all arrested and paraded as members of the terrorist gang."

Parading the suspects, Police Commissioner Mohammed Musa Katsina had claimed
that the three people were arrested at Ibillo in Edo State after a gun duel.

Source: Daily Trust website, Abuja, in English 16 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       August 17, 2012 Friday 4:08 PM GMT

Germany to allow domestic military operations;
Germany's top court has ruled that the military may conduct combat operations
within the country's borders in case of a terror attack of "catastrophic
proportions", ending a post-war taboo.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 213 words


The Federal Constitutional Court said the Bundeswehr armed forces could deploy
under strict conditions in case of an assault in Germany with the potential for
scores of casualties.

The deployment of troops in Germany is only acceptable in "states of emergency
of catastrophic proportions," the judges ruled, but never "in reaction to the
threat posed by demonstrating crowds".

The use of combat weapons is only acceptable "as a last resort" and must be
approved by the federal government, not simply delegated to the defence
minister.

Shooting down a hijacked passenger plane with civilians on board remains illegal
after the ruling but fighter jets could attempt to force an aircraft to land
with warning shots.

The ruling marked a reversal of a decision by the same court in 2006 and was a
response to complaints from two of Germany's 16 federal states.

The German government had attempted to allow more flexibility in its military
response to a possible terror attack in the wake of the September 11, 2001
suicide hijackings in the United States.

But it ran into resistance from the court, which cited strict restrictions on
the deployment of the military in Germany set down in the constitution in light
of the abuses by troops and paramilitary forces in the Nazi period.

Source: AFP

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                      WENN Entertainment News Wire Service

                      August 18, 2012 Saturday 2:01 PM GMT

CLIVE OWEN'S CHILDHOOD FEARS OVER TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: MOVIE

LENGTH: 157 words


British actor CLIVE OWEN grew up fearing he'd fall victim to a terrorist attack
after seeing horrific news reports of conflict in Northern Ireland.

The Sin City star, who grew up in Coventry, England, became terrified he would
be embroiled in an attack by the Irish Republican Army (IRA).

Owen, whose new espionage thriller Shadow Dancer is set in Belfast, Northern
Ireland during the height of the Troubles, once lived in the city when he was
starring in a local play.

He tells Britain's Independent newspaper, "I grew up with it being part of our
lives and every night hearing some report on the news about the Troubles. (It
was) rough... It was a war zone.

"I remember going out in the evenings and it was disconcerting what was
happening on the streets. They'd do these drills where the vans pull up and the
soldiers all jump out and hit their positions and the first time I saw that, I
seriously thought: 'I'm in the middle of a situation.'"

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2012 World Entertainment News Network Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 19, 2012 Sunday

Four Algerian "terrorists" said killed in "spectacular attack" by security
forces

LENGTH: 185 words


Four Algerian "terrorists" have been killed and their weapons seized in a
"spectacular" operation by the security services in the east of the country, the
Internet site of the privately-owned, French-language daily newspaper El Watan
reported on 19 August.

El Watan said that the operation, "which took everybody by surprise", was
carried out on the night of 17 August in the Boumahrane estate, near the city
centre of El Milia town, some 60 km to the east of costal city of Jijel, some
350 km east of Algiers.

The paper quoted "corroborating sources" as saying the unidentified "terrorists
had been in the city for a few days and were planning an abduction or an
attack".

The security services were following their moves and killed them while they were
in a Renault Symbol vehicle, the paper added.

El Watan indicated that "even at the height of the fight against terrorism, El
Milia had been spared from large-scale terrorist attacks".

In the last few years, these attacks have been carried out by the Al-Qa'idah in
the Land of the Islamic Maghreb (AQLIM).

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 19 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 20, 2012 Monday

Criminal case over attempted terror attack launched in Russia's Tatarstan

LENGTH: 90 words


Text of report by state-controlled Russian Channel One TV on 20 August

Tatarstan is investigating the details of an accident: an exploded car and three
dead bodies have been found near the Kazan-Zelenodolsk highway. An Ak-47 and
religious literature were discovered nearby.

Investigators link this to preparations for a terrorist attack. A criminal case
has been launched. The explosive device most likely detonated during planting.
Investigators are working on the scene of accident.

Source: Channel One TV, Moscow, in Russian 1100 gmt 20 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             August 20, 2012 Monday

LIBYAN TERROR ATTACKS KILL TWO

BYLINE: BY NO BYLINE AVAILABLE

LENGTH: 118 words


A WOMEN'S police academy in Libya was blasted by two car bombs yesterday among a
wave of terror attacks that killed at least two people.

The Interior Ministry was also targeted in the first lethal bombings since
Colonel Gaddafi was toppled from power last year.

The violence came as it was revealed the tyrant's son, Saif, is to go on trial
next month.

Libya's newly elected government has reportedly done a deal with the militia in
the mountain town of Zintan - who caught Saif trying to flee across the desert
last November - to hold the court case there.

He will be charged with urging supporters to kill demonstrators during the
uprising. If found guilty, he could be sentenced to death by hanging.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      August 20, 2012 Monday 11:33 AM GMT

Two dead in Libyan terror attack after woman's police academy is targeted by two
car bombs

BYLINE: SAM GREENHILL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 551 words


A women's police academy in Libya was blasted by two car bombs yesterday among a
wave of terror attacks that killed at least two people.

The interior ministry was also targeted in the first lethal bombings since
Colonel Gaddafi was toppled from power last year.

The violence came as it was revealed the tyrant's captured son Saif al-Islam
Gaddafi is to go on trial next month.

Scroll down for video

Libya's newly-elected government has reportedly done a deal with the militia in
the mountain town of Zintan - who caught Saif trying to flee across the desert
last November - to hold the court case there.

He will be charged with urging supporters to kill demonstrators during last
year's uprising.

If found guilty, he faces being hanged.

Since the 42-year Gaddafi rule ended last year, Libya has struggled to contain
sporadic outbreaks of violence despite a peaceful handover of power following
elections in July.

Yesterday's car bombings marked a worrying new trend with echoes of the bloody
chaos in Iraq that followed the downfall of Saddam Hussein.

The first bomb blew up near the interior ministry's administrative offices in
Tripoli but caused no casualties. On arriving at the scene of the explosion,
police found another car bomb that had not blown up.

Minutes later, two car bombs exploded near a women's police academy, which the
defence ministry has been using for interrogations and detentions, killing two
civilians and wounding two others.

The buildings targeted by the bombers are in residential areas at the heart of
the capital.

The International Committee of the Red Cross announced that it was suspending
its activities in Benghazi, Libya's second biggest city, and Misrata after one
of its compounds in Misrata was attacked with grenades and rockets.

The trial of Saif Gaddafi will be one of the biggest events the country has
seen.

Previous attempts to bring him to trial had been plagued with arguments over
whether the case should be heard in the capital.

The Zintan brigade fighters insisted he be tried in their home town amid fears
he might escape with the help of sympathisers if he was put in the dock in
Tripoli, or that he would be treated leniently.

The decision was also complicated by a demand from the International Criminal
Court that Saif be tried at The Hague.

One official from the Libyan prosecutor's office told the Sunday Telegraph: 'We
are sure that the evidence we have gathered is solid and it will shock and
surprise the world.

We believe we are capable of holding a fair trial.' Three Libyan judges will
hear the case, which is expected to last for up to six months, with two
prosecutors.

Saif, 39, has so far refused to appoint a lawyer to defend him, and one will be
appointed for him if he continues to do so.

Colonel Gaddafi was killed in the latter stages of the war after ruling the
country for four decades.

Human rights groups have argued that the Libyan justice system is not capable of
dealing with such a highprofile case.

Amnesty International said an unfair trial in Libya would go against 'justice
and accountability'.

Saif al-Islam was arrested in November in Libya's southern desert while trying
to flee to Niger.

VIDEO: The aftermath of the two car bombs in Libya...

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       August 20, 2012 Monday 1:48 AM GMT

Two dead in Libyan terror attack after woman's police academy is targeted by
pair of car bombs

BYLINE: SAM GREENHILL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 522 words


A women's police academy in Libya was blasted by two car bombs yesterday among a
wave of terror attacks that killed at least two people.

The interior ministry was also targeted in the first lethal bombings since
Colonel Gaddafi was toppled from power last year.

The violence came as it was revealed the tyrant's captured son Saif al-Islam
Gaddafi is to go on trial next month.

Libya's newly-elected government has reportedly done a deal with the militia in
the mountain town of Zintan - who caught Saif trying to flee across the desert
last November - to hold the court case there.

He will be charged with urging supporters to kill demonstrators during last
year's uprising.

If found guilty, he faces being hanged.

Since the 42-year Gaddafi rule ended last year, Libya has struggled to contain
sporadic outbreaks of violence despite a peaceful handover of power following
elections in July.

Yesterday's car bombings marked a worrying new trend with echoes of the bloody
chaos in Iraq that followed the downfall of Saddam Hussein.

The first bomb blew up near the interior ministry's administrative offices in
Tripoli but caused no casualties. On arriving at the scene of the explosion,
police found another car bomb that had not blown up.

Minutes later, two car bombs exploded near a women's police academy, which the
defence ministry has been using for interrogations and detentions, killing two
civilians and wounding two others.

The buildings targeted by the bombers are in residential areas at the heart of
the capital.

The International Committee of the Red Cross announced that it was suspending
its activities in Benghazi, Libya's second biggest city, and Misrata after one
of its compounds in Misrata was attacked with grenades and rockets.

The trial of Saif Gaddafi will be one of the biggest events the country has
seen.

Previous attempts to bring him to trial had been plagued with arguments over
whether the case should be heard in the capital.

The Zintan brigade fighters insisted he be tried in their home town amid fears
he might escape with the help of sympathisers if he was put in the dock in
Tripoli, or that he would be treated leniently.

The decision was also complicated by a demand from the International Criminal
Court that Saif be tried at The Hague.

One official from the Libyan prosecutor's office told the Sunday Telegraph: 'We
are sure that the evidence we have gathered is solid and it will shock and
surprise the world.

We believe we are capable of holding a fair trial.' Three Libyan judges will
hear the case, which is expected to last for up to six months, with two
prosecutors.

Saif, 39, has so far refused to appoint a lawyer to defend him, and one will be
appointed for him if he continues to do so.

Colonel Gaddafi was killed in the latter stages of the war after ruling the
country for four decades.

Human rights groups have argued that the Libyan justice system is not capable of
dealing with such a highprofile case.

Amnesty International said an unfair trial in Libya would go against 'justice
and accountability'.

Saif al-Islam was arrested in November in Libya's southern desert while trying
to flee to Niger.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            August 21, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BIG BRO KNIFE ATTACK TERROR;
Shrink called in over rampage

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 52 words


MODEL Jasmine Lennard has turned into a psycho in the Celebrity Big Brother
house.

Worried housemates hid all the knives and TV bosses called in a psychologist
after Simon Cowell's ex went on a screaming rampage. Rival Rhian Sugden said: "I
can't live with someone who can switch any second."

CBB special: Pages 4-5

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCKED: Rival CBB babe Rhian
MELTDOWN: Jasmine
Picture: SCOTT NINNESS / CHILLI MEDIA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                 Scottish Star

                            August 21, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

BIG BRO KNIFE ATTACK TERROR;
Shrink called in over rampage

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 52 words


MODEL Jasmine Lennard has turned into a psycho in the Celebrity Big Brother
house. Worried housemates hid all the knives and TV bosses called in a
psychologist after Simon Cowell's ex went on a screaming rampage. Rival Rhian
Sugden said: "I can't live with someone who can switch any second."

CBB special: Pages 4-5

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MELTDOWN: Jasmine
SHOCKED: Rival CBB babe Rhian
Picture: SCOTT NINNESS / CHILLI MEDIA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSTscot


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 22, 2012 Wednesday

Iran condemns "terrorist" attack in Turkey

LENGTH: 104 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry Spokesman Ramin Mehmanparast has condemned the
"terrorist" attack in Turkey, the Mehr news agency reported on 22 August.

According to Mehr, following an explosion in southeast Turkey, which left a
number of Turkish citizens dead or injured, Mehmanparast condemned the attack
and expressed sympathy with those who survived the explosion.

The report quoted Mehmanparast as saying: "Foreign Minister Dr Salehi has also
sent a message to his Turkish counterpart condemning the bombing and expressing
his condolences to the people of Turkey."

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 1955 gmt 22 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     August 22, 2012 Wednesday 7:00 AM GMT

Iran's supreme leader orders fresh terror attacks on West;
Iran's Supreme Leader has ordered the country's Revolutionary Guards to
intensify its campaign of terror attacks against the West and its allies in
retaliation for supporting the overthrow of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria.

BYLINE: By Con Coughlin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 560 words


According to Western intelligence officials, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei gave the
order to the elite Quds Force unit following a recent emergency meeting of
Iran's National Security Council in Tehran held to discuss a
specially-commissioned report into the implications for Iran  of the Assad
regime's overthrow.

Damascus is Iran's most important regional ally, and the survival of the Assad
regime is regarded as vital to sustaining the Iranian-backed Hizbollah militia
which controls southern Lebanon.

The report, which was personally commissioned by Mr Khamenei, concluded that
Iran's national interests were being threatened by a combination of the U.N.
sanctions imposed over Iran's nuclear programme and the West's continuing
support for Syrian opposition groups attempting to overthrow the Syrian
government.

Intelligence officials say the report concludes that Iran "cannot be passive" to
the new threats posed to its national security, and warns that Western support
for Syrian opposition groups was placing Iran's "resistance alliance" in
jeopardy, and could seriously disrupt Iran's access to Hizbollah in Lebanon.

It advised that the Iranian regime should demonstrate to the West that there
were "red lines" over what it would accept in Syria, and that a warning should
be sent to "America, the Zionists, Britain, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and
others that they cannot act with impunity in Syria and elsewhere in the region."

Mr Khamenei responded by issuing a directive to Qassem Suleimani, the Quds Force
commander, to intensify attacks against the West and its allies around the
world.

The Quds Force has recently been implicated in a series of terror attacks
against Western targets. Last year U.S. officials implicated the organisation in
a failed assassination attempt against the Saudi Arabian ambassador to
Washington. It was also implicated in three bomb attacks against Israeli
diplomats in February, planning to attack the Eurovision song contest in
Azerbaijan while two Iranians were arrested in Kenya last month for possessing
explosives.

Intelligence officials believe the recent spate of Iranian attacks has been
carried out by the Quds Force's Unit 400, which runs special overseas
operations.

"Unit 400 seems to have been involved in all the recent Iranian terrorist
operations," said a senior Western intelligence official. "The Iranian regime
now seems determined to retaliate for what they regard as the West's attempts to
influence the outcome of the Syrian unrest."

Iran has been actively supporting the Assad regime's attempts to suppress the
wave of anti-government protests that erupted in March last year. Iranian
opposition groups claim teams of experienced Revolutionary Guard officers have
been flying to Damascus on specially-chartered Iranian aircraft on a weekly
basis to advise the Assad regime.

The extent of Iran's support for the Assad regime was exposed earlier this month
when 48 Iranians were captured and taken hostage by Syrian opposition fighters.
The Iranians, who are said to include senior Revolutionary Guard officers,
claimed they were conducting "reconnaissance missions", and their capture by
Syrian opposition fighters was deeply embarrassing for Tehran, which is
demanding their immediate safe return to Iran. Syrian rebels have threatened to
kill the hostages unless Iran ends its support for the Assad regime.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                     August 22, 2012 Wednesday 7:12 PM  EST

FOREIGN OFFICE MINISTER BURT CONDEMNS LATEST TERRORIST ATTACK IN TURKEY

LENGTH: 97 words


LONDON, Aug. 22 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

"I was saddened to hear of the latest terrorist outrage in Gaziantep" said
Foreign Office Minister Alistair Burt in response to the attack on 20 August.

"We offer our condolences to the families of the victims and wish those injured
a speedy recovery. The UK condemns all acts of terrorism and will continue to
stand together with Turkey in its fight against such atrocities." For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2012 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                    August 22, 2012 Wednesday 10:47 AM  EST

FOREIGN OFFICE MINISTER CONDEMNS LATEST TERRORIST ATTACK IN TURKEY

LENGTH: 102 words


LONDON, Aug. 22 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

"I was saddened to hear of the latest terrorist outrage in Gaziantep" said
Foreign Office Minister Alistair Burt in response to the attack on 20 August.

"We offer our condolences to the families of the victims and wish those injured
a speedy recovery. The UK condemns all acts of terrorism and will continue to
stand together with Turkey in its fight against such atrocities." For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2012 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 23, 2012 Thursday

Afghan leader calls on Taleban to clarify if they behind terrorist attack

LENGTH: 1007 words


Text of report by state-owned National Afghanistan TV on 21 August

[Presenter] President Hamed Karzai flew to Zaranj city, provincial capital of
the southern Nimroz Province, this afternoon to express condolences and share
the agony of the families of the victims of the recent terrorist attack in this
province. Abdol Basir Ayubi and Jawed Kotwal have more details.

[Correspondent] The president and accompanying delegation attended the prayer
services at the Azadi guesthouse in Zaranj city in the presence of the survivors
of the martyrs and wounded of the recent terrorist attack and elders of Nimroz
Province. The prayer services began with a recitation of verses from the
glorious Koran and supplication to Allah, the almighty, who may bestow peace and
tranquillity upon the soul of the martyrs.

Then, the Nimroz governor, Abdol Karim Barawi, thanked the Afghan president for
his sympathy and for sharing sorrows with the families of the victims and gave
details about the terrorist attack that took place on 27 of the holy month of
Ramadan in which several innocent civilians, including children and women, were
killed.

Meanwhile, the governor raised their problems, such as the lack of roads,
hospitals and drinking water, demanding that construction work be speeded up on
the Kamal Khan Dam in Nimroz Province.

Expressing his condolences and sympathy with the families of the victims of the
recent terrorist attack, the president said:

[President Karzai, speaking at a gathering] Today, I came here to share grief
and attend prayer services with the dearest people of Nimroz Province. Today, we
neither talk about reconstruction nor governance. While this is Id, it is hard
to know what words to use to congratulate the families of the victims on Id, the
wounded and people of Nimroz Province who are suffering all these pains and
sorrows. However, Id is also part of our religious life, and thanks Allah, God
Almighty, we are Muslims. With all pains and sorrows we have still this is Id,
and I congratulate you on this Id. I wanted to come here on the first day of Id,
but I thought that all Muslims are busy visiting their relatives on the first
day and that I did not disturb you. I said I would visit them on the second or
third day of Id. Hence, I assigned them [relative officials] to make
arrangements to travel to Nimroz Province to present our condolences to the
people of this province so that Allah may rescue Afghanistan from these
disasters.

[Correspondent] The president described the terrorist attack as open enmity with
Islam, mankind and Allah's religion. He said:

[Karzai] What happened in Nimroz Province a few days ago or what is happening in
other parts of Afghanistan such as Konduz, Khost, Nangarhar, Kandahar or any
other provinces is enmity with mankind, Muslims and Allah's religion and
creatures. The form and shape of this violent enmity is becoming clear with
every passing day. This is enmity with Allah's slaves. This is enmity with
Allah's helpless and oppressed creatures who are serving Allah. What kind of
Muslim is this who cuts into pieces in explosions and suicide attacks the small
son of a mother who is eking out a living by selling things on the street? And
even his parents do not find pieces of the body of their son. This is
oppression. This is open oppression and enmity with Allah and his creatures.
This is enmity with Allah and his slaves.

[Correspondent] Addressing the families of the martyrs, President Karzai said:

[President Karzai] I cannot reduce the agony of the parents and survivors of
these martyrs. This injury at the hearts of the mothers of the martyrs will
never heal. This injury will remain at their hearts as long as they are alive,
but as far as a human's ability is concerned, I can improve their living
conditions. I can give them land. We want to prepare the ground for the young
wounded to study. We can provide employment opportunities for them and set a
salary for them. I cannot reduce their sorrows, but I may serve them by
facilitating life for them.

[Correspondent] Calling on the Taleban again, the president said:

[President Karzai] Whoever did this, the Taleban and their leaders should know
that they will have to pay for it. I also said after the Id prayers that if the
Taleban and their leaders did not commit this crime and other enemies of
Afghanistan are behind it, they should raise their voice and say you did not
commit this oppression. But if you do not raise your voice and keep silent and
mute or you do not dare to raise your voice, then you have to pay. Today, I call
on them again that if you killed these sons, you should know that they were the
oppressed, helpless and very poor sons of this land who were busy eking out a
living by selling things in searing heat. Why did you kill them? When the
suicide attackers came, without a doubt, and I do not have any doubt - everyone
has his own belief - I tell you about my own belief, when the suicide attackers
came and those who transferred these suicide attackers here, in my opinion they
are not Muslims at all. They are the enemy of Islam. They are the enemy of Allah
and his creatures. When they kill the children of Muslims and kill the
impoverished and helpless ones, they are not Muslim.

[Correspondent] Then, the wounded of the recent terrorist attack in Nimroz
Province shared their problems with the president. [Passage omitted, indistinct
voice, the wounded talked to the president]

[Correspondent continued] Afterwards, the president greeted elders of Nimroz
Province and listened to their problems. Also, some cash has been distributed to
the families of the martyrs. The president was accompanied during this visit by
Mawlawi Mahidin Baluch, presidential advisor; MPs from Nimroz Province; Abdol
Karim Khorram, the head of the presidential office; Dr Sadeq Modaber, the head
of the presidential administration department and Council of Ministers'
secretariats; Emal Faizi, presidential spokesman, and some other officials.

Source: National Afghanistan TV, Kabul, in Dari 1530 gmt 21 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      August 23, 2012 Thursday 6:29 PM GMT

Rogge endures uncomfortable evening over Munich;
Ankie Spitzer, widow of one of the Israel athletes killed by terrorists at the
1972 Games, leads attack on IOC president

BYLINE: Alexandra FreanPhilip WillanMartin RobertsHugh TomlinsonLucy
AlexanderFrancis ElliottWill PaviaandRoger Boyes , , , , , ,

SECTION: PARALYMPICS

LENGTH: 1908 words


Israel

Roger Boyes, Diplomatic Editor

The widow of one of the Israel athletes killed by terrorists at the 1972 Munich
Games has led a blazing attack on Jacques Rogge, the president of the IOC, as he
was sitting uncomfortably through a London memorial service.

Ankie Spitzer, addressing an audience of senior British and Israeli politicians,
blamed the IOC for blocking an Israeli request to hold a minute of silence at
the opening ceremony for the 11 sportsmen and coaches murdered in Munich.

"Only the IOC remains deaf and blind," she said turning from the podium at the
Guildhall, London, to face Rogge.

"Is the IOC only interested in power, money and politics? Our loved ones came
back in coffins yet they were part of the Olympic family . . ."

Members of the audience started to shout "Shame!" and Spitzer, whose husband,
Andre, was the Israel fencing coach and a referee, took up the call. "Shame on
you IOC because you have forgotten 11 members of the Olympic family," she said.
"You're discriminating against them only because they are Israelis and Jews."

Rogge, who had earlier delivered a short, mild-mannered speech deploring
terrorism, must have known that the event on Monday evening was not going to be
an easy moment for him.

Limor Livnat, the Israeli Minister of Culture and Sport, hit out not only at the
IOC - "silence in the face of evil affords evil victory" - but also embarrassed
Guido Westerwelle, the German Foreign Minister, by claiming that German
neo-Nazis were accomplices to the Palestinian Black September terror group in
the Munich attack.

Mick Davis, the chief executive of Xstrata, the Anglo-Swiss mining company who
is chairman of the United Israel Appeal, said: "We say to the IOC that to be
silent is to be complicit."

Although other speeches - notably those of David Cameron and Nick Clegg -
sidestepped the thorny issue of the minute of silence, Rogge was left in no
doubt that the campaign would roll on into the Rio de Janeiro Olympics.

"We will come back until we hear the words you need to say because you owe
them," Spitzer said. The murdered sportsmen and coaches, she added, had to be
honoured: "Not here in this beautiful Guildhall, not in the Hilton Hotel in
Beijing, not in the backyard of our ambassador in Athens, but within the Olympic
framework."

There was a standing ovation for Spitzer, at least in the main body of the
Guildhall. Rogge, a yachting Olympian in 1972, stayed in his seat.

Israel has organised a commemoration on the fringes of Olympic Games since 2000
and Rogge has taken part since the Athens Games in 2004. But Israel sees the
massacre as a critical part of its national narrative and argues that the memory
of the attack is being quietly brushed out by the Olympic authorities.

The gathering pace of international support for an "Olympic Minute of Silence" -
the Obama Administration and the Senate has come out in favour, as has the
German parliament - is putting pressure on the IOC. Rogge held a surprise
tribute in the Olympic Village before the opening ceremony. And his speech at
the Guildhall went farther than usual. "We are all here today because we share a
duty to those innocent victims and to history to make sure the lessons of 1972
are never forgotten," he said.

But Israel and the athletes' families want more. "They were killed on Olympic
soil and the appropriate place to remember them is at the opening ceremony,"
said Ilana Romano, whose husband, Yossef, a weightlifter, died.

United Utates

Alexandra Frean, Washington

The battle between the United States and China for the most Olympic medals may
not be settled until the closing events of the Games, but for some it is being
watched as closely as the individual events.

"While this new rivalry will never reach the heights of the US-Soviet Union
during the Cold War, Beijing and Washington will be sparring for Olympic
supremacy for years to come," Robert D. Cobb noted on the sports blog,
RantSports.com.

He added that the rivalry between the two superpowers was more than just about
medals. "It's a classic clash of East versus West, capitalism against communism
and the world's reigning superpower in the United States against the world's
largest economic monolith in China," he wrote.

The US Olympic Committee has said that its goal is to finish top of the medal
count but has not specified its target number of medals. While China led 64-63
before yesterday's action, the US has plenty of opportunities to pull ahead in a
second week dominated by athletics, in which they are traditionally stronger
than China.

Most of the American media usually goes with the total medal count, not the
number of golds, as determining the overall winners. On this basis, the US have
won the medal count at each of the last four Summer Olympics. In Beijing,
China's 51 gold medals outshone the 36 won by the US, but the US won 110 medals
in total, ten more than China.

Italy

The drug shame of Alex Schwazer, the 50-kilometres walk champion, overshadowed
the joy of a further three Olympic medals in the country's press yesterday
(Philip Willan, in Rome, writes).

Schwazer was a gold medal-winner at the Olympic Games in Beijing, the boyfriend
of Carolina Kostner, the glamorous world champion figure skater and the man
whose clean-cut features were chosen to promote wholesome children's snacks on
television.

Il Messaggero, the Rome daily, headlined its comment on the news that Schwazer
had been banned from participating in the Games for using the illegal
blood-booster erythropoietin (EPO) with the words "Betrayed by the good guy". As
well as consuming healthy milk in the ads, he was also taking EPO, "Which is a
lot less good for your health," the paper said.

Milan's Corriere della Sera blamed the scandal on Schwazer's inability to accept
his limitations and the effects of the passage of time on his performance. "We
may win lots more medals, but unfortunately the Schwazer case will remain like a
scarlet letter on the Italian expedition to London 2012," it said.

Argentina

Newspapers lauded the performance of the country's basketball team against a
United States "Dream Team" of top professionals who are hot favourites to secure
the Olympic gold medal (Martin Roberts writes).

Argentina, who beat the US and went on to win a shock Olympic gold in 2004,
moved to within a point of the Americans at the interval, but lost the
group-stage match 126-97 in an ill-tempered affair on Monday. "The team went out
to have fun and put on a memorable show in those 20 minutes against a United
States team that wavered . . . and even sank to some dirty tricks," Clarín, the
daily newspaper, said.

The Argentina team, it said, were backed by chanting fans whose support riled
the US. Of the US comeback, Luis Scola, the Argentina player, said: "It's very
hard to beat the United States if they put 60 points past you in one period, and
impossible to go to 120 points with them."

Saudi Arabia

The father of Wodjan Shahrkhani, Saudi Arabia's first female Olympian, has taken
legal action against Twitter "trolls" who insulted his daughter for taking part
in the Games (Hugh Tomlinson writes).

Despite being defeated in only 1min 22sec in her first-round judo match,
Shahrkhani, 16, was given a standing ovation after becoming the first woman to
compete at the Olympics for the ultra-conservative kingdom. However, her
participation at the Games, along with compatriot Sarah Attar, the 800 metres
runner, has ignited a row on Twitter. The two women were denounced as
"prostitutes" by conservatives at home.

Ali Seraj Shahrkhani defended his daughter yesterday, telling the Saudi
newspaper Al-Sharq that he has made a formal complaint to the Saudi Government
about the abuse and hired a lawyer to sue the Twitter users who insulted her.

Japan

Before Saturday, Japan were one place above Britain in the medals table. Now
they are languishing in nineteenth place, although they would be fifth on total
medals won (Lucy Alexander, in Tokyo, writes).

But The Japan Times could not help but become sentimental at the sight of
"hundreds of British flags proudly waving through the gentle night breeze",
before describing in syrupy tones the "stirring moment" shared by Jessica Ennis
and "Lord Sebastian Coe" as he presented her medal: "No words needed to be
uttered between them, they understood they were sharing history . . ."

The Japan football teams have kept interest alive well into the second week. The
men's team have amazed the public by reaching their first semi-final since 1968
and briefly led Mexico in yesterday's match before losing 3-1.

The women are already guaranteed silver and an upgrade to business class on the
flight home.

India

Saina Nehwal, the pride of India after she won a badminton bronze medal,
returned to her native Hyderabad to celebrate her achievement (Francis Elliott,
in Delhi, writes).

However, the bus sent to fetch her from the airport for a victory tour broke
down shortly after picking her up yesterday. The bus, decked in the Indian
tricolour, was unable to cope with the number of wellwishers who had climbed
aboard, some on to the roof, and broke down before leaving the airport.
Undaunted, Nehwal continued the tour first on foot and then by car.

Previously, on arrival in Delhi from London, she told waiting reporters that she
had cried for an hour after losing her semi-final but had been determined to
redeem herself in the run-off for third place against Xin Wang, the Chinese who
pulled out of the game with an injury.

Grenada

Residents of a fishing village on this small Caribbean island were preparing for
a giant party yesterday in honour of the gangly teenager who has won Grenada's
first Olympic gold (Will Pavia writes).

Kirani James's victory in the men's 400 metres prompted wild celebrations. "It
was pandemonium," George Grant, 60, a local radio presenter, said. "Everybody
started honking their horns, people took to the streets, parties started. It
still hasn't subsided."

Tillman Thomas, the island's Prime Minister, had been among the crowds who
gathered before a big screen at Cuthbert Peters Park in James's home village of
Gouyave to watch the race. "There was a street carnival afterwards," said Laurie
Glean, 59, proprietor of Kelly's Hot Spot, a local restaurant. "They went past
midnight last night, they had DJs and bands in the streets".

Yesterday a public holiday was declared and more street parties were being
planned.

Spain

Walter Oppenheimer, of El País, writes about the Olympic Park: "There are two
types of building that have nothing to do with the official schedule, but in
front of which hundreds form queues. The one outside the London 2012 souvenir
shop is miles long. A fetishist knows an item picked up in the West End is not
the same as one bought on the Olympic premises.

"But perhaps the most eye-catching queues are outside McDonald's. They dish up
the same junk food as any other McDonald's, but what those queueing really want
is to be able to say they have been to the world's biggest."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               Coventry Telegraph

                            August 25, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MACHETE GANG'S KIDNAP TERROR;
Victim bundled into van and attacked after car chase Police at thethrough city
Clarence pub, in Avenue North Martin Bagot ; EXCLUSIVE Machete gang kidnap
victim

BYLINE: Martin Bagot

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 393 words


A MACHETE-wielding gang dragged a man into a van on a Coventry pub car park
before driving off with him.

West Midlands Police's gangs and organised crime unit is appealing for witnesses
after the kidnapping which resulted in a serious assault.

The 29-year-old was dragged from his dark red Toyota and bundled in to a van at
the Old Clarence in Earlsdon Avenue North, next to Hearsall Common.

The abduction followed a dramatic car chase at 8.30pm on Thursday in which the
victim was pursued by the gang.

Shocked drinkers in the pub's beer garden called police after the vehicles
screeched on to the car park. Firearms squads were immediately scrambled to hunt
down the van after it drove off. It is believed the kidnapped man has since been
found and questioned by police. West Midlands Police would not reveal details of
his injuries. CID cordoned off part of the car park and took the Toyota away for
further forensic examinations. Sharon Turner, manager of the Old Clarence, said:
"I was upstairs having my hair done at the time. It was horrible. "They have
just driven on to my car park, it was a car and a van. Some guys jumped out of
the van with a machete.

"They've dragged the other guy out of the car, thrown him in to the back of the
van and driven off with him." Ms Turner stressed the incident had nothing to do
with the pub. She added: "It was a real shock. "Someone got the number plate of
the van. The police cordoned off the car park and towed the car away for
forensics." It is believed some time after he was kidnapped, the man was
subjected to the serious assault. Officers called door-to-door in the adjoining
Coniston Road, Earlsdon, to ask if residents had seen anything while five police
cars remained stationed at the scene.

The car park remained cordoned off until after 11.30pm when the Toyota was
lifted on to a removal lorry and taken away for forensics. A police patrol car
remained there overnight. The car park was reopened yesterday morning. West
Midlands Police refused to release any further details of what it said was an
"ongoing investigation". Det Insp Paul Joyce said in a statement: "I can confirm
police are investigating a serious assault on a 29-yearold man in the pub car
park of the Old Clarence, in Coventry. "We would appeal for any witnesses or
anyone with information to come forward and contact police by calling 101."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KIDNAP DRAMA: Police at the rear of the Old Clarence pub, in Earlsdon
Avenue North Picture: Martin Bagot
SNATCHED: The car park of the Old Clarence where a man was kidnapped by a gang
wielding machetes late on Thursday night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CVT


                   Copyright 2012 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                August 25, 2012
                                 First Edition

Breivik given maximum 21 years for terror attacks;
NORWAY

BYLINE: Tony Paterson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 342 words


Mass murderer Anders Behring Breivik said yesterday he regretted "not killing
more" in his twin terrorist attacks last year, after an Oslo court declared him
sane and convicted him for the slaughter of 77 people in the worst act of
violence in Norway since the Second World War.

Judges rejected the views of one group of psychiatrists, which held that the
33-year-old far-right fanatic was psychotic when he detonated a bomb in central
Oslo, killing eight people, and shot dead 69 others, mostly teenagers, attending
a political summer camp in July last year. They sided with a second team which
concluded that Breivik is sane. He was found guilty of terrorism and
premeditated murder. Sentencing him to a maximum of 21 years in jail, with a
minimum term of 10 years, the judges were unanimous in their verdict that he was
mentally fit and bore full responsibility for his attacks. Breivik could spend
the rest of his life in jail if at the end of his sentence he is still
considered a threat to society. The judges said Breivik's admission that his
claims to be a member of a non-existent "Knights Templar" organisation were
"pompous" had provided conclusive proof of his sanity. Dressed in a dark suit,
Breivik gave his habitual clenched fist salute on his arrival in court. When the
verdict was read out, he was unable to suppress a smirk of satisfaction; he had
insisted during his trial that to be declared insane "would be a fate worse than
death".

Yesterday's verdict was the final day of a traumatic trial which opened in
April. Per Balch Soerensen, whose teenage daughter was shot dead by Breivik
while attending the Norwegian Labour Party summer camp on Utoya island, welcomed
the verdict.

"Now we won't hear about him for quite a while. Now we can have peace and
quiet," he said.

Breivik will serve his sentence in the Ila prison in Oslo. He can use a computer
but has no internet access.

Reading from a prepared statement, Breivik told the crowded Oslo court that he
would not appeal against the judgment "because this would legitimise the court".

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2012 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                August 25, 2012
                                 First Edition

Norway set an example in its response to a terrorist attack;
Comment

BYLINE: Owen Jones

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 146 words


Norwegian leader, Jens Stoltenberg, immediately after the horror? "The Norwegian
response to violence is more democracy, more openness and greater political
participation," he said.

That is not to be complacent. Once Europe was riddled with the poison of
anti-Semitism; now there is a virtual pandemic of Islamophobia on the continent.
Whether it be the English Defence League marching on our streets, or the French
National Front's record score in April's presidential elections, the hatred is
deep, profound and alarming.

Anders Behring Breivik's sentence sums up Norway's approach to a terrorist
attack that may well have destabilised other nations.

Others capitulate to terrorism by becoming more authoritarian, intolerant,
repressive societies: their politicians pass laws clamping down on civil
liberties. Would a British Prime Minister strike the same note of defiance as
the

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2012 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                Luton On Sunday

                                August 28, 2012

Ex-Bedfordshire fraudster guilty of funding terrorist attack

LENGTH: 500  words


Nasserdine Menni



A formerâ€ˆBedfordshire resident who was found guilty of funding terrorism
following a suicide bombing in Stockholm has been jailed for seven years.

Algerian national Nasserdine Menni, who used to live in Luton, was convicted of
transferring money to Taimour Abdulwahab, who later blew himself up in the
Swedish capital on December 11, 2010.

The pair are believed to have met during Menni's five-year stay in the town
before his move to Glasglow in 2009.

He sent a total of £5,725 between January 2005 and December 2010 to a bank
account in Abdulwahab's name in the knowledge that it could be used for
terrorism purposes.

Menni is also believed to have plotted in Bedford about the attack.

He was also convicted of immigration and benefit fraud.

However, he was cleared of a charge which alleged he conspired to murder members
of the Swedish public when a jury found it not proven after a 12-week trial at
the High Court in Glasgow.

At the same court yesterday Judge Lord Matthews jailed Menni for seven years.

There was a heavy police presence at the court, where the judge told Menni:
"Funding provides assistance for those who would carry out terrorist acts.

"The sentencing of the court must reflect the potential use."

The court heard that Menni intends to appeal against his conviction.

His defence counsel, William Taylor QC, said immigration authorities had
notified his client that they would attempt to have him expelled from the UK.

Abdulwahab rigged an Audi car with explosives in the hope that the blast would
drive people to Drottninggatan, a busy shopping street about 200 yards away,
where he was waiting to set off two more devices strapped to his chest and back.

The car bomb never went off and, after setting fire to the Audi, he was unable
to detonate the other two explosives as planned.

He made his way down a side street off Drottninggatan and, in an apparent
attempt to fix the faulty trigger up his sleeve, set off the bomb on the front
of his body, killing only himself.

Menni transferred the money to Abdulwahab between January 2005 and December
2010.

He moved to Glasgow in 2009 after living in Luton, where he is believed to have
first met Abdulwahab, for five years.

He was a bogus Kuwaiti asylum seeker and claimed he was escaping persecution.

He worked in bars and restaurants around the city and lived at an asylum
seekers' hostel in Curle Street.

He obtained a false French passport and identity documents to open a bank
account and later claimed benefits he was not entitled to.

Police swooped on him in February last year following three months of constant
surveillance in which they established contact between him and Abdulwahab.

Lord Matthews sentenced Menni to a total of 30 months for the benefit and
immigration charges. This will run concurrently with the seven-year sentence,
backdated to March last year when he entered custody.

Detective Chief Superintendent John Cuddihy, from Strathclyde Police, said
Menni's arrest was a 'severe blow to terrorism'.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Luton


                    Copyright 2012 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            August 28, 2012 Tuesday

Premier apologises to MPs over terror attack failings'

LENGTH: 169  words


NorwAY'S premier Jens Stoltenberg has apologised for flaws in the response to
last year's bomb and gun rampage by right-wing extremist Anders Behring Breivik,
jailed for 21 years last week for killing 77 people.

Mr Stoltenberg pledged to improve preparedness to fight terrorism and told
parliament he would establish a new emergency response centre, improve
co-operation between rescue teams and flows of information. His address to MPs
came after a 500-page report by a government-appoined commission highlighted
lack of preparedness and police blunders, which allowed Breivik to kill eight
people in a bomb attack in central Oslo then gun down 69 on the island of Utoeya
on 22 July, 2011.

Norway's justice minister and police chief resigned in the aftermath, and some
critics called on Mr Stoltenberg to step down.

Yesterday, Mr Stoltenberg  conceded mistakes had been made, saying: "For this I
apologise." He added: "We can never correct past mistakes, but we can learn from
them to create a more secure future."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday

Syrian army repels "terrorist attack" on military airport in Idlib

LENGTH: 226 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

[Official Military Source: Army Members Bravely Repel Terrorist Attack on
Taftanaz Military Airport in Idlib" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, 29 Aug (SANA) - Taftanaz Military Airport in the province of Idlib
early Wednesday [29 August] came under a terrorist attack that was carried out
by large numbers of armed terrorist gangs, an official military source said on
Wednesday.

The source added that the army members bravely repelled the terrorist attack on
the military airport inflicting heavy losses upon the terrorists who fell dead
or injured, while a number of them fled away.

No losses were caused to the equipment or the army members during the clashes
except for slight injury to two army personnel, the source affirmed.

"This attack comes in the framework of the frenzied war waged by Syria's enemies
on the country to undermine the veneration of our ideologized army and affect
the morale of its brave members who are pounding the remnant of the fleeing
hired gangs," the source said.

It applauded the residents of Taftanaz area for their cooperation in thwarting
the attack and enabling the army members to inflict the heaviest losses upon the
terrorists' ranks through informing about the gunmen's locations and movements.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 29 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday

Army confronts "terrorist attack" on military airport - Syrian TV

LENGTH: 92 words


Damascus-based Syrian Satellite Channel Television in Arabic at 1105 GMT on 29
August carries the following "breaking news" screen caption:

"Official military source: Our brave fighters confronted a terrorist attack,
which was carried out by large numbers of armed terrorist groups against the
Taftanaz Military Airport in Idlib, killing or wounding most of the terrorists.
There were no losses in the equipment or soldiers, however, two brave soldiers
sustained minor injuries."

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 1105 gmt 29 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                           August 29, 2012 Wednesday

Appeal verdict due on only Pakistani terrorist to emerge alive from the 2008
Mumbai attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 133 words


India: Supreme Court scheduled to deliver its verdict on Pakistani terrorist
Ajmal Kasab's plea against his death sentence. Kasab, the only terrorist caught
alive during the Mumbai terror attacks on 26 Nov 2008, had appealed for his
death sentence to be commuted to life imprisonment in Feb this year. A trial
court had sentenced the 24-year-old to death in May 2010, an order which was
later upheld by the Bombay High Court in Oct last year. Kasab's defence lawyer
had told the bench that he was not part of the larger conspiracy for waging war
against the nation.
 166 people were killed in the attacks when 10 Pakistani terrorists sailed from
Karachi to Mumbai. While Kasab was captured, all the others were killed during
counter-terror operations

Event Start Date: 2012-08-29

Event End Date: 2012-08-29

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2012 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     August 29, 2012 Wednesday 7:33 AM GMT

India clears the way for terrorist to be executed for Mumbai attacks;
India's Supreme Court has cleared the way for Ajmal Kasab, the last surviving
member of the Pakistani terrorist gang which killed 166 people in the 2008
Mumbai attacks, to be executed.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson in New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 236 words


Kasab, who was one of 10 'fidayeen' commandos trained by Pakistan's
Lashkar-e-Toiba terrorist group, had claimed he had not received a fair trail
and appealed for his death penalty to be commuted to life imprisonment.

The attack brought New Delhi and Islamabad to the brink of war after India's
prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh accused elements of Pakistan's security
services of supporting the plot. Kasab's lawyer however had told the court he
had not been part of a broader conspiracy against India.

The decision was eagerly anticipated by commentators who voiced their support
for a speedy execution. "Today is Kasab's verdict day! Let's hope he gets the
death sentence and is done away with! Am tired seeing him have tax-payer's
biryani," said Suhel Seth.

His comment reflected resentment in India over the £2 million the government has
paid to date to keep in in a high security cell in Mumbai's Arthur Road jail.

In their verdict, two Supreme Court judges rejected his appeal and said: "We are
left with no option but to award death penalty....The primary and foremost
offence committed by Kasab is waging war against the government of India."

Prosecutors now expect Kasab, 25, to appeal to India's president for clemency.
Few prisoners are executed in India and many have their sentences commuted. The
country has a severe shortage of hangmen and is especially cautious in cases
which could inflame communal conflicts.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 30, 2012 Thursday

Algerian military kills three "terrorists" in separate attacks

LENGTH: 142 words


The Algerian army has killed three "terrorists" in two separate attacks in the
east of Algiers, the Internet site of the privately-owned, French-language daily
newspaper El Watan reported on 19 August.

Quoting well-informed sources, the paper said that one of the three had been
killed in an ambush in Ain El Hamra, in Boumerdes Province, some 65 km east of
Algiers. The two others where shot dead in Ammal, also in Boumerdes Province.

Three Kalashnikov rifles and an automatic pistol were seized, the paper added.

El Watan said that these operations follow the surrender to the authorities of a
member of the Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb (AQLIM) who joined
its ranks in the 2000s.

The paper also said that 30 armed Islamists had been killed during the current
year in the same region.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 30 Aug 12

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 30, 2012 Thursday 6:25 AM GMT

Guantánamo Bay terror suspect charged with plotting to attack oil tankers in
Strait of Hormuz;
A terror suspect being held at Guantánamo Bay has been charged with training for
al-Qaeda and plotting to attack oil tankers in the Strait of Hormuz and off
Yemen's coast.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 396 words


Ahmed Mohammed Ahmed Haza al-Darbi, 37, has spent the last decade at the US
naval base in southern Cuba where 168 "war on terror" prisoners remain. He faces
life in prison if convicted.

"Mr al-Darbi's alleged crimes are serious violations of the law of war that were
committed to terrorise and wreak havoc on the world economy," the chief war
crimes prosecutor at Guantánamo, Brigadier General Mark Martins, said in a
statement.

"We will be prepared to proceed toward his trial by reformed military commission
if the Convening Authority refers charges."

Before Darbi can be arraigned, the charges must first be reviewed and approved
by a legal official who is in charge of the military tribunals at Guantánamo.

The six charges before Darbi including aiding and abetting terrorism, attacks on
civilian targets and attacks on a vessel, as well as aiding the enemy.

According to US military prosecutors, Darbi joined al-Qaeda around 1997,
attending a training camp in Afghanistan and serving as a weapons instructor at
a separate camp in the country. He also met the group's late leader Osama bin
Laden.

He allegedly participated in a plot to bomb civilian oil tankers in the Strait
of Hormuz, through which about a fifth of the world's traded oil passes, and off
the coast of Yemen from 2000 to 2002, by receiving large amounts of money from
al-Qaeda and training potential attack operatives.

Prosecutors accuse Darbi of namely participating in the 2002 attack against the
MV Limburg, a French oil tanker, that killed a Bulgarian sailor, severely
injured multiple civilians and caused a large oil spill in the Gulf of Aden.

Darbi is the eighth detainee to be sent before a special military tribunal since
President Barack Obama took office in 2009. He is married to a sister of Khalid
al-Mihdhar, one of the hijackers who crashed Flight 77 into the Pentagon on
September 11, 2001.

If Darbi pleads guilty and co-operates with the US authorities, as Pakistani
detainee Majid Khan did in February, his testimony could be useful in the trial
against fellow Saudi prisoner Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri.

Nashiri faces the death penalty for accusations he masterminded the MV Limburg
attack and the 2000 attack against the USS Cole in Yemen that left 17 dead.

The five people accused of planning and executing the 9/11 attacks are being
tried at the special tribunal as well.

Source: agencies

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             August 31, 2012 Friday

VICTORY OVER 7/7 TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Geoff Teather, Benedict Moore-bridger, Mark Blunden And Miranda Bryant

SECTION: FRON; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 844 words


LONDON 7/7 survivor Martine Wright today completed her inspirational journey to
the Paralympics - and said it was a victory for every victim of the terror
attacks.

The star of the sitting volleyball team was hailed as the true heroine of the
Games as she wheeled herself onto court, wearing a No 7 vest, and blew kisses to
the crowd.

It is five years, three weeks and three days since the July 7 bomb that claimed
52 lives and cost Wright her legs. Today, with tears in her eyes, she waved to
her three-year-old son Oscar in the audience and said: "It was absolutely
amazing to get to compete in front of my family and friends. This is a dream
come true and a dream I did not have before July 7.

"I will never ever forget that day and never ever forget how many people lost
their lives - the families who are living that every single day of their lives.
I'm doing this for me but I'm also doing it for anyone who has been through
something

traumatic in their life." Wright, 39, was sitting just 6ft from bomber Shezhad
Tanweer on the train between Liverpool Street and Aldgate when he detonated his
explosives in 2005.

She lost three-quarters of her blood and spent two weeks in an induced coma
before having 12 operations to amputate both legs above the knee.

Today, as she played as a substitute during a match against Ukraine, she
completed a journey that began as a bid to recover from her horrific injuries
while watching the 2008 Beijing Paralympics. She was watched in the stands by
her family and Liz Kenworthy, the off-duty police constable who helped to save
her life on July 7.

Also in the crowd was Mayor Boris Johnson, who had Carry On and EastEnders
actress Barbara Windsor as his guest. As soon as Wright came on court today she
hit a brilliant shot - but the final score was 3-0 to Ukraine, who won 25-9,
25-20, 25-14.

About 20 family and friends of the 7/7 survivor were in the auditorium and GB
fans raised the roof as she came on to the court.

Her first involvement in the hard-fought game was to help win the thrilling
point for the team, sending the crowd into raptures.

Despite the final tally, it was the symbolism of her appearance on court that
counted

When she went for rehabilitation, Britain's sitting volleyball team happened to
be training nearby.

She has now been an international player since 2010 and has claimed more than 40
caps.

As well as the ardent GB fans in the Excel Arena cheering her on, Wright was
also being supported by husband Nick Wiltshire and son Oscar, who left their
home in Tring at 5am to ensure they were not late for the match.

Sports-mad Wright admitted that her "brilliant" family and friends had helped
her through her ordeal, adding: "I saw my son waving a big banner. That is now
imprinted in my head."

But she said she believed that "fate" had led her to the Paralympics, saying:
"The day before the bombs went off was the day that London announced it had won
the Olympic bid.

"All I kept thinking was, 'How am I going to get tickets?' Then, in a weird
twist of fate, the bombing happened that day - and seven years on I'm going to
the Paralympics."

She added: "I knew I wanted to do something as a result of losing my legs.
Sitting volleyball made me realise that I could either feel sorry for myself for
the rest of my life or I could just get on and do it.

"This is a unique, fast-paced game. You're not sitting still for one second.

"I knew I wanted to do something as a result of losing my legs, otherwise for me
to have been on the Tube that day would have been a waste of time.

"It really helped me in my recovery. It got me out with like-minded girls who
had gone through something in their lives, it shared experiences.

"It made me realise that I could either feel sorry for myself for the rest of my
life or I could just get on and do it.

"I have a choice to live my life whatever it may hold - and 52 people that day
didn't have a choice. I will never ever forget that day. I just want to make
everyone proud."

Mr Johnson and Ms Windsor later took to the court for an impromptu game at the
end of the match. The actress said: "That was really, really fantastic." Mr
Johnson said it had been "inspiring" to see Wright play. He added: "It was
terrific to watch her in action and as soon as she came on the team started to
play better.

"Purists often say that you should concentrate on the athletes and the sport and
nothing about the back-story, but you can't help but be amazed at what she has
had to overcome. It is inspiring."

Wright's friend Sandy Warden, 49, from Tring, said it had been great to see the
player in action.

She said: "It was fantastic. We are all very proud of her."

Describing her recovery, Wright revealed that she began with small steps on
prosthetic legs.

She fell down. But she got back up, again and again. She said: "When you go
through something traumatic in your life you sometimes lose who you are.

"You're thrown in this completely new world.

"When it happened to me, it didn't sort of happen overnight, suddenly, an
epiphany - 'Right. I can live my life now'. It's a very gradual process."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               Hucknall Dispatch

                             August 31, 2012 Friday

Main heading: AXE ATTACK TERROR or AXE ATTACK ON MUM WITH BABY Sec: Ex-soldier
hit woman while she held their baby or Ex-soldier said: You're going to die'

LENGTH: 416  words


A FORMER soldier from Hucknall has been jailed for a terrifying' axe attack on
his partner while she was holding their baby daughter.

Richard Timmins (42), of Annesley Road was suffering from post-traumatic stress
syndrome when he subjected the woman to a prolonged ordeal which left her
shaking with fear, Derby Crown Court heard.

n PLEASE TURN TO PAGE 2.

He was said to have punched and butted his partner in her home and the attack
continued for more than an hour, during which he told her: "You are going to die
tonight."

Alex Wolfsen (prosecuting) said Timmins went to his partner's home in the
Derbyshire village of Tansley on Monday December 12 last year and the pair
started to argue.

Timmins, who had drunk half a bottle of Jack Daniels bourbon and more than a
bottle of wine, grabbed the woman by the throat.

She pushed him away but he seized her again by the neck while she was holding
their one-year-old daughter.

The victim pushed him off but he went downstairs, returned with an axe and hit
her on the head, causing her to see stars'.

He then asked his partner: "How long do you want with our daughter before I kill
you?"

The woman managed to break free and phoned a friend, who calmed Timmins down
when he arrived and then drove him back to his home.

Mr Wolfsen said the woman suffered three lumps to her head, a swollen forehead,
bite marks and a bruise to her thigh.

Timmins was arrested the next day and admitted that the argument occurred, but
he claimed that he could not remember the attack.

Judge David Pugsley jailed Timmins for seven months for assaulting his partner
and one month, to run concurrently, for causing criminal damage to a bed. He
pleaded guilty to both offences.

Adam Watkins (defending), said his client was drunk at the time of the offences
and behaved in a jealous and irrational way.

"My client suffered post-traumatic stress from his experiences in the Army and
this attack resulted from him having too much to drink," Mr Watkins added.

Mr Wolfsen said the conclusion of an independent assessment was that Timmins had
been suffering from the stress condition.

But it was not revealed in court which regiment Timmins had served with and
where he saw action while in the Army.

Passing sentence, the judge told Timmins: "People who subject a woman to that
degree of violence involving an axe and make these sort of threats to the mother
of your baby deserve to be locked away.

"It was a sustained and prolonged assault that fortunately left her only with
minor injuries."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NHUD


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           September 1, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gran has heart attack after gang raid terror

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 56 words


A GRANDMOTHER held at knifepoint by a gang of men is fighting for her life after
suffering a massive heart attack. The Post reported on the robbery earlier this
week, before Balwinder Dhami, 69, became ill. Her son Harnack Dhami said: "She
is knocking on death's door at the moment; we don't know whether she's going to
survive." Page 7

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In hospital: Balwinder Dhami.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2012 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                            September 2, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A mother let out a war cry and then the herd attacked - Steven Mitchell
yesterday;
TERROR AS 300 ANIMALS GO ON RAMPAGE ; Farmer survives being dragged across field
in buffalo stampede

BYLINE: Jamie Beatson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 484 words


A farmer cheated death after being gored when his herd of 300 water buffalo
stampeded.

Steven Mitchell, 30, was badly hurt when the animals turned on him.

The herd dragged him 50 metres across a field and through a pond, leaving him
bruised, bleeding and with puncture wounds on his lower body.

He said a photographer - who was taking pictures of him and the herd for an art
gallery - saved his life by driving his pick-up truck across the field and
blaring the horn to scatter the herd.

Speaking from his hospital bed last night, Steven, who runs The Buffalo Farm at
Auchtertool, near Kirkcaldy, Fife, said: "I was doing a favour for the lady from
the Fife Council art gallery.

"They were launching a picture competition and they asked me to do a picture
with the buffalo herd.

"I was about five metres from the herd and all was going very well. I knelt down
in front of them, then one jumped out and attacked me. '' II"It was a mother and
she let out a war cry because I think she thought I was a threat to the calves
in the field, and then the whole herd attacked me.

"They circled around and started goring me to protect the young. I tried to play
dead thinking they would stop.

"But they dragged me 50 metres across the field and towards a pond. I thought
this was it because then they would drown me but they dragged me out the other
side. My clothes were ripped off, they punctured my body. I was a total mess.
But I'm lucky to be alive because the photographer and another lady from the
Fife galleries and museums ran back to my pick-up, which had the keys in.

"They managed to drive it across the field with the horn blaring and that
dispersed the herd."

Steve, who once crashed his 4x4 into one driven by celebrity chef Gordon Ramsay
during filming for the star's Channel 4 show The F Word, has been a buffalo
farmer for eight years.

Following the attack, he underwent an op at Victoria Hospital in Kirkcaldy. He
faces further surgery today for skin grafts to the injuries he sustained on his
calf, bottom and right thigh.

But he said: "I blame myself for what happened - there were a lot of young
calves and a lot of cows.

"I would normally never turn my back on the herd and would see them coming but I
stupidly did it.

"Credit to the photographer who without a doubt saved my life. Without their
presence of mind, I would have struggled to escape.

"I also want to thank the hospital staff."

but '' Steven doesn't know how long his recovery will take but said he has no
fear going back to work with the herd with whom he has a "huge bond". He added:
"I won't have any problem with it, although I may be a bit more cautious. "They
aren't bad animals, they were just acting on their natural instinct to protect
their young."

Fife Council's Dorothy Browse said: "This has been a most unfortunate incident
and we wish Mr Mitchell all the best for a speedy recovery."

I was in a total mess but I am lucky to be alive ''

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SURGERY Steven was treated at the Victoria Hospital in Kirkcaldy
AT WORK Steven Mitchell

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


             Copyright 2012 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 3, 2012 Monday 11:41 PM GMT

Terror figure killed in gun attack

SECTION: REPUBLIC OF IRELAND

LENGTH: 207 words


A leading terror figure has been killed and an associate injured in a
gangland-style gun attack in north Dublin.

The victim, named locally as Alan Ryan, has several previous convictions and is
known by detectives for his links with the Real IRA (RIRA).

The 32-year-old was notorious for racketeering - extorting cash from drug
dealers and businessmen across the city and demanding protection money from
firms.

He was previously convicted of taking part in a RIRA weapons training camp in
Meath in 2001 and served time for possession of a firearm in a separate
incident.

A Garda source said: "He was very dangerous. He won't be missed. Anyone could
have done this. Even one of his own."

The daylight shooting happened in the Grange Lodge estate in Clongriffin.

Ryan was shot in the head near his home and was rushed to Beaumont hospital,
where he was pronounced dead. The second man was shot in the leg.

A burnt-out car was discovered a short time later on Hole in the Wall Road and
both scenes have been sealed off pending a forensic technical examination.

Gardai have appealed for witnesses to come forward.

Ryan was due to go on trial - along with three other men - for threatening a
city-centre publican and making him cease trading within 24 hours.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                              PA Newswire: Ireland

                      September 3, 2012 Monday 6:45 PM BST

TERROR FIGURE KILLED IN GUN ATTACK

BYLINE: Sarah Stack, Press Association

SECTION: PA Newswire: Ireland

LENGTH: 464 words


A leading terror figure has been killed and an associate injured in a
gangland-style gun attack in north Dublin.

The victim, named locally as Alan Ryan, has several previous convictions and is
known by detectives for his links with the Real IRA (RIRA).

The 32-year-old was notorious for racketeering - extorting cash from drug
dealers and businessmen across the city and demanding protection money from
firms.

He was previously convicted of taking part in a RIRA weapons training camp in
Meath in 2001 and served time for possession of a firearm in a separate
incident.

A Garda source said: ``He was very dangerous. He won't be missed. Anyone could
have done this. Even one of his own.''

The daylight shooting happened in the Grange Lodge estate in Clongriffin at
about 3.30pm.

Ryan was shot in the head near his home and was rushed to Beaumont hospital,
where he was pronounced dead.

The second man was shot in the leg.

A burnt-out car was discovered a short time later on Hole in the Wall Road and
both scenes have been sealed off pending a forensic technical examination.

Gardai have appealed for witnesses to come forward.

Ryan was due to go on trial - along with three other men - for threatening a
city-centre publican and making him cease trading within 24 hours.

Pub owner John Stokes, father of Celtic star Anthony Stokes, was also charged
over allegations he threatened a business rival.

Stokes had also been ordered to remove a massive 40ft banner barring the Queen
from his pub, the Players Lounge in Fairview.

The men were brought before the court just days before Queen Elizabeth's
historic visit to Ireland last year and released on bail.

Ryan, who had attended several anti-royal protests ahead of the visit, was kept
under surveillance throughout the landmark trip and spotted driving around
Dublin city as the British monarch carried out engagements.

He was previously quizzed about the murder of Sean Winters, who was shot dead
near Portmarnock DART station in September 2010.

It is believed Winters was shot by a Real IRA terror gang waging war with crime
gangs in Dublin - a gang detectives view as criminal rather than political.

It is understood criminals had tried to take out some of Ryan's gang members two
months earlier during a shooting at the Players Lounge but three innocent people
- a doorman and two customers - were shot instead.

The 32-year-old dead man had several previous convictions and was known by
detectives for his links with the Real IRA.

He extorted cash from drug dealers and businessmen across the city, and demanded
protection money from firms.

He was also due to go on trial, with three other men, accused of threatening a
city centre publican and making him cease trading within 24 hours.

``He was very dangerous,'' said a Garda source.

``He won't be missed.''

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2012 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 3, 2012 Monday 8:30 PM GMT

Syria and Iran 'backing Kurdish terrorist group', says Turkey;
Turkey has accused Syria and Iran of backing Kurdish terrorist attacks on
military outposts in the south-east of the country that left 30 dead.

BYLINE: By Damien McElroy Sherween, Aleppo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 783 words


Kurdish-dominated provinces in Turkey have been swept by an upsurge in attacks
by the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) in recent weeks.

Fighting has spiked since the group gained control of dozens of villages across
northern Syria this summer, when the regime concentrated its forces on Aleppo.

Ten soldiers and twenty PKK fighters were reported killed yesterday in overnight
clashes in the town of Beytussebap in the Sirnak province of Turkey. It was the
largest of four separate PKK attacks near the Syrian border.

In a separate incident, a suspected suicide bomber was shot dead by the security
forces near Sanliurfa city.

The PKK has been at war with Ankara for thirty years and the conflict has
claimed 45,000 lives. But recent fighting has been the worst for more than a
decade and Turkish leaders have pointed the finger directly at President Bashar
al-Assad.

"It's known that the PKK works arm in arm with Syria's intelligence
organisation," said Huseyin Celik, the deputy chairman of Turkey's AK party.
"Assad is inclined to view Turkey's foe, the PKK, as a friend."

Officials said the cross-border element to the attacks can be traced to eastern
Syrian enclaves where the flags of the PKK and its allies have been hoisted to
demonstrate de facto control.

Turkish suspicions of a conspiracy between neighbouring regimes have been
fuelled by a simultaneous PKK offensive in the eastern province of Semdinli,
which borders Iran.

Turkish newspapers last week reported claims that more than 100 Iranian agents
were active in Turkey working on behalf of the PKK.

Meanwhile Syrian regime documents seized by rebels include instructions to
resist the advance of Turkish influence.

Towns such as Afrin, west of Aleppo, and Qamishli, to the east, are controlled
by the PKK and its local offshoot the Kurdish Democratic Union Party (PYD), and
are off-limits to Syrian rebels.

Mohammad Haj Hassan, the most prominent Kurdish commander in the rebel movement
fighting in Aleppo, told The Daily Telegraph the PKK exerts a strong grip on his
fellow Kurds.

"There are no-go places for us because of the PKK's ties to the regime," he
said. "When the rebellion broke out the PKK was given arms and they fought us.
Now they defend the towns they control but don't let us enter. It is one of the
greatest problems for the revolution."

With a large ethnic Turkish population residing cheek-by-jowl with the Kurds,
northern Syria is pockmarked with potential flashpoints.

Hisham Mousa, a Turkmen farmer from the town of Jaqala, said threats from the
PKK in Doudian, the next-door village, had forced some of his neighbours to
flee.

"We have very little to do with Doudian. They have their ways and we have ours,"
he said. "But now they are under the control of the PKK and very threatening to
those of us who have joined the revolution.

"Some of the people have gone away because they fear there will be fighting."

Mr Hassan, a schoolteacher turned warlord, said the PKK's strong organisation in
the area made it difficult for local moderates to stand up against its cadres.

"Assad has been cultivating the PKK since the 1980s to provide just this level
of protection for his regime," he said. "It is a card for Damascus and they are
playing it against us and Turkey at the same time."

Syrian rebels fear their uprising has been exploited by the PKK to ship weapons
and explosives across the border. Rebels in Aazaz on the Turkish border said
they had set up checkpoints to screen traffic in the days leading up to a
car-bomb attack last month in Gaziantep that killed ten. "There was a checkpoint
to stop suspicious vehicles just before the attack," said Abu Amir, a local
revolutionary. "However the bomb got through to the city."

Turkish security analysts believe that by unleashing the PKK, Mr Assad has
achieved a tactical victory that makes foreign military intervention on behalf
of the rebels less feasible.

"The idea behind this policy is to create an administration that will be
fundamentally opposed to Turkish domination of that area, or to act as a buffer
zone or deterrent in the case of direct military invasion from Turkey," said
Prof Abbas Vali, at Istanbul's Bogazici University told Zaman newspaper.

Turkey's government had begun a tentative peace process with the PKK, whose
leader Abdullah Ocalan languishes in solitary confinement in a Turkish prison,
before the Syrian crisis erupted.

But with the organisation's return to full-scale guerrilla attacks, hopes for a
settlement that would grant formal autonomy to the country's 14 million Kurds
have been dashed.

"The refugees will one day go home," said one Turkish official. "But the foreign
influence over the PKK means that this problem is here to stay."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 4, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Turkey accuses Assad of aiding Kurdish terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Damien McElroy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 456 words


TURKEY has accused Syria and Iran of backing Kurdish terrorist attacks on
military outposts in the south-east of the country in which 30 people were
killed.

Kurdish-dominated provinces in Turkey have been swept by an upsurge in attacks
by the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) in recent weeks. Fighting has increased
since the group gained control of dozens of villages across northern Syria this
summer, when the regime concentrated its forces on Aleppo.

Ten soldiers and twenty PKK fighters were reported killed yesterday in overnight
clashes in the town of Beytussebap in the Sirnak province of Turkey. It was the
largest of four separate PKK attacks near the Syrian border.

In a separate incident, a suspected suicide bomber was shot dead by the security
forces near Sanliurfa city.

The PKK has been at war with Ankara for 30 years and the conflict has claimed
45,000 lives. But recent fighting has been the worst for more than a decade and
Turkish leaders have pointed the finger directly at President Bashar al-Assad.

"It's known that the PKK works arm in arm with Syria's intelligence
organisation," said Huseyin Celik, the deputy chairman of Turkey's AK party.
"Assad is inclined to view Turkey's foe, the PKK, as a friend."

Officials said the cross-border element to the attacks could be traced to
eastern Syrian enclaves where the flags of the PKK and its allies have been
hoisted to demonstrate de facto control.

Turkish suspicions of a conspiracy between neighbouring regimes have been
fuelled by a simultaneous PKK offensive in the eastern province of Semdinli,
which borders Iran. Turkish newspapers last week reported claims that more than
100 Iranian agents were active in Turkey working on behalf of the PKK.

Meanwhile Syrian regime documents seized by rebels include instructions to
resist the advance of Turkish influence.

Towns such as Afrin, west of Aleppo, and Qamishli, to the east, are controlled
by the PKK and its local offshoot the Kurdish Democratic Union Party (PYD), and
are off-limits to Syrian rebels.

Mohammad Haj Hassan, the most prominent Kurdish commander in the rebel movement
fighting in Aleppo, told The Daily Telegraph that the PKK exerted a strong grip
on his fellow Kurds. "There are no-go places for us because of the PKK's ties to
the regime," he said. "When the rebellion broke out the PKK was given arms and
they fought us. Now they defend the towns they control but don't let us enter.
It is one of the greatest problems for the revolution."

Turkey's government had begun a tentative peace process with the PKK before the
Syrian crisis erupted. But with the organisation's return to guerrilla attacks,
hopes for a settlement that would grant formal autonomy to the country's 14
million Kurds have been dashed.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                    September 5, 2012 Wednesday 5:17 PM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY HAGUE STATEMENT ON ANNIVERSARY OF MUNICH TERRORIST ATTACK

LENGTH: 114 words


LONDON, Sept. 5 -- Foreign and Comonwealth Office issued the following news:

Foreign Secretary William Hague spoke on the 40th anniversary of the terrorist
attack at the Munich Olympic Games.

"The terrorist attack at Munich which cost the lives of 11 innocent Israeli
athletes and officials was a shocking act of evil which betrayed everything the
Olympic movement stands for. On today's sad anniversary we pay tribute to their
memory and reiterate our determination to confront terrorism and stand with the
victims of terrorism wherever it may occur." For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2012 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                   September 5, 2012 Wednesday 10:40 AM  EST

FOREIGN SECRETARY STATEMENT ON ANNIVERSARY OF MUNICH TERRORIST ATTACK

LENGTH: 118 words


LONDON, Sept. 5 -- The United Kingdom Foreign & Commonwealth Office issued the
following press release:

Foreign Secretary William Hague spoke on the 40th anniversary of the terrorist
attack at the Munich Olympic Games.

"The terrorist attack at Munich which cost the lives of 11 innocent Israeli
athletes and officials was a shocking act of evil which betrayed everything the
Olympic movement stands for. On today's sad anniversary we pay tribute to their
memory and reiterate our determination to confront terrorism and stand with the
victims of terrorism wherever it may occur." For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2012 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday

Terror, Mumbai attack trial India's concerns during minster's Pakistan visit

LENGTH: 775 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 5 September: Setting the tone for the foreign minister-level Indo-Pak
talks in Islamabad, India on Wednesday [5 September] made it clear that
terrorism and early conclusion of of Mumbai terror attack trial in Pakistan
remains "core concern" for it.

"All issues are going to be discussed... [ellipsis as published] Terrorism is
certainly a core concern to us. Mumbai (26/11 trial) is a core concern to us,"
highly-placed sources said when asked about the agenda of the meeting between
External Affairs Minister S.M. Krishna and his Pakistani counterpart Hina
Rabbani Khar on Saturday in Islamabad.

However, they were not very forthcoming on whether Krishna will carry any
evidence of the Home Ministry's assertion that most of the recent hate massages
spread through web and SMSes besides any other proof on the revelations made by
LeT [Lashkar-i-Toiba] terrorist Abu Jundal on Pakistan's involvement in 26/11
attacks.

The issue of Jundal has already been raised by Foreign Secretary Ranjan Mathai
during talks with his counterpart Jalil Abbas Jilani here in July, they said.

The parleys, which is a review meeting for the second round of talks which
included discussion on contentious issues such as Jammu and Kashmir
[Indian-administered Kashmir], Sir Creek and Siachen, will also be preceded by
Joint Commission Meeting (JCM) meeting which is taking place after a gap of
nearly seven years.

The JCM is headed by the ministers of the two countries and consists of eight
technical groups, mostly relating to trade and economy.

The commission was revived in 2005 after a gap of 16 years.

Replying to a query on the possibility of terrorism issue taking a backseat in
light of fast progress in trade relations between the two countries, the sources
said if there is "rapid and faster" progress in one area, it does "not mean we
are ignoring the other".

Asked if the much-awaited new visa agreement will be signed between the two
countries during this visit, sources said India hopes it will be signed as early
as possible.

The visa agreement was supposed to be signed during the home-interior
secretaries level talks held in May in Pakistan.

"We were ready in May and we are ready now," a source said.

The new relaxed visa regime will, for the first time, include group tourist
visa, visa on arrival for senior citizens and children and year-long
multiple-entry and multi-city visa for businessmen.

On the issue of possible sale of electricity to Pakistan, sources maintained
that the proposal is still being studied at the technical level.

There have been technical-level talks on the possibility of sale of power, a
source said adding the proposal and the difficulties are still being studied.

"Our grids are not even connected. There are no transmission lines between India
and Pakistan," the source added.

Sources also said the issue of Siachen might come up during the bilateral talks
but said it might not be a very detailed one.

Asked further on the Siachen issue, the sources said both sides are still
trying, at defence secretary-level talks, how to narrow down the differences and
increase the convergence on all outstanding issues.

"Our primary issue is that actual ground position should be authenticated. There
is a step-by-step approach which we have suggested to Pakistan," a source said.

Asked if the issue of Pakistani Hindus is likely to be raised during the visit,
the sources did not clearly state if the issue will be raised or not and said
they would not know since there is no fixed agenda for talks when two ministers
meet.

However, India has already made its position clear, they added.

This will be the second visit of Krishna to Pakistan since 2010. He will meet
his counterpart on 8 September which will be preceded by a meeting of the
foreign secretaries of the two countries on 7 September.

The two ministers will also co-chair the JCM. The joint commission was
established in March 1983 and both countries have decided that it will not be a
substitute for dialogue.

The eight technical-level working groups of the joint commission focuses on
areas such as agriculture, health, science and technology, information,
environment, tourism, education and IT and telecom.

Meanwhile, Krishna will also travel to Lahore and visit Minar-e-Pakistan in
commemoration of the Lahore Resolution of the Muslim League for a separate
Pakistan.

Krishna is also expected to call on Pakistan President Asif Ali Zardari, Prime
Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf. He is also likely to meet the Punjab chief minister
and some other Pakistani political leaders.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1444gmt 05 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 6, 2012 Thursday 9:58 AM GMT

France shooting: Little girl found 'terrorised and immobilised' after surviving
attack;
French police hunting killers of four people shot dead in a British-registered
car explain how a younger survivor wasn't discovered for eight hours

LENGTH: 115 words


A four-year-old girl was found alive last night inside a British-registered BMW
hiding beneath the corpses of three British victims of a fatal shooting spree in
the French Alps, police said.

Police officers found the girl hiding among the dead bodies of a man and two
women, thought to include her parents and grandmother, after being called to the
massacre in the Haute-Savoie region.

Eric Maillaud, the Annecy prosecutor, said that when forensic officers began a
detailed examination they found the girl who had remained hiding, silently, in
terror, for up to eight hours.

"When the investigators got into the car they discovered a little girl, who was
frozen still and uninjured," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 7, 2012 Friday

Turkish daily questions whether depot explosion was sabotage or terror attack

LENGTH: 614 words


Text of report in English by Turkish privately-owned, mass-circulation daily
Hurriyet website on 7 September

[Column by Yusuf Kanli: "The Afyon blast"]

Like many Anatolian cities and towns, Afyon, my wife's town, has a hilly area.
In Afyon, it is called "Hidirlik" and, because of the expansion and development
of the city, it has become the remaining sole picnic area.

Lately, vote-hunting local authorities have started issuing construction permits
for some sections of Hidirlik as well. The windows of some of those houses were
shattered in the blast at an ammunition store apparently dug beneath some
sections of the hilly area. Twenty-five soldiers perished in the blast.

How did it happen? Was it sabotage or a terrorist attack? So far, the military,
as well as Environment Minister Veysel Eroglu, have flatly ruled out a terrorist
attack, stressing that it was most likely caused by an accident. Is it rational
at all to count the stock of an ammunition depot in the middle of the night?
Some 25 soldiers lost their lives, and at least eight were wounded in the blast,
which was reported to have occurred at 2115 local time [1815 gmt on 6
September], raising the question as to why there were so many soldiers in one
place in the middle of a night. There are, of course, many questions that ought
to be asked.

Many of those retired generals and officers who have not yet been rounded up in
the Ergenekon or Sledgehammer thrillers were interviewed by news channels all
through the day yesterday. Everyone had something in common to stress: The
explosion occurred at a military storage facility for hand grenades. That is,
other than some bullets and ammunition that might be used for the defence of the
facility, the depot that exploded was full of hand grenades. Like most other
types of ammunition, hand grenades cannot explode on their own -even when they
are dropped on the ground, because fuses are separately stored. Furthermore,
grenades are produced at such standards that even at war they ought to be safely
transported and should not, for example, explode, even if a box containing them
is hit by an enemy bullet.

The retired generals and officers did not say so, but they strongly implied that
they suspected sabotage. Was it really so? At this stage, making such a claim
would be nothing more than engaging in nasty speculation. Yet, that's one issue
that an investigation which was launched yesterday should carefully examine.

Even though it has been repeatedly denied, many people in this country still
believe in the probability and thus maintain the belief that some traitors have
repeatedly attempted to poison and murder even the Turkish military's chief of
General Staff and Land Forces commander many times over the past decades. Was it
possible for a traitor, a collaborator of the separatist gang, to plant an
explosive in the military storage for hand grenades?

That and many other questions ought to be answered in the investigation, but
most of us, unfortunately, will only learn what indeed happened years later if
and when someone involved in the investigation or from among the current cadre
of commanders reveals what indeed happened. Most likely the issue will be
covered up and forgotten with some obtuse explanations.

Another issue, unfortunately, was seen in the shattered glasses of the windows
of nearby houses. For God's sake, there's a military depot in the area. Permits
for new houses must not be given and extensive security measures must be taken
to place restrictions on the picnicking area as well. What if this blast had
taken place on a summer Sunday when Hidirlik is filled with picnickers?

Source: Hurriyet website, Istanbul, in English 7 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      September 9, 2012 Sunday 1:21 PM GMT

Iraq terror attacks leave 44 dead

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 403 words


Insurgents killed at least 44 people in a wave of attacks against Iraqi security
forces, gunning down soldiers at an army post and bombing police recruits
waiting in line to apply for jobs, officials said.

The violence, which struck at least 11 cities and also wounded nearly 240
people, highlighted militant attempts to sow havoc in the country and undermine
the government.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attacks but security
forces are a frequent target of al Qaida's Iraq branch, which has vowed to
reassert itself and take back areas it was forced from before US troops withdrew
from the country last year.

In the deadliest attack, gunmen stormed a small Iraqi Army outpost in the town
of Dujail before dawn, killing at least 10 soldiers and wounding eight more,
according to police and hospital officials in the nearby city of Balad, 50 miles
north of Baghdad.

Hours later, a car bomb struck a group of police recruits waiting in line to
apply for jobs with the state-run Northern Oil Company outside the northern city
of Kirkuk. City police commander Brigadier General Sarhad Qadir said seven
recruits were killed and 17 wounded. He said all the recruits were Sunni Muslims
and blamed the early morning attack on al Qaida, but did not provide details.

The carnage even stretched into the country's south, where bombs stuck to two
parked cars exploded in the Shiite-dominated city of Nasiriyah, 200 miles
south-east of Baghdad. The blasts were near the French consulate and a local
hotel in the city, although the consulate did not appear to be a target of the
attack.

Local deputy health director Dr Adnan al-Musharifawi said two people were killed
and three were wounded at the hotel, and one Iraqi policeman was wounded at the
consulate. Dr Al-Musharifawi said no French diplomats were among the casualties.

Al Qaida's Iraq franchise, also known as the Islamic State of Iraq, has for
years had a hot-and-cold relationship with the global terror network's
leadership. The two shared the goal of targeting the US military in Iraq and, to
an extent, undermining the Shiite government that replaced Saddam Hussein's
regime.

But al Qaida leaders Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahri distanced themselves
from the Iraqi militants in 2007 because their attacks also killed Iraqi
civilians instead of focusing on Western targets.

A string of smaller attacks also struck nine other cities, including Baghdad.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 9, 2012 Sunday 12:12 PM GMT

Iraq terror attacks leave 39 dead

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 383 words


Insurgents have killed at least 39 people in a wave of attacks against Iraqi
security forces, gunning down soldiers at an army post and bombing police
recruits waiting in line to apply for jobs, officials said.

The violence, which struck at least 10 cities across the nation, highlighted
militant attempts to sow havoc in the country and undermine the government.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attacks, although
security forces are a frequent target of al Qaida's Iraqi franchise, which has
vowed to reassert itself and take back areas it was forced from before US troops
withdrew from the country last year.

In Sunday's deadliest attack, gunmen stormed a small Iraqi Army outpost in the
town of Dujail before dawn, killing at least 10 soldiers and wounding eight
more, according to police and hospital officials in the nearby city of Balad, 50
miles north of Baghdad.

Hours later, a car bomb struck a group of police recruits queuing to apply for
jobs with the state-run Northern Oil Company outside the northern city of
Kirkuk. City police commander Brigadier General Sarhad Qadir said seven recruits
were killed and 17 wounded. He said all the recruits were Sunni Muslims and
blamed the early morning attack on al Qaida, but did not provide details.

The carnage even stretched into the country's south, where bombs stuck to two
parked cars exploded in the city of Nasiriyah, 200 miles south-east of Baghdad.
The blasts were near the French consulate and a local hotel in the city,
although the consulate did not appear to be the target of the attack.

Local deputy health director Dr Adnan al-Musharifawi said two people were killed
and three wounded at the hotel, and one Iraqi policeman was wounded at the
consulate. He said no French diplomats were among the casualties.

A string of smaller attacks also struck eight other cities, including Baghdad.

In the capital's eastern Shiite neighbourhood of Husseniyah, roadside bombs
killed a policeman and a passer-by, security and health officials said. Another
eight people - including four soldiers - were wounded, the officials said.

The rest of the attacks were car bombs that hit cities stretching from the
southern port city of Basra, Iraq's second largest, to the city of Tal Afar
north-west of Baghdad near the Syrian border.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      September 9, 2012 Sunday 9:53 PM GMT

Tourists 'showing disrespect at Ground Zero memorial' ahead of 9/11 anniversary;

Tourists have been showing "disrespect" at the Ground Zero memorial in New York
ahead of the 11th anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks, according
to victims' relatives.

BYLINE: By Nick Allen

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 262 words


Visitors have been seen splashing themselves with water from the memorial's
waterfalls, and sitting on the engraved names of the dead.

In a letter to memorial president Joe Daniels, first responder Marianne
Pizzitola said she found people acting "like this was a park or playground".

She said: "People laughed and took pictures smiling, and so many people leaned
on the tablets with all of my friends' names engraved in them, holding Starbucks
cups, like it was a kitchen table."

A relative of one victim complained that a tourist spilt coffee over her son's
name.

The Ground Zero memorial at the spot where more than 2,600 people died opened
last year. Police and private security guards are present to ensure proper
behaviour.

But there have been complaints about people having picnics under the newly
planted oak tees, and in June a group of high school students threw rubbish in
one of the black pools marking the footprints of the fallen towers.

Around 4.5 million people visited the memorial in its first year. A museum was
supposed to open this month, but construction has been delayed because of a
funding squabble so the site may not be fully complete until at least 2014.

New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg has donated $15 million of his own money to the
museum project.

A spokeswoman for Mr Bloomberg told the New York Times: "The delay is hugely
disappointing to family members of victims and the many stakeholders who have
worked hard to curate the museum.

"But we are confident that the finished product will be the definitive
historical accounting of that terrible day."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                           September 10, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Wave of terror attacks kill 44;
World briefs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 63 words


IRAQ: Insurgents killed at least 44 people in a wave of attacks against Iraqi
security forces, gunning down soldiers at an army post and bombing police
recruits waiting in line to apply for jobs, officials said. The violence, which
struck at least 11 cities and also wounded nearly 240 people, highlighted
militant attempts to sow havoc in the country and undermine the government.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           September 10, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Insurgents in Iraq kill 64 in new wave of terror attacks

BYLINE: WMN REPORTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 564 words


Insurgents killed at least 64 people in a wave of attacks against Iraqi security
forces, gunning down soldiers at an army post and bombing police recruits
waiting in line to apply for jobs, officials said.

The violence, which struck at least 11 cities and also left nearly 240 people
wounded, highlighted militant attempts to sow havoc in the country and undermine
the government.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attacks but security
forces are a frequent target of al Qaida's Iraq branch, which has vowed to
reassert itself and take back areas it was forced from before US troops withdrew
last year.

In yesterday's deadliest attack, gunmen stormed a small Iraqi Army outpost in
the town of Dujail before dawn, killing at least 10 soldiers and wounding eight
more, according to police and hospital officials in the nearby city of Balad, 50
miles north of Baghdad.

Hours later, a car bomb struck a group of police recruits waiting in line to
apply for jobs with the state-run Northern Oil Company outside the northern city
of Kirkuk. City police commander Brigadier General Sarhad Qadir said seven
recruits were killed and 17 wounded. He said all the recruits were Sunni Muslims
and blamed the early morning attack on al Qaida, but did not provide details.

The carnage even stretched into the country's south, where bombs stuck to two
parked cars exploded in the Shiite-dominated city of Nasiriyah, 200 miles
south-east of Baghdad. The blasts were near the French consulate and a local
hotel in the city, although the consulate did not appear to be a target of the
attack.

Local deputy health director Dr Adnan al-Musharifawi said two people were killed
and three were wounded at the hotel, and one Iraqi policeman was wounded at the
consulate. Dr Al-Musharifawi said no French diplomats were among the casualties.

Al Qaida's Iraq franchise, also known as the Islamic State of Iraq, has for
years had a hotand-cold relationship with the global terror network's
leadership.

The two shared the goal of targeting the US military in Iraq and, to an extent,
undermining the Shiite government that replaced Saddam Hussein's regime.

But al Qaida leaders Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahri distanced themselves
from the Iraqi militants in 2007 because their attacks also killed Iraqi
civilians instead of focusing on Western targets.

A string of smaller attacks today also struck nine other cities, including
Baghdad.

In the capital's eastern Shiite neighbourhood of Husseniyah, roadside bombs
killed a policeman and a passer-by, security and health officials said. Another
eight people - including four soldiers - were wounded, the officials said.

The rest of the attacks were car bombs that hit cities stretching from the
southern port city of Basra, Iraq's second largest, to the city of Tal Afar
north-west of Baghdad near the Syrian border. The blast in Basra killed three
people and wounded 24, while the bomb in Tal Afar killed two passers-by and
wounded seven, officials said.

A pair of car bombs in southern Maysan province killed five people and wounded
40 outside a Shiite shrine to Imam Ail al-Sharqi, said the holy site's director,
Ammar Abdullah.

A roadside bomb in Taji, just north of Baghdad, left two passers-by dead and 11
injured, and explosions in the Sunni towns of Hawija and Ar Riyad, outside the
flashpoint city of Kirkuk north of Baghdad, wounded seven people.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 11, 2012 Tuesday

Algerian commentator on anniversary of 9/11 terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 623 words


Text of commentary by Amine Echikr headlined: "Eleven years after 9/11,"
published by Algerian newspaper La Tribune website on 10 September

The world evolves and changes quickly. Geostrategists and politicians change
their minds the way Afghan women change burqas. On 11 September 2001, the United
States of America launched total war on "jihadism" and was followed by all its
allies and other servants.

The war cries were launched from everywhere. At the United Nations, in Arab and
western capitals, it was death to Usamah Bin-Ladin and the Islamist terrorists.
The war was total and merciless. Dozens of countries allied to eradicate the
phenomenon. Legislation was promulgated everywhere in the world to fight the
financing of associations linked to crime and terror.

Eleven years on, some countries are overtly financing jihadists. Others are
offering them highly-sophisticated communications materiel. Certain television
channels invite them onto their sets.

NATO even supported them in Libya to allow that neighbouring country to plunge
into chaos and see a new political class emerge that came entirely out of
Al-Qadhafi's seraglio. They armed, they bombed, they financed, they destroyed
states, lest the jihadists generate dead in their countries, as in Iraq.

The essential point lay in the disappearance of "rogue" states. This logic,
which prevails among the American and other spin-doctors, has the merit of
having wars waged with troops that have not come from the country.

This approach avoids the emotion and the criticisms of American, English, and
French citizens. With the view and the opinion of Syrians, Libyans, and other
citizens of the world not having any impact on elections, the fact of making
cannon fodder out of them does not raise any problems for western politicians
who, in this, are followed by the leaders of the Arab monarchies who are not
acquainted with elections and do not fear being deposed.

Between Barack Obama and Bush Jr., the difference is there, but the goals to be
achieved remain the same. 9/11 no longer has the same value. It does not carry
within it the ideals of democracy, equality and freedom. The situation in
countries such as Iraq, Pakistan, Libya, or Mali does not unduly worry as long
as the interests of states are not affected.

Obama, Hollande and Cameron are not worried. They can even expel certain
activists from their countries using the reason that democracy and human rights
are guaranteed by the new regimes.

Algeria and Algerians were happy to see the entire world become aware of the
planetary scourge that is Islamist terrorism. They are happy to no longer be
alone in this long fight against an enemy who can strike everywhere and anyone.
Where instability reigns, Algerian interests are targeted. The latest example
comes to us from Mali, where our diplomats have been taken hostage and
contradictory news is circulating regarding the fate of one of them.

Eleven years after the destruction of the Twin Towers, the struggles over
influence among the great powers have resumed. They are still producing as many
dead and as much destruction without under-developed countries being able to do
much about it.

Foreign interference, absence of democracy, and ignorance are the lot of these
countries of the south that do not know how to explore their own wealth. Eleven
years on, the method has changed but the objective remains the same: "Change
regimes the better to exploit wealth" with a minimum of damage for Westerners.

"Democracy is the worst system of government with the exception of all the
others that could have been tried in history," Winston Churchill said. Try it
with jihadists, Westerners seem to be telling us.

Source: La Tribune website, Algiers, in French 10 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                Bucks Free Press

                           September 11, 2012 Tuesday

9/11 remains vivid for terror attack survivor

BYLINE: James Nadal

SECTION: NEWS (NEWS)

LENGTH: 182 words


A SURVIVOR of the September 11 terrorist attack in New York says the vividness
of the day will never leave him.

But Ian Robb, 70, of Glade Road, Marlow, speaking on the eleventh anniversary,
said he thinks about it less often now.

Last year, the Free Press featured Mr Robb's remarkable tale of how he was just
a split second from death.

Read his full account HERE .

Having started the day behind schedule and running late he just missed a lift up
to the 78th floor of the World Trade Centre, where he worked.

The people in that lift died, but incredibly, he escaped despite getting in the
following elevator which began its ascent just as the Al Qaeda suicide bombers
struck.

Although he faced a terrifying ordeal becoming trapped in the lift, he got out
and fled in time to get out of harm's way.

Mr Robb said: "The vividness will never go away but the frequency I think about
it has been reduced.

"You still get twinges of guilt because there were a lot of colleagues and
friends of mine who were lost. It's not fair to put that out of your mind
totally, so I'm glad of the reminder occasionally."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     September 11, 2012 Tuesday 2:15 PM GMT

We'll never forget: New York remembers thousands of victims of 9/11 on 11th
anniversary of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER and REUTERS REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 893 words


Families and friends of the thousands who perished on September 11, 2001 have
gathered at Ground Zero to remember and grieve for their love ones on the 11th
anniversary of the terrorist attacks.

Victims are also being remembered at the Pentagon and in rural Pennsylvania, but
at the somber day's biggest venue in lower Manhattan, this year's observance
will be missing a key feature from years past: politicians' voices.

'We've gone past that deep, collective public grief,' Charles G. Wolf, whose
wife Katherine, was killed at the trade center, told NBC. 'And the fact that the
politicians will not be involved, to me, makes it more intimate, for the
families.... That's the way that it can be now.

In previous years, politicians including U.S. presidents, state governors and
New York City mayors have participated in the reading of the names, or have read
from the Bible or recited passages from literature.

This year, only the families of the more than 2,750 who were killed when
militant Islamist hijackers crashed two jetliners into the World Trade Center's
Twin Towers, causing their collapse, are appearing on the podium to read their
names.

Politicians may still attend, but under event rules set down in July by the
National September 11 Memorial and Museum, chaired by New York Mayor Michael
Bloomberg, none may speak or participate in the reading of names. Homeland
Security Secretary Janet Napolitano will attend the New York ceremony this year.

The restrictions will not extend to politicians at the other remembrances,
however.

At the Pentagon outside of Washington, where more than 180 were killed when a
hijacked plane was flown into it, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta will speak in a
ceremony that will be closed to the public, attended only by victims' families.

Vice President Joe Biden will deliver remarks in Shanksville, Pennsylvania,
where 40 passengers aboard United Flight 93 were killed when that plane crashed
as they revolted against their hijackers.

'How we handle the legacy of these 40 people and what they did, what they kept
from happening, is really more of a statement about ourselves, about what we
value as a society,' said Patrick White, current president of Families of Flight
93. White's cousin, Joey Nacke II, was among the passengers who stormed the
cockpit.

U.S. authorities say the al Qaeda hijackers planned to crash that plane into the
U.S. Capitol in Washington.

Like so many of the previous anniversary dates, this year's ceremonies promise
to unfold beneath blue skies and cool, early fall temperatures, conditions
reminiscent of those on the morning of the 2001 attacks that claimed nearly
3,000 lives at the three sites.

In New York, moments of silence are underway to signal the times of impact of
each plane: at 8:46 a.m, 9:03 a.m., 9:37 a.m. and 10:03 a.m. Additional silences
will be observed at 9:59 a.m. and 10:28 a.m., when the South and North Towers
fell.

President Barack Obama and his wife Michelle will participate in a moment of
silence on the White House lawn and then attend the Pentagon Ceremony, the White
House announced last week.

In Shanksville, the names of 40 crew members and passengers aboard the plane
will be read beginning at 10:03 by victims' families and local volunteers who
assisted in the aftermath of the attacks. A bell will ring for the name of each
of the 40 victims, and a wreath will be laid at the Wall of Names honoring the
dead.

Last night, as the world prepared to mark the anniversary of the the 9/11
attacks, the New York skyline was lit up last night with twin lights, filling
the hole left by the World Trade Center.

The bright beams shooting up into the sky are turned on every September 11, and
today's 11th anniversary is no different.

Memorial services are set to take place at Ground Zero and hundreds of other
venues around the globe.

One tribute to the victims comes at Highland Memorial Park in Ocala, Florida,
where 2,741 American flags - one for each of the attacks' victims - have been
planted in a moving act of remembrance.

On Monday, Leon Panetta attended a ceremony at the Flight 93 National Memorial
in Shanksville, Pennsylvania.

The Secretary of Defense called the site 'the final resting place of American
patriots', and said he was there 'to extend our nation's deepest gratitude to
the heroes of Flight 93'.

For the first time, the memorial ceremony at the 9/11 National Memorial in
Manhattan will not feature any politicians this year, in an attempt to focus it
on the private grief of survivors and victims' relatives.

Barack Obama and Mitt Romney are expected to limit their campaigning, and to
cancel negative advertising for the day.

The President has been briefed by top national security aides on what steps the
government was taking to reduce the possibility of reprisal attacks on the 9/11
anniversary.

The White House said on Monday that Mr Obama and his advisers discussed specific
measures the administration was taking to prevent related attacks.

They also discussed steps that were being taken to protect Americans abroad and
U.S. forces serving in combat zones.

The President has instructed government agencies to do everything possible to
protect the American people both at home and abroad.

The attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001
killed nearly 3,000 people and led to long-running U.S. wars in Afghanistan and
Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2012 Tuesday 6:22 PM GMT

Barack Obama: 9/11 has made the US stronger;
US President Barack Obama pays tribute to those who lost their lives during the
9/11 terrorist attacks on New York, Washington DC and Pennsylvania.

LENGTH: 142 words


President Barack Obama                      has told the families of those who
died in the September 11 attacks that their loved ones "will never be
forgotten".

Mr Obama was speaking at the Pentagon, where he and his wife Michelle laid a
wreath to honour those who lost their lives when a plane hit the military
headquarters shortly after the attack on the World Trade Center in New York.

In an emotional speech, the President paid tribute to those who died in the 2001
attacks and those they left behind.

"No matter how many years pass, no matter how many times we come together on
this hallowed ground, know this: that you will never be alone. Your loved ones
will never be forgotten. They will endure in the hearts of our nation, because
through their sacrifice, they helped us make the America we are today."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 11, 2012 Tuesday 8:41 AM GMT

9/11 anniversary: Taliban claim US face 'utter defeat' in Afghanistan;
US forces face "utter defeat" in Afghanistan and Americans are unsafe wherever
they go in the world, the Taliban said ahead of the anniversary of the September
11, 2001 terror attacks.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 369 words


Eleven years ago on Tuesday, almost 3,000 people lost their lives in the worst
terror strike on American soil that saw two passenger planes hijacked by
al-Qaeda slam into New York's World Trade Center and another into the Pentagon.
A fourth plane crashed in a Pennsylvania field.

What followed was a war in Afghanistan, launched over the Taliban's alliance
with al-Qaeda.

"The anniversary of 9/11 is approaching America this year at a time when it is
facing utter defeat in Afghanistan militarily, politically, economically and in
all other facets and it has exhausted all other means through which to prolong
its illegal war," said a statement from the Afghan Taliban, the US-based SITE
Intelligence Group said on Monday.

The statement, which the Taliban wrote in English and posted on Sunday, goes on
to say that the war in Afghanistan "under the pretext of retaliation for the
September incident has no legal or ethical" basis, and that Afghans had "no
hand" in what happened.

Even though the United States has spent "large amounts of military and
economical assets" in the war, "no American is safe in any society today," the
statement said.

The Taliban also claimed it was not a threat but vowed to defend its homeland
and continue with its "sacred struggle" against "the invaders."

"The Islamic Emirate, on the eleventh anniversary of the September incident,
once again calls upon the American officials, its coalition members and its
people to halt shedding the blood of the oppressed Afghans under this pretext
and to follow the path of sound reasoning instead of tyranny and stupidity."

The war in Afghanistan has steadily lost popular support in the United States.

A growing majority of Americans oppose the US military presence in Afghanistan
and support NATO's plan to withdraw most combat forces by the end of 2014.

More than 2,000 US troops have been killed in Afghanistan. Some 77,000 are
currently stationed in the country.

In a separate statement, also released Sunday according to SITE, the Taliban
accused CIA Director David Petraeus of founding the "Arkabi" militia groups and
alleged that he is therefore "directly involved" in killings attributed to them.

Source: AFP

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

West accepts terror attacks when it's politically expedient - Russian minister

LENGTH: 383 words


The West accepts terror attacks when political expediency is at stake, Russian
Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said, speaking to Russian journalists at the
Conference on Interaction and Confidence-building Measures in Asia (CICA) in
Astana, commenting on the refusal of some of UN Security Council permanent
members to condemn terrorist attacks in Syria and Iraq, as quoted by Russian
news agency on 12 September.He described the countries' refusal as
"regrettable". "Up to date the UN SC has severely condemned any terror attacks
and stressed its permanent stance to the effect that terrorism is unacceptable
whatever reasons are used to justify it," he said. For the first time ever
Western partners had rejected this stance when a terrorist attack took place in
Damascus, in the building housing the Syrian security service, as a result of
which heads of some law enforcement structures died, he added.

"The explanation of the Western stance was that it was not a terrorist attack at
all, as it were, because those who headed armed power-wielding structures had
suffered, and power-wielding structures were fighting rebels, as it were,"
Lavrov said.

Lavrov confessed an explanation like this had taken him aback.

"A terrorist attack is a terrorist attack, and to paraphrase the well-known
saying about the duck, if it looks like a terrorist attack, is masterminded and
carried out like a terrorist attack, then it is a terrorist attack," Lavrov
said.

"As for the latest events, we not only proposed that the terrorist attacks in
Aleppo when 27 people died and about one hundred were injured, be condemned, but
we also suggested that a number of terror attacks that took place in Iraq on the
same day, be condemned too," he said. "Our Western partners took a break,
consulted [those in] their capital cities and refused to react to those either,"
he added.

This made him think about a fundamental change in the stance of some Western
countries, Lavrov said.

"Now the point of this stance is that when we are talking about political
expediency from the Western point of view, then terrorist attacks are acceptable
for them. I would be glad if our partners deny my suspicion. But so far I have
nothing else to do but to have one," he said.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0655 gmt 12 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

Terrorist attack foiled, 600 kg explosive seized in Afghan south

LENGTH: 220 words


Text of report by private Pakistan-based Afghan Islamic Press news agency

Kabul, 12 September: The Ministry of Internal Affairs: A total of 600 kg of
explosives have been seized.

The Ministry of Internal Affairs announces they have seized 600 kg of explosives
in a tractor and a big incident prevented in Zabol Province [southern
Afghanistan]. A statement by the Ministry of Internal Affairs said today that
police forces discovered and seized 600 kg of explosives placed in a tractor in
the Kharwarian area in Qalat city, capital of Zabol Province, late yesterday, 11
September. The statement added that police forces detained one Taleban in this
connection and a big terrorist attack has been prevented in Zabol Province.

Meanwhile, a statement which Afghan Islamic Press [AIP] received from the Afghan
Ministry of Defence says that four mine planters have been killed when they were
planting a mine in Wardag Province [eastern Afghanistan].

The Afghan Ministry of Defence says in another statement that one Afghan
National Army soldier has been killed and three others injured in mine
explosions and opponents' attacks in Nad-e Ali and Sangin districts of Helmand
Province [southern Afghanistan].

The Taleban have not commented on these incidents.

Source: Afghan Islamic Press news agency, Peshawar, in Pashto 0810 gmt 12 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

Algerian security unravels "terrorist" plan to attack army base

LENGTH: 249 words


Text of report by Samira Mouaki headlined: "Security services discover a plot by
the Monotheism targeting the army, the terrorists sent one of their colleagues
to Adrar to prepare for the operation," published by privately-owned Algerian
newspaper El-Khabar website on 12 September

Security sources told El-Khabar that the Monotheism and Jihad Movement in West
Africa (MUJAO), active in northern Mali, was planning a terrorist operation in
Algeria.

MUJAO had sent terrorist Abou Maadh, aka Abderrazak [as transliterated] to the
town of Adrar on 7 September to prepare the terrorist operation. He had acted as
the link between the armed movement and the perpetrators of the terrorist
operation which targeted the headquarters of the National Gendarmerie in Ouargla
Province.

Our sources added that after targeting the National Gendarmerie in Tamanrasset
and Ouargla, MUJAO was going to carry out a strike against Algerian military
bases again to get publicity. However, the security services discovered the plot
and were able to learn about the details of the operation which was to target
the Third Military Region.

Related security information said that about 12 4WD vehicles were monitored in
Oued Ledrak [as transliterated], 30 km from El-Mahrousa area and east of the
town of Tamanrasset. The security services did not dismiss the idea that they
were carrying explosives to be used in the operation which was planned by the
terrorist group.

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 12 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

Tunisian leader strongly condemns "dirty terrorist" attack on US envoy in Libya

LENGTH: 99 words


"Libya's security is Tunisia's security and vice versa. What affects the
security of Libya affects the security of Tunisia," Tunisian President Moncef
Marzouki, who is on an official visit to Tripoli, has said, Libyan news agency
WAL reported on 12 September."All dirty terrorist acts that are trying to hit
the Libyan people on their way towards freedom and democracy are painful blows
to Tunisia. We strongly condemn these acts and stand in solidarity with our
brothers in this ordeal," the agency quoted Marzouki as saying.

Source: WAL news agency, Tripoli, in Arabic 1228 gmt, 1223 gmt, 12 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                   September 12, 2012 Wednesday 11:20 AM GMT

Libya: US Ambassador Stevens killed in terror attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 886 words


Chris Stevens - the US Ambassador to Libya - has been killed in a terror attack.

According to a Libyan official he was among four embassy staff who died
yesterday in a rocket attack in Benghazi.

"The Libyan ambassador and three staff members were killed when militia attacked
the embassy," the official said.

Armed gunmen attacked the compound on Tuesday evening, clashing with Libyan
security forces before the latter withdrew as they came under heavy fire.

It is reported he died from suffocation.

Reporters on the scene said they could see looters raiding the building, walking
off with desks, chairs and washing machines.

The film-maker whose movie attacking Islam's prophet Mohammed sparked the
assaults on US missions in Egypt and Libya, said today he had gone into hiding.

But writer and director Sam Bacile, who spoke on the phone from an unidentified
location, remained defiant, saying Islam was a cancer and he wanted his film to
make a political statement.

The 56-year-old identifies himself as an Israeli Jew and says he believes his
video will help his native land by exposing Islam's flaws to the world. Excerpts
dubbed into Arabic were posted on YouTube.

Among other claims that have caused outrage, the film claims Mohammed was a
philanderer who approved of child sex abuse.

Mr Bacile said he was sorry for the person who died, but blamed lax embassy
security.

In Cairo, Egypt, protesters scaled the US embassy walls and replaced an American
flag with an Islamic banner.

It was the first such assaults on US diplomatic buildings in either country, at
a time when both Libya and Egypt are struggling to overcome the turmoil
following the ousting of their long-time leaders Muammar Gaddafi and Hosni
Mubarak in uprisings last year.

In Benghazi, a large mob stormed the US consulate, with gunmen firing their
weapons, said Wanis al-Sharef, an Interior Ministry official. A witness said
attackers fired automatic weapons and rocket-propelled grenades at the consulate
as they clashed with Libyans hired to guard the building.

Outnumbered by the crowd, Libyan security forces did little to stop them, Mr
al-Sharef said.

The crowd overwhelmed the consulate and set fire to it, burning most of it and
looting the contents, witnesses said.

Hours before the Benghazi attack, hundreds of mainly ultra-conservative Islamist
protesters in Egypt marched to the US embassy in Cairo, gathering outside its
walls and chanting against the movie and the US. Most of the embassy staff had
left the compound earlier because of warnings of the upcoming demonstration.

"Say it, don't fear: Their ambassador must leave," the crowd chanted.

Dozens of protesters then scaled the embassy walls, and several went into the
courtyard and took down the American flag from a pole. They brought it back to
the crowd outside, which tried to burn it, but failing that, tore it apart.

The protesters on the wall then raised on the flagpole a black flag with a
Muslim declaration of faith, "There is no god but God and Mohammed is his
prophet". The flag, similar to the banner used by al Qaida, is commonly used by
ultra-conservatives around the region.

The crowd grew throughout yesterday evening with thousands standing outside the
embassy. Dozens of riot police lined up along the embassy walls but did not stop
protesters as they continued to climb and stand on the wall - though it appeared
no more went into the compound.

A group of women in black veils and robes chanted: "Worshippers of the cross,
leave the prophet Mohammed alone."

By midnight, the crowd had dwindled. The US embassy said on its Twitter account
that there would be no visa services today because of the protests.

A senior Egyptian security official at the embassy area said authorities allowed
the protest because it was "peaceful".

When they started climbing the walls, he said he called for more troops, denying
that the protesters stormed the embassy.

The Cairo embassy is in a diplomatic area in Garden City, where the British and
Italian embassies are located, only a few blocks away from Tahrir Square, the
centre of last year's uprising that led to the ousting of Hosni Mubarak.

The Egyptian Foreign Ministry promised to provide the necessary security for
diplomatic missions and embassies and warned that "such incidents will
negatively impact the image of stability in Egypt, which will have consequences
on the life of its citizens".

"This is a very simple reaction to harming our prophet," said protester
Abdel-Hamid Ibrahim.

Speaking before reports of the murdered American emerged, US State Department
spokeswoman Victoria Nuland condemned the attack on the consulate in Libya "in
the strongest terms".

Muslims find it offensive to depict Mohammed in any fashion, much less in an
insulting way. The 2005 publication of 12 caricatures of the prophet in a Danish
newspaper triggered riots in many Muslim countries.

A 14-minute trailer of the film that sparked the protests, posted on the website
YouTube in an original English version and another dubbed into Egyptian Arabic,
depicts Mohammed as a fraud, a womaniser and a madman in an overtly ridiculing
way, showing him having sex and calling for massacres.

A YouTube spokesman said the website's policy was to remove videos that include
a threat of violence, but not those expressing only opinions.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                   September 12, 2012 Wednesday 10:56 AM GMT

US Ambassador Stevens killed in terror attack

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 103 words


Chris Stevens - the US Ambassador to Lybia - has been killed in a terror attack.

According to a Libyan official he was among four embassy staff who died
yesterday in a rocket attack in Benghazi.

"The Libyan ambassador and three staff members were killed when militia attacked
the embassy," the official  said.

Armed gunmen attacked the compound on Tuesday evening, clashing with Libyan
security forces before the latter withdrew as they came under heavy fire.

It is reported he died from suffocation.

Reporters on the scene said they could see looters raiding the building, walking
off with desks, chairs and washing machines.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I FEARED DOG WAS GOING TO KILL MY LITTLE GIRL;
Mum tells of terror over park attack on daughter

BYLINE: Gavin McInally

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 314 words


A HORRIFIED mother has relived the moment she thought a crazed pit bull had
ripped her daughter's foot off.

Kirstie Hair was out with two-yearold daughter Kaylah when the dog sank its
teeth into the tot's left ankle - missing her main artery by inches.

The mum, 20, fought helplessly to drag the dog off her screaming child, but she
couldn't prise its jaws apart once they had locked on to Kaylah.

The dog, said to be a pit bull terrier, only let go when its owner called it off
at Paisley's Brodie Park Kaylah and her mother, who was also bitten on the hand,
were left bleeding and in shock.

Kirstie said: "When the dog was biting my little girl, I thought it would kill
her.

"You read about these kind of attacks and I was terrified it would also bite her
face and neck.

"With the power in its jaws, I thought Kaylah would lose her foot. The doctors
have said there is still a chance of infection but we're just going to have to
take it one day at a time."

The incident took place at 6pm on Saturday. Kirstie said Kaylah normally loves
her walks at the park. She added: "We go to the park often and see a lot of dogs
around.

"But this dog came out of nowhere and bit into her shoe, before flipping her up
into the air.

"When she landed, the dog took a second bite, grabbing her just above the ankle.

"The bite was so deep that you could see through to the bone later."

The dog was called off by its owner, who then picked it up and fled.

Kirstie said: "I picked Kaylah up and ran home. But I was so terrified and in
shock that I started being sick."

Her mum Angela, 47, then rushed the pair to the Royal Alexandra Hospital. Kaylah
was later transferred to Yorkhill Royal Hospital for Sick Children in Glasgow.

She was yesterday recovering at home after being treatment.

Police have issued an appeal for information on a pit bull-type dog and its
owner, described as slim, white and in his thirties.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCKED 3 Kirstie with daughter Kaylah

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2012 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                          September 12, 2012 Wednesday

U.S. continues National Emergency with respect to terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS; US Major Events; US News General

LENGTH: 68 words


U.S. extends National Emergency with respect to 9/11 terrorist attacks - on the
World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and aboard United Airlines Flight 93 - and the
continuing and immediate threat of further attacks for another year. Order,
declared on 14 Sep 2001, and the powers and authorities adopted to deal with it
continued 'because the threat continues'

Event Start Date: 2012-09-14

Event End Date: 2012-09-14

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2012 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                   September 12, 2012 Wednesday 11:24 PM GMT

US ambassador killed in 'co-ordinated al Qaeda revenge attack by terrorists who
used Libyan Mohammed movie protest as cover'

BYLINE: JILL REILLY and LYDIA WARREN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2314 words



     ·    Attack came amid protests following film The Innocence of Muslims
          which 'insults Prophet Mohammed'
     ·    Attackers could have been staging revenge attack for death of al Qaeda
          official in June
     ·    Officials noted the staged attack came on 11th anniversary of 9/11
     ·    US ambassador Christopher Stevens died of 'smoke inhalation' afte r
          grenade attack on consulate in Benghazi
     ·    He had been trying to evacuate staff at US compound as furious mob of
          extremists attacked
     ·    Obama: 'Chris was a courageous and exemplary representative of the US
          who selflessly served his country'
     ·    Marines on their way to Benghazi to provide additional security and
          drones expected to gather intelligence
     ·    Sean Smith, a foreign service information manager, was also shot dead
          by armed militants


A bloody attack on the U.S. consulate in Libya that left American ambassador
Christopher Stevens, two marines and a communications officer dead was a planned
ambush by terrorists using a pro-Islam protest as cover, it has been claimed.

The victims died during a rocket attack when an armed mob set fire to the
consulate in Benghazi after joining a protest over a 'blasphemous' film about
the Prophet Mohammed.

It is believed a 'small, vicious group' of attackers used the protest as a
diversion, although questions remain over whether the killers drummed up support
for the march or simply took advantage of it, an official told  CNN.

While it is not known exactly who was responsible for the rampage, a London
think tank with strong ties to Libya said Stevens, who is not believed to have
been targeted, could have been the victim of a revenge attack by al Qaeda.

The assault 'came to avenge the death of Abu Yaya al-Libi, al Qaeda's second in
command killed a few months ago' in Pakistan, think tank Quilliam told CNN,
noting the rocket-propelled grenade launchers used in the attack do not normally
appear at peaceful protests.

'The military assault against the US Consulate in Benghazi should not be seen as
part of a protest against a low budget film which was insulting Islam - there
were just a few peaceful protesters present at the event,' Quilliam said in a
statement.

'Indeed, there have been no other demonstrations regarding this film in Libya.
We at Quilliam believe the attack on the US consulate in Benghazi was a
well-planned terrorist attack that would have occurred regardless of the
demonstration, to serve another purpose.'

Officials also reportedly voiced their concern that the attack was timed for the
11th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, which were commemorated across the
U.S. on Tuesday.

'We've been talking for years about the desire of Al Qaeda, radical jihadists to
celebrate the anniversary of 9/11,' Pete Hoekstra, former chairman of the House
intelligence committee, told  FoxNews.com. 'All my background, all of the
conversations that I've had over the last 18 hours lead many people to believe
that this was just more than a mere coincidence.'

He added that Al Qaeda chief Ayman al-Zawahri recently released a video calling
on militants to attacks Americans for revenge for the death in Pakistan - and
that the anti-Mohammed film could have been a cover.

As speculations over what led to the attack intensify, President Barack Obama
has deployed a team of 50 marines to the compound in Benghazi which was left
ravaged by firebombs during the attack.

He could also command unmanned surveillance drones to fly over Benghazi in
search of jihadi encampments possibly tied to the deadly attack, a U.S. official
said. The drones, which would pass gathered information to Libyans, are expected
to be approved by the Pentagon and White House shortly.

Scroll down for videos

Christopher Stevens, 52, was at the compound evacuating staff when the building
was stormed by 20 heavily-armed militants.

During a 20 minute fire fight, Libyan guards positioned inside the consulate
managed to hold the attackers off as they sprayed the building with bullets
before hurling a bomb inside. In the carnage, Sean Smith, a foreign service
information management officer was shot dead.

Ambassador Stevens and his team made a desperate bid to flee by car to safety.
But the vehicle came under heavy arms fire and was hit by a rocket, leaving it
disabled and at the mercy of the mob.

Two marines attempted to aid Ambassador Stevens but were also shot dead,
according to CBS.

Graphic images taken at the scene show civilians making desperate attempts to
pull the diplomat to safety. But their efforts were futile.

Arab television station Al Jazeera today reported that Ambassador Stevens died
of smoke inhalation, while the doctor who treated him said he died of severe
asphyxiation, which caused stomach bleeding. He said Stevens had no other
injuries.

The doctor, Ziad Abu Zeid, said Stevens was brought to the Benghazi Medical
Center by Libyans on Tuesday night with no other Americans and that initially no
one realized he was the ambassador. He tried for 90 minutes to revive him.

Stevens was a career diplomat who spoke Arabic and French and had already served
two tours in Libya, including running the office in Benghazi during the revolt
against Gaddafi. Five other US ambassadors have been killed in the line of duty,
the last being Adolph Dubs in Afghanistan in 1979.

President Barack Obama today condemned the attack and paid tribute to the late
Ambassador Stevens as he ordered increased security at diplomatic posts around
the world.

'It's especially tragic that Chris Stevens died in Benghazi as it's a city that
he helped to save,' Obama said outside the White House.

With 'characteristic skill, courage and resolve, he built partnerships with
Libyans... and he worked tirelessly to support this young democracy.

'He was a role model to those who worked with him and to the young diplomats who
strive to follow in his footsteps.

These four Americans stood up for freedom and human dignity. We grieve with
their families but let us carry on their memory... I have no doubt that their
legacy will live on.'

He added: 'The United States condemns in the strongest possible terms this
outrageous and shocking attack. There is no justification to this type of
senseless violence. None.'

In a statement, Hillary Clinton added : 'I had the privilege of swearing in
Chris for his post in Libya only a few months ago. He risked his own life to
lend the Libyan people a helping hand to build the foundation for a new, free
nation.'

She said they were still trying to contact the next of kin for the other two
men.

The deaths will put huge pressure on the Libyan administration which took over
after the fall of Muammar Gaddafi. Despite the West taking a key role in his
overthrow, the country remains unstable and Islamic militants have moved into
the power vacuum.

There are also huge questions about the security surrounding both Ambassador
Stevens, who was believed to be in Benghazi for the opening of an American
building, and the US diplomatic buildings in such a volatile country.

The attack came amid violence in Libya and Cairo, which had been sparked by a
14-minute trailer for a film called The Innocence of Muslims posted on YouTube.

In an original English version and another dubbed into Egyptian Arabic,
Mohammedis depicted as a fraud, a womaniser and a madman, showing him having sex
and calling for massacres.

It was made by Sam Bacile, a 56-year-old California real estate developer who
identifies himself as an Israeli Jew - but who has reportedly been using a
pseudonym. 'Bacile' said he had produced, directed and written the two-hour film
which had only been shown once to a mostly empty theater in Hollywood earlier
this year.

'Islam is a cancer, period,' he said in an interview yesterday, speaking after
the State Department confirmed the death of an American in Benghazi.

He was apologetic about the killing but blamed lax embassy security and the
perpetrators of the violence. 'I feel the security system (at the embassies) is
no good,' said Bacile. 'America should do something to change it.'

Lebanon's Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah claimed the film was an attack on
religious belief, reflecting Western policy and branded it an 'immoral act which
represents the highest degree of aggression against the highest human right...
for respect of beliefs and sanctities.'

In Afghanistan, President Hamid Karzai slammed the film and, fearing another
anti-US backlash, ordered the YouTube site to be shut until the video is taken
down and the US Embassy in the capital Kabul appealed for help in 'maintaining
calm.'YouTube pulled the film on Wednesday.

The movie featured on Egyptian media reports for several days with
ultraconservative clerics going on air to denounce it and also to attack Sadek,
who they blamed for the film.

Matters came to a head yesterday when hundreds of mainly ultraconservative
Islamist protesters in Egypt marched to the US Embassy in downtown Cairo,
gathering outside its walls and chanting against the movie and the US.

Most of the embassy staff had left the compound earlier because of warnings of
the upcoming demonstration.

The crowd chanted, 'Islamic, Islamic. The right of our prophet will not die.'
Some shouted, 'We are all Osama,' referring to al-Qaida leader bin Laden.

Young men, some in masks, sprayed graffiti on the walls. Some grumbled that
Islamist President Mohammed Morsi had not spoken out about the movie.

A group of women in black veils and robes that left only their eyes exposed
chanted, 'Worshippers of the Cross, leave the Prophet Mohammedalone.'

Dozens of protesters then scaled the embassy walls, and several went into the
courtyard and took down the American flag from a pole. They brought it back to
the crowd outside, which tried to burn it, but failing that tore it apart.

The protesters on the wall then raised on the flagpole a black flag with a
Muslim declaration of faith, 'There is no god but God and Mohammedis his
prophet.'  The flag is commonly used by ultraconservatives around the region.

The Cairo embassy is in a diplomatic area in Garden City, where the British and
Italian embassies are located, only a few blocks away from Tahrir Square, the
center of last year's uprising that led to the ouster of Mubarak.

The U.S. Embassy is built like a fortress, with a wall several metres high. But
security has been scaled back in recent months, with several roadblocks leading
to the facility removed after legal court cases by residents.

Trouble quickly spread to Libya where a group identifiying itself as the
'Islamic Law Supporters' attacked the consulate on the anniversary of the 9/11
attacks on American in protest at a film that they deemed blasphemous to the
Prophet Mohammed.

A furious mob fired gunshots and then set the building alight as they clashed
with Libyans hired to guard the facility. Outnumbered by the crowd, Libyan
security forces did little to stop them, al-Sharef said.

Witnesses reported militants firing rocket-propelled grenades from a nearby
farmhouse.

The situation rapidly deteriorated as the army tried to cordon off the area
around the building and fought running battles with the attackers. But the crowd
overwhelmed the facility, looting the contents.

'I heard nearly 10 explosions and all kinds of weapons. It was a terrifying
day,' said a witness who refused to give his name because he feared retribution.

Order was eventually restored after three hours but there was very little of the
consulate left. State Hillary Rodham Clinton strongly condemning the attack in a
statement shortly after.

She said she had called Libyan President Mohammed el-Megarif 'to coordinate
additional support to protect Americans in Libya.'

'Some have sought to justify this vicious behavior as a response to inflammatory
material posted on the Internet,' Clinton said in a statement released by the
State Department.

'The United States deplores any intentional effort to denigrate the religious
beliefs of others. Our commitment to religious tolerance goes back to the very
beginning of our nation. But let me be clear: There is never any justification
for violent acts of this kind.'

It was some hours later that it emerged Ambassador Stevens and three of his team
had been killed.

Mitt Romney used the event as an opportunity to take aim at Obama, accusing the
administration of a 'severe miscalculation' and calling its handling of the
incident 'akin to an apology'.

'I'm outraged by the attacks on American diplomatic missions in Libya and Egypt
and by the death of an American consulate worker in Benghazi,' Romney said in a
statement, when a single death had been reported. 'It's disgraceful that the
Obama administration's first response was not to condemn attacks on our
diplomatic missions, but to sympathize with those who waged the attacks.'

His comments referred to an earlier statement from the U.S. embassy in Cairo
which condemned the anti-Islam film, which he said 'reflects the mixed signals
they're sending to the world' and which he likened to an apology of American
values.

He added that Obama was responsible for the embassy statement - even though
White House officials had distanced themselves from it on Tuesday.

'We are shocked that, at a time when the United States of America is confronting
the tragic death of one of our diplomatic officers in Libya, Governor Romney
would choose to launch a political attack,' Ben LaBolt, a spokesman for the
Obama campaign, countered.

The brutal attacks on Tuesday night were the first such assaults on US
diplomatic facilities in either country, at a time when both Libya and Egypt are
struggling to overcome the turmoil following the ouster of their longtime
leaders, Moammar Gadhafi and Hosni Mubarak, in uprisings last year.

VIDEO: Gunmen attack U.S. consulate in Benghazi at night

VIDEO: Profile of U.S. ambasador to Libya Chris Stevens

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 12, 2012 Wednesday 8:15 PM GMT

US ambassador killed in 'co-ordinated al Qaeda revenge attack by terrorists who
used Libyan Mohammed movie protest as cover'

BYLINE: JILL REILLY and LYDIA WARREN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2180 words



     ·    Ambush came amid protests following film The Innocence of Muslims
          which 'insults Prophet Mohammed'
     ·    Attackers could have been staging revenge attack for death of al Qaeda
          official in June
     ·    US ambassador Christopher Stevens died of 'smoke inhalation' afte r
          grande attack on consulate in Benghazi
     ·    He had been trying to evacuate staff at US compound as furious mob of
          extremists attacked
     ·    Obama: 'Chris was a courageous and exemplary representative of the US
          who selflessly served his country'
     ·    Marines on their way to Benghazi to provide additional security and
          drones expected to gather intelligence
     ·    Sean Smith, a foreign service information manager, was also shot dead
          by armed militants


A bloody attack on the U.S. consulate in Libya that left American ambassador
Christopher Stevens, two marines and a communications officer dead was a planned
ambush by terrorists using a pro-Islam protest as cover, it has been claimed.

The victims died during a rocket attack after an armed mob protesting at a
'blasphemous' film about the Prophet Mohammed set fire to the consulate in
Benghazi.

It is believed a 'small, vicious group' of attackers used the protest as a
diversion, although questions remain over whether the killers drummed up support
for the march or simply took advantage of it, an official told  CNN.

While it is not known exactly who was responsible for the ambush, a London think
tank with strong ties to Libya said Stevens, who is not believed to have been
targeted, could have been the victim of a revenge attack by al Qaeda.

The assault 'came to avenge the death of Abu Yaya al-Libi, al Qaeda's second in
command killed a few months ago' in Pakistan, think tank Quilliam told CNN,
noting the rocket-propelled grenade launchers used in the attack do not normally
appear at peaceful protests.

Officials also reportedly voiced their concern that the attack was timed for the
11th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, which were commemorated across the
U.S. on Tuesday.

'We've been talking for years about the desire of Al Qaeda, radical jihadists to
celebrate the anniversary of 9/11,' Pete Hoekstra, former chairman of the House
intelligence committee, told  FoxNews.com. 'All my background, all of the
conversations that I've had over the last 18 hours lead many people to believe
that this was just more than a mere coincidence.'

He added that Al Qaeda chief Ayman al-Zawahri recently released a video calling
on militants to attacks Americans for revenge for the death in Pakistan - and
that the anti-Mohammed film could have been a cover.

As speculations over what led to the attack intensify, President Barack Obama
has deployed a team of 50 marines to the compound in Benghazi which was left
ravaged by firebombs during the attack.

He could also command unmanned surveillance drones to fly over Benghazi in
search of jihadi encampments possibly tied to the deadly attack, a U.S. official
said. The drones, which would pass gathered information to Libyans, are expected
to be approved by the Pentagon and White House shortly.

Christopher Stevens, 52, was at the compound evacuating staff when the building
was stormed by 20 heavily-armed militants.

During a 20 minute fire fight, Libyan guards positioned inside the consulate
managed to hold the attackers off as they sprayed the building with bullets
before hurling a bomb inside.

Scroll down for videos

In the carnage, Sean Smith, a foreign service information management officer was
shot dead.

Ambassador Stevens and his team made a desperate bid to flee by car to safety.
But the vehicle came under heavy arms fire and was hit by a rocket, leaving it
disabled and at the mercy of the mob.

Two marines attempted to aid Ambassador Stevens but were also shot dead,
according to CBS.

Graphic images taken at the scene show civilians making desperate attempts to
pull the diplomat to safety. But their efforts were futile.

Arab television station Al Jazeera today reported that Ambassador Stevens died
of smoke inhalation, while the doctor who treated him said he died of severe
asphyxiation, which caused stomach bleeding. He said Stevens had no other
injuries.

The doctor, Ziad Abu Zeid, said Stevens was brought to the Benghazi Medical
Center by Libyans on Tuesday night with no other Americans and that initially no
one realized he was the ambassador. He tried for 90 minutes to revive him.

Stevens was a career diplomat who spoke Arabic and French and had already served
two tours in Libya, including running the office in Benghazi during the revolt
against Gaddafi. Five other US ambassadors have been killed in the line of duty,
the last being Adolph Dubs in Afghanistan in 1979.

President Barack Obama today condemned the attack and paid tribute to the late
Ambassador Stevens as he ordered increased security at diplomatic posts around
the world.

'It's especially tragic that Chris Stevens died in Benghazi as it's a city that
he helped to save,' Obama said outside the White House.

With 'characteristic skill, courage and resolve, he built partnerships with
Libyans... and he worked tirelessly to support this young democracy.

'He was a role model to those who worked with him and to the young diplomats who
strive to follow in his footsteps.

These four Americans stood up for freedom and human dignity. We grieve with
their families but let us carry on their memory... I have no doubt that their
legacy will live on.'

He added: 'The United States condemns in the strongest possible terms this
outrageous and shocking attack. There is no justification to this type of
senseless violence. None.'

In a statement, Hillary Clinton added : 'I had the privilege of swearing in
Chris for his post in Libya only a few months ago. He risked his own life to
lend the Libyan people a helping hand to build the foundation for a new, free
nation.'

She said they were still trying to contact the next of kin for the other two
men.

The deaths will put huge pressure on the Libyan administration which took over
after the fall of Muammar Gaddafi. Despite the West taking a key role in his
overthrow, the country remains unstable and Islamic militants have moved into
the power vacuum.

There are also huge questions about the security surrounding both Ambassador
Stevens, who was believed to be in Benghazi for the opening of an American
building, and the US diplomatic buildings in such a volatile country.

The attack came amid violence in Libya and Cairo, which had been sparked by a
14-minute trailer for a film called The Innocence of Muslims posted on YouTube.

In an original English version and another dubbed into Egyptian Arabic,
Mohammedis depicted as a fraud, a womaniser and a madman, showing him having sex
and calling for massacres.

It was made by Sam Bacile, a 56-year-old California real estate developer who
identifies himself as an Israeli Jew. He said he had produced, directed and
written the two-hour film which had only been shown once to a mostly empty
theater in Hollywood earlier this year.

'Islam is a cancer, period,' he said in an interview yesterday, speaking after
the State Department confirmed the death of an American in Benghazi.

He was apologetic about the killing but blamed lax embassy security and the
perpetrators of the violence. 'I feel the security system (at the embassies) is
no good,' said Bacile. 'America should do something to change it.'

Mr Bacile claimed he did not know who had dubbed the film into Arabic. He went
into hiding after the full scale of the the trouble in North Africa became
clear.

Yesterday, Morris Sadek, an Egyptian-born Christian in the U.S. known for his
anti-Islam views, told The Associated Press from Washington that he was
promoting the video on his website and on certain TV stations, which he did not
identify.

The film has featured on Egyptian media reports for several days with
ultraconservative clerics going on air to denounce it and also to attack Sadek,
who they blamed for the film.

Matters came to a head yesterday when hundreds of mainly ultraconservative
Islamist protesters in Egypt marched to the US Embassy in downtown Cairo,
gathering outside its walls and chanting against the movie and the US.

Most of the embassy staff had left the compound earlier because of warnings of
the upcoming demonstration.

The crowd chanted, 'Islamic, Islamic. The right of our prophet will not die.'
Some shouted, 'We are all Osama,' referring to al-Qaida leader bin Laden.

Young men, some in masks, sprayed graffiti on the walls. Some grumbled that
Islamist President Mohammed Morsi had not spoken out about the movie.

A group of women in black veils and robes that left only their eyes exposed
chanted, 'Worshippers of the Cross, leave the Prophet Mohammedalone.'

Dozens of protesters then scaled the embassy walls, and several went into the
courtyard and took down the American flag from a pole. They brought it back to
the crowd outside, which tried to burn it, but failing that tore it apart.

The protesters on the wall then raised on the flagpole a black flag with a
Muslim declaration of faith, 'There is no god but God and Mohammedis his
prophet.'  The flag is commonly used by ultraconservatives around the region.

The Cairo embassy is in a diplomatic area in Garden City, where the British and
Italian embassies are located, only a few blocks away from Tahrir Square, the
center of last year's uprising that led to the ouster of Mubarak.

The U.S. Embassy is built like a fortress, with a wall several metres high. But
security has been scaled back in recent months, with several roadblocks leading
to the facility removed after legal court cases by residents.

Trouble quickly spread to Libya where a group identifiying itself as the
'Islamic Law Supporters' attacked the consulate on the anniversary of the 9/11
attacks on American in protest at a film that they deemed blasphemous to the
Prophet Mohammed.

A furious mob fired gunshots and then set the building alight as they clashed
with Libyans hired to guard the facility. Outnumbered by the crowd, Libyan
security forces did little to stop them, al-Sharef said.

Witnesses reported militants firing rocket-propelled grenades from a nearby
farmhouse.

The situation rapidly deteriorated as the army tried to cordon off the area
around the building and fought running battles with the attackers. But the crowd
overwhelmed the facility, looting the contents.

'I heard nearly 10 explosions and all kinds of weapons. It was a terrifying
day,' said a witness who refused to give his name because he feared retribution.

Order was eventually restored after three hours but there was very little of the
consulate left. State Hillary Rodham Clinton strongly condemning the attack in a
statement shortly after.

She said she had called Libyan President Mohammed el-Megarif 'to coordinate
additional support to protect Americans in Libya.'

'Some have sought to justify this vicious behavior as a response to inflammatory
material posted on the Internet,' Clinton said in a statement released by the
State Department.

'The United States deplores any intentional effort to denigrate the religious
beliefs of others. Our commitment to religious tolerance goes back to the very
beginning of our nation. But let me be clear: There is never any justification
for violent acts of this kind.'

It was some hours later that it emerged Ambassador Stevens and three of his team
had been killed.

Mitt Romney used the event as an opportunity to take aim at Obama, accusing the
administration of a 'severe miscalculation' and calling its handling of the
incident 'akin to an apology'.

'I'm outraged by the attacks on American diplomatic missions in Libya and Egypt
and by the death of an American consulate worker in Benghazi,' Romney said in a
statement, when a single death had been reported. 'It's disgraceful that the
Obama administration's first response was not to condemn attacks on our
diplomatic missions, but to sympathize with those who waged the attacks.'

His comments referred to an earlier statement from the U.S. embassy in Cairo
which condemned the anti-Islam film, which he said 'reflects the mixed signals
they're sending to the world' and which he likened to an apology of American
values.

He added that Obama was responsible for the embassy statement - even though
White House officials had distanced themselves from it on Tuesday.

'We are shocked that, at a time when the United States of America is confronting
the tragic death of one of our diplomatic officers in Libya, Governor Romney
would choose to launch a political attack,' Ben LaBolt, a spokesman for the
Obama campaign, countered.

The brutal attacks on Tuesday night were the first such assaults on US
diplomatic facilities in either country, at a time when both Libya and Egypt are
struggling to overcome the turmoil following the ouster of their longtime
leaders, Moammar Gadhafi and Hosni Mubarak, in uprisings last year.

VIDEO: Gunmen attack U.S. consulate in Benghazi at night

VIDEO: Profile of U.S. ambasador to Libya Chris Stevens

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 12, 2012 Wednesday 7:22 PM GMT

Assault on US consulate in Libya a 'planned terrorist attack by al-Qaeda group,
not a spontaneous act'

BYLINE: TOM BARCLAY and TOBY HARNDEN IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 615 words


The determined assaults on the US embassy in Cairo and the US consulate in
Benghazi on the anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks raise questions about
failings in American security and whether the violence was carefully
premeditated and coordinated.

In particular, the rocket attack on the car of Ambassador Christopher Stevens as
he was driven from the Benghazi consulate bore the hallmarks of a well-trained
terrorist group.

It appears the killers had identified the ambassador's car, knew what his escape
route would be and perhaps triggered the violence to lure him into the trap they
had laid. There is a possibility some kind of inside information from within he
embassy was used.

In June, a pro-al Qaeda group calling itself the Imprisoned Omar Abdul Rahman
Brigades claimed responsibility for detonating an explosive device outside the
US Consulate in Benghazi and and later released a video of that attack.

The same group is believed to have been behind a rocket attack on the convoy of
Dominic Asquith, the British ambassador to Libya, when he was visiting Benghazi
the same month and an attack against the Red Cross in Misrata the following day.
Two of Asquith's bodyguards were wounded.

In a statement today, the Qulliam Foundation counter-extremism think tank
concludes: 'The military assault against the US Consulate in Benghazi should not
be seen as part of a protest against a low budget film which was insulting Islam
- there were just a few peaceful protesters present at the event.

'Indeed, there have been no other demonstrations regarding this film in Libya.
We at Quilliam believe the attack on the US consulate in Benghazi was a
well-planned terrorist attack that would have occurred regardless of the
demonstration, to serve another purpose.'

That purpose was, as Wanis al-Sharif, the deputy Libyan Deputy Interior
Minister, has said, to take revenge for the death of Abu Yahya al-Libi, an
al-Qaeda's commander and senior member of the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group,
killed in a US drone strike in Pakistan in June.

American officials have noted that the attack that killed Ambassador Stevens
came after a call from al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri for revenge for the
death of al-Libi.

Al-Sharif said that 'among the protesters, there were some who infiltrated the
march to start chaos'.

After the death of Ambassador Stevens and three other American officials in
Benghazi, the Obama administration announced that a 50 US-strong US Marines
counter-terrorist team would be sent from its base in Spain to Libya.

That will lead to accusations of shutting the door after the horse has bolted.
Apparently, the guarding of the Benghazi consulate was not being carried out by
Marines but by either diplomatic security staff or contractors.

Al-Sharif said that the consulate should have been better protected because
there was a known threat from Islamists.

But the Libyan government was responsible for security in Benghazi and for
protecting diplomatic missions there. The American responsibility was only for
the consular compound itself.

While there are no indications the Libyan government was linked to the attack,
neither was the violence simply a spontaneous reaction to the release of a
low-budget film mocking the Prophet Mohammed.

The fact that the attacks were able to be staged calls into question the nature
of the new regimes in Egypt and Libya, which the US and the West helped to
install. At best, they show that the regimes have been unable to establish the
rule of law.

For the Obama administration, the worst fear is that deliberate negligence or
even active complicity on the part of elements linked to the governments might
have helped make the attacks possible.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 13, 2012 Thursday

Kazakh official says no terror attack prepared on president

LENGTH: 216 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 12 September: Kazakh Deputy Defence Minister Maj-Gen Talgat Zhanzhumenov
has denied information about alleged preparations for an act of terrorism in
August on Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev's aircraft.

"There was no act of terrorism against the head of state, nor was any such act
expected. Everything (the flight of that Mi-17 - Interfax-Kazakhstan) was
fulfilled as planned," Zhanzhumenov told a briefing in Astana on Wednesday [12
September].

He said this in response to a request from journalists to comment on information
that in the morning of 22 August, simultaneously with the Mi-17's flight, which
ended in a crash, the aircraft of the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, who
was flying to Bishkek on an official visit, took off from Astana airport.

In the words of the deputy minister, the Mi-17 helicopter was carrying out a
planned flight on that day to maintain the security of the airport. "This work
is conducted in interaction with all the [Kazakh] law-enforcement bodies with
the aim of maintaining counter-terror security, and also with the aim of
maintaining the security of the runway," he explained.

[Passage omitted]

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0648 gmt 12 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 13, 2012 Thursday 8:15 PM GMT

'This does not represent us': Pro-American rallies in Libya after terrorist
attack that killed ambassador Chris Stevens

BYLINE: PHIL VINTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 405 words


Pro-American supporters have taken to the streets in Libya today to distance
themselves from the rocket attack which killed U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens.

The diplomat, who has campaigned for peace in the Middle East, was killed by
militants in the city of Benghazi on Tuesday.

Youngsters were among those who waved placards which stated 'this does not
represent us' to express their dismay at the attacks.

One photograph shows a child holding a banner, which although containing some
spelling mistakes had a clear message: 'Sorry people of America this is not the
behaviour of our Islam and prophet,' it read.

Scribbled on another sign was the simple phrase 'Benghazi is against terrorism'
while a third  professed affection for the 52-year-old exclaiming: 'Chris
Stevens was a friend to all Libyans.'

A placard written in Arabic sent out a message to those attempting to exert
their power on the war-torn country.

It said: 'No to al Qaeda, no to violence, this is a youth revolution.'

Another read: 'No No No to Al Qaeda.'

The rally came the day after Mr Stevens became the first U.S. ambassador to be
killed by terrorism in 33 years.

Stevens was struck down in a rocket attack by forces unleashed after Muammar
Gaddafi's power crumbled - an uprising the ambassador had strongly supported.

He was killed alongside three other U.S. officials, including Foreign Service
Information Management Officer Sean Smith, a ten-year veteran of the State
Department, a husband and a father of two.

Stevens, who went by the first name Chris, had only been appointed as Libyan
ambassador by President Obama in January. It came after an esteemed career
within the United States foreign service which spanned more than two decades.

Speaking outside the White House on Wednesday, Obama hailed him Stevens and the
three other U.S. officials who died in the attack as devoted to working for
democracy.

'It's especially tragic that Chris Stevens died in Benghazi as it's a city that
he helped to save,' Obama said.

With 'characteristic skill, courage and resolve, he built partnerships with
Libyans... and he worked tirelessly to support this young democracy.

'He was a role model to those who worked with him and to the young diplomats who
strive to follow in his footsteps.'

He added: 'These four Americans stood up for freedom and human dignity. We
grieve with their families but let us carry on their memory... I have no doubt
that their legacy will live on.'

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 13, 2012 Thursday 7:06 PM GMT

Fourth graders told to draw disturbing images of 9/11 terrorist attacks for
anniversary assignment

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 462 words



     ·    The teacher who set the assignment allegedly told the class 'The
          Afghans did this because they hate all of us and want to kill all of
          us'
     ·    The assignment was set at Hughey Elementary School in El Paso, Texas
          on Monday
     ·    An investigation has been launched after parents complained


Parents of fourth graders were left outraged after their children were given a
class assignment in which they had to draw detailed pictures showing the
September 11 terrorists attacks.

Ivie Gremillion was horrified by the drawing her daughter produced in the class.
The picture depicted the burning twin towers with people plunging to their
deaths yelling, 'Help' and 'I love you.'

Another child given the assignment on Monday, the day before the 11th
anniversary of the attacks, drew a picture showing a person falling from the
building saying: 'One way ticket to heaven.'

Scroll down for video

Gremillion told Fox newsthat a fourth grade teacher at Hughey Elementary School
in El Paso, Texas gave specific instructions to her class.

'We had to draw the boom cloud, the planes hitting, and people jumping out of
the windows,' Gremillion's daughter allegedly said after school on Monday.

The mother claims the teacher explained the attacks to the class, saying: 'The
Afghans did this because they hate all of us and want to kill all of us.'

She is teaching racism and hate about an entire nation, Gremillion said of the
teacher.

Her daughter's picture also appears to show the pilots of the planes laughing.

The aggrieved mother told the news station that her neighbour's son, who was
also in the class, was emotionally damaged by the assignment.

The boy now thinks that terrorist attacks happen every year on September 11 and
was terrified to go to school on Tuesday, she said.

School district officials said that they spoke to the teacher who set the
assignment. She said that the class had discussed the terrorist attacks  and
were then asked to draw something they learned from the lesson.

The school highlighted that some students had drawn pictures of heroic police
officers and fire-fighters at the scene.

However, officials said they were still investigating the assignment and
apologised for the incident.

Gremillion believes a counsellor should come in to tell the class about the
events of 9/11 - but leave out any of the gruesome details.

She added that her husband enlisted in the army because of September 11 and will
be deployed to Afghanistan by the end of the year.

She said that, following the class, her daughter is now worried that her father
is going to die.

Watch video here

Watch the latest video at video.foxnews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 13, 2012 Thursday 12:22 AM GMT

Pentagon sending warships to Libya following death of ambassador killed in
'co-ordinated al Qaeda revenge attack by terrorists who used Libyan Mohammed
movie protest as cover'

BYLINE: JILL REILLY, LYDIA WARREN and ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2465 words



     ·    USS Laboon and USS McFaul sent to the coast of Libya on the day after
          the massacre at the U.S. consulate in Benghazi
     ·    Attack came amid protests following film The Innocence of Muslims
          which 'insults Prophet Mohammed'
     ·    Attackers could have been staging revenge attack for death of al Qaeda
          official in June
     ·    Officials noted the staged attack came on 11th anniversary of 9/11
     ·    US ambassador Christopher Stevens died of 'smoke inhalation' afte r
          grenade attack on consulate in Benghazi
     ·    He had been trying to evacuate staff at US compound as furious mob of
          extremists attacked
     ·    Obama: 'Chris was a courageous and exemplary representative of the US
          who selflessly served his country'
     ·    Marines on their way to Benghazi to provide additional security and
          drones expected to gather intelligence
     ·    Sean Smith, a foreign service information manager, was also shot dead
          by armed militants


U.S. officials say the Pentagon is positioning two warships near the Libyan
coast following a bloody attack on the U.S. consulate there that left American
ambassador Christopher Stevens, two marines and a communications officer dead.

Officials say one destroyer, the USS Laboon, moved to a position off the coast
Wednesday, and the USS McFaul is en route and should be stationed off the coast
within days.

The officials say the ships, which carry Tomahawk missiles, do not have a
specific mission. But they give commanders flexibility to respond to any mission
ordered by the president.

The destroyers have crews totaling about 300.

There have been four destroyers in the Mediterranean for some time.

These moves will increase that to five.

Officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to
publicly discuss troop movements.

It is believed that the attack, which occurred on the 11th anniversary of the
September 11 attacks, was a planned ambush carried out by terrorists using a
pro-Islam protest as cover.

The victims died during a rocket attack when an armed mob set fire to the
consulate in Benghazi after joining a protest over a 'blasphemous' film about
the Prophet Mohammed.

It is believed a 'small, vicious group' of attackers used the protest as a
diversion, although questions remain over whether the killers drummed up support
for the march or simply took advantage of it, an official told  CNN.

While it is not known exactly who was responsible for the rampage, a London
think tank with strong ties to Libya said Stevens, who is not believed to have
been targeted, could have been the victim of a revenge attack by al Qaeda.

The assault 'came to avenge the death of Abu Yaya al-Libi, al Qaeda's second in
command killed a few months ago' in Pakistan, think tank Quilliam told CNN,
noting the rocket-propelled grenade launchers used in the attack do not normally
appear at peaceful protests.

'The military assault against the US Consulate in Benghazi should not be seen as
part of a protest against a low budget film which was insulting Islam - there
were just a few peaceful protesters present at the event,' Quilliam said in a
statement.

'Indeed, there have been no other demonstrations regarding this film in Libya.
We at Quilliam believe the attack on the US consulate in Benghazi was a
well-planned terrorist attack that would have occurred regardless of the
demonstration, to serve another purpose.'

Officials also reportedly voiced their concern that the attack was timed for the
11th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, which were commemorated across the
U.S. on Tuesday.

Scroll down for videos

'We've been talking for years about the desire of Al Qaeda, radical jihadists to
celebrate the anniversary of 9/11,' Pete Hoekstra, former chairman of the House
intelligence committee, told  FoxNews.com. 'All my background, all of the
conversations that I've had over the last 18 hours lead many people to believe
that this was just more than a mere coincidence.'

He added that Al Qaeda chief Ayman al-Zawahri recently released a video calling
on militants to attacks Americans for revenge for the death in Pakistan - and
that the anti-Mohammed film could have been a cover.

As speculations over what led to the attack intensify, President Barack Obama
has deployed a team of 50 marines to the compound in Benghazi which was left
ravaged by firebombs during the attack.

He could also command unmanned surveillance drones to fly over Benghazi in
search of jihadi encampments possibly tied to the deadly attack, a U.S. official
said. The drones, which would pass gathered information to Libyans, are expected
to be approved by the Pentagon and White House shortly.

Christopher Stevens, 52, was at the compound evacuating staff when the building
was stormed by 20 heavily-armed militants.

During a 20 minute fire fight, Libyan guards positioned inside the consulate
managed to hold the attackers off as they sprayed the building with bullets
before hurling a bomb inside. In the carnage, Sean Smith, a foreign service
information management officer was shot dead.

Ambassador Stevens and his team made a desperate bid to flee by car to safety.
But the vehicle came under heavy arms fire and was hit by a rocket, leaving it
disabled and at the mercy of the mob.

Two marines attempted to aid Ambassador Stevens but were also shot dead,
according to CBS.

Graphic images taken at the scene show civilians making desperate attempts to
pull the diplomat to safety. But their efforts were futile.

Arab television station Al Jazeera today reported that Ambassador Stevens died
of smoke inhalation, while the doctor who treated him said he died of severe
asphyxiation, which caused stomach bleeding. He said Stevens had no other
injuries.

The doctor, Ziad Abu Zeid, said Stevens was brought to the Benghazi Medical
Center by Libyans on Tuesday night with no other Americans and that initially no
one realized he was the ambassador. He tried for 90 minutes to revive him.

Stevens was a career diplomat who spoke Arabic and French and had already served
two tours in Libya, including running the office in Benghazi during the revolt
against Gaddafi. Five other US ambassadors have been killed in the line of duty,
the last being Adolph Dubs in Afghanistan in 1979.

President Barack Obama today condemned the attack and paid tribute to the late
Ambassador Stevens as he ordered increased security at diplomatic posts around
the world.

'It's especially tragic that Chris Stevens died in Benghazi as it's a city that
he helped to save,' Obama said outside the White House.

With 'characteristic skill, courage and resolve, he built partnerships with
Libyans... and he worked tirelessly to support this young democracy.

'He was a role model to those who worked with him and to the young diplomats who
strive to follow in his footsteps.

These four Americans stood up for freedom and human dignity. We grieve with
their families but let us carry on their memory... I have no doubt that their
legacy will live on.'

He added: 'The United States condemns in the strongest possible terms this
outrageous and shocking attack. There is no justification to this type of
senseless violence. None.'

In a statement, Hillary Clinton added : 'I had the privilege of swearing in
Chris for his post in Libya only a few months ago. He risked his own life to
lend the Libyan people a helping hand to build the foundation for a new, free
nation.'

She said they were still trying to contact the next of kin for the other two
men.

The deaths will put huge pressure on the Libyan administration which took over
after the fall of Muammar Gaddafi. Despite the West taking a key role in his
overthrow, the country remains unstable and Islamic militants have moved into
the power vacuum.

There are also huge questions about the security surrounding both Ambassador
Stevens, who was believed to be in Benghazi for the opening of an American
building, and the US diplomatic buildings in such a volatile country.

The attack came amid violence in Libya and Cairo, which had been sparked by a
14-minute trailer for a film called The Innocence of Muslims posted on YouTube.

In an original English version and another dubbed into Egyptian Arabic,
Mohammedis depicted as a fraud, a womaniser and a madman, showing him having sex
and calling for massacres.

It was made by Sam Bacile, a 56-year-old California real estate developer who
identifies himself as an Israeli Jew - but who has reportedly been using a
pseudonym. 'Bacile' said he had produced, directed and written the two-hour film
which had only been shown once to a mostly empty theater in Hollywood earlier
this year.

'Islam is a cancer, period,' he said in an interview yesterday, speaking after
the State Department confirmed the death of an American in Benghazi.

He was apologetic about the killing but blamed lax embassy security and the
perpetrators of the violence. 'I feel the security system (at the embassies) is
no good,' said Bacile. 'America should do something to change it.'

Lebanon's Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah claimed the film was an attack on
religious belief, reflecting Western policy and branded it an 'immoral act which
represents the highest degree of aggression against the highest human right...
for respect of beliefs and sanctities.'

In Afghanistan, President Hamid Karzai slammed the film and, fearing another
anti-US backlash, ordered the YouTube site to be shut until the video is taken
down and the US Embassy in the capital Kabul appealed for help in 'maintaining
calm.'YouTube pulled the film on Wednesday.

The movie featured on Egyptian media reports for several days with
ultraconservative clerics going on air to denounce it and also to attack Sadek,
who they blamed for the film.

Matters came to a head yesterday when hundreds of mainly ultraconservative
Islamist protesters in Egypt marched to the US Embassy in downtown Cairo,
gathering outside its walls and chanting against the movie and the US.

Most of the embassy staff had left the compound earlier because of warnings of
the upcoming demonstration.

The crowd chanted, 'Islamic, Islamic. The right of our prophet will not die.'
Some shouted, 'We are all Osama,' referring to al-Qaida leader bin Laden.

Young men, some in masks, sprayed graffiti on the walls. Some grumbled that
Islamist President Mohammed Morsi had not spoken out about the movie.

A group of women in black veils and robes that left only their eyes exposed
chanted, 'Worshippers of the Cross, leave the Prophet Mohammedalone.'

Dozens of protesters then scaled the embassy walls, and several went into the
courtyard and took down the American flag from a pole. They brought it back to
the crowd outside, which tried to burn it, but failing that tore it apart.

The protesters on the wall then raised on the flagpole a black flag with a
Muslim declaration of faith, 'There is no god but God and Mohammedis his
prophet.'  The flag is commonly used by ultraconservatives around the region.

The Cairo embassy is in a diplomatic area in Garden City, where the British and
Italian embassies are located, only a few blocks away from Tahrir Square, the
center of last year's uprising that led to the ouster of Mubarak.

The U.S. Embassy is built like a fortress, with a wall several metres high. But
security has been scaled back in recent months, with several roadblocks leading
to the facility removed after legal court cases by residents.

Trouble quickly spread to Libya where a group identifiying itself as the
'Islamic Law Supporters' attacked the consulate on the anniversary of the 9/11
attacks on American in protest at a film that they deemed blasphemous to the
Prophet Mohammed.

A furious mob fired gunshots and then set the building alight as they clashed
with Libyans hired to guard the facility. Outnumbered by the crowd, Libyan
security forces did little to stop them, al-Sharef said.

Witnesses reported militants firing rocket-propelled grenades from a nearby
farmhouse.

The situation rapidly deteriorated as the army tried to cordon off the area
around the building and fought running battles with the attackers. But the crowd
overwhelmed the facility, looting the contents.

'I heard nearly 10 explosions and all kinds of weapons. It was a terrifying
day,' said a witness who refused to give his name because he feared retribution.

Order was eventually restored after three hours but there was very little of the
consulate left. State Hillary Rodham Clinton strongly condemning the attack in a
statement shortly after.

She said she had called Libyan President Mohammed el-Megarif 'to coordinate
additional support to protect Americans in Libya.'

'Some have sought to justify this vicious behavior as a response to inflammatory
material posted on the Internet,' Clinton said in a statement released by the
State Department.

'The United States deplores any intentional effort to denigrate the religious
beliefs of others. Our commitment to religious tolerance goes back to the very
beginning of our nation. But let me be clear: There is never any justification
for violent acts of this kind.'

It was some hours later that it emerged Ambassador Stevens and three of his team
had been killed.

Mitt Romney used the event as an opportunity to take aim at Obama, accusing the
administration of a 'severe miscalculation' and calling its handling of the
incident 'akin to an apology'.

'I'm outraged by the attacks on American diplomatic missions in Libya and Egypt
and by the death of an American consulate worker in Benghazi,' Romney said in a
statement, when a single death had been reported. 'It's disgraceful that the
Obama administration's first response was not to condemn attacks on our
diplomatic missions, but to sympathize with those who waged the attacks.'

His comments referred to an earlier statement from the U.S. embassy in Cairo
which condemned the anti-Islam film, which he said 'reflects the mixed signals
they're sending to the world' and which he likened to an apology of American
values.

He added that Obama was responsible for the embassy statement - even though
White House officials had distanced themselves from it on Tuesday.

'We are shocked that, at a time when the United States of America is confronting
the tragic death of one of our diplomatic officers in Libya, Governor Romney
would choose to launch a political attack,' Ben LaBolt, a spokesman for the
Obama campaign, countered.

The brutal attacks on Tuesday night were the first such assaults on US
diplomatic facilities in either country, at a time when both Libya and Egypt are
struggling to overcome the turmoil following the ouster of their longtime
leaders, Moammar Gadhafi and Hosni Mubarak, in uprisings last year.

VIDEO: Gunmen attack U.S. consulate in Benghazi at night

VIDEO: Profile of U.S. ambasador to Libya Chris Stevens

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 14, 2012 Friday

UAE condemns "terrorist attack" on Benghazi US consulate

LENGTH: 154 words


Text of report in English by UAE news agency WAM website

["UAE condemns attack on US consulate in Benghazi" - WAM headline]

WAM Abu Dhabi: The United Arab Emirates condemns in the strongest terms the
terrorist attack on the US consulate in Benghazi, Libya, which resulted in the
killing of US Ambassador John Christopher Stevens and a number of employees of
the consulate, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement tonight.

The statement called on the Libyan government to strictly abide by all the terms
of 1961 Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations which, in articles No 22 and
29 in particular, regulates diplomatic immunities and practices and calls for
protection of diplomatic missions by hosting states.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also called for quick and transparent
investigations into the attack in order to bring perpetrators to justice.

Source: WAM news agency website, Abu Dhabi, in English 14 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                     September 14, 2012 Friday 8:10 AM GMT

Kenyan police stop major terror attack

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 127 words


Kenyan police say they have arrested two people suspected to have links with an
al-Qa'ida-linked Somali militant group that was in the last stages of planning a
major terrorist attack on Kenyan soil.

Boniface Mwaniki , the head of Kenya's Anti-Terrorism Police Unit, said today
that police found four suicide vests, a cache of weapons and 12 grenades.

Kenya has suffered grenade attacks that have killed more than 50 people. Police
have attributed them to sympathizers of the al-Shabab militant group in Kenya.

Al-Shabab has vowed to carry out terror attacks in Kenya in retaliation against
the country for sending troops into Somalia to hunt the militants it blames for
a series of cross border attacks, including the kidnapping of four Europeans
last year.

AP

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2012 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                           September 14, 2012 Friday

Security Council strongly condemns 'heinous' terrorist attack in Yemen

LENGTH: 194 words


September 13, 2012

The Security Council today strongly condemned the terrorist attack that occurred
in the capital, Sana'a, on 11 September that caused numerous deaths and
injuries, including among the security detail of Yemen's defence minister.



A car bomb detonated as the motorcade of the minister, Major General Muhammad
Nasir Ahmad, passed near government offices in central Sana'a, according to
media reports. Eleven people were reportedly killed, including seven of the
minister's bodyguards.

Council members expressed their deep sympathy and sincere condolences to the
victims of these "heinous acts" and to their families, and to the people and
Government Yemen, according to a statement issued to the press by Ambassador
Peter Wittig of Germany, which holds the Council's rotating presidency for this
month.

"The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by
whomsoever committed," the statement added.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2012 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 14, 2012 Friday 3:54 PM GMT

Syria: indiscriminate attacks kill, terrorise and displace civilians;
Every day children and civilians are being killed in air bombardments and
artillery strikes all over Syria. Amnesty International's Donatella Rovera
witnessed the scenes every day.

BYLINE: By Donatella Rovera Maaret Misrin, Syria

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 935 words


Eleven-year-old Ahmad Hamdo lay still on a stretcher on the floor of the
hospital.

Moments earlier he had died from shrapnel injuries to the abdomen and pelvis.

In the same room, doctors were desperately trying to save a little girl with bad
head injuries.

Her father was holding her hand, murmuring "my darling daughter stay with me".
She died 10 minutes later. Her name was Maram Qaddi and she was five years old.

Maram, Hamdo and another child, a 15-year-old girl named Do'aa, were killed when
their homes in the village of 'Ainkawi were bombed by the Syrian air force
killing five civilians and injuring dozens.

Toddler Mothanna Abdo was one of the injured arriving in hospital with
horrendous gaping wounds in his right thigh, where fragments of the bomb had
penetrated. I don't know how such a small child could bear so much pain. His
mother had a nasty shrapnel injury in her back.

Every day children and other civilians are being killed and injured in
indiscriminate air bombardments and artillery strikes by government armed forces
all over Syria.

With the attention of the international media mostly focused on fighting in
Aleppo and the capital, hardly any news reaches the outside world about the
horrors of daily life for the residents of Jabal al-Zawiya and elsewhere in the
Idlib and north Hama regions.

Every day civilians are killed or injured in their homes, or in the street, as
they run for cover.

Hundreds have lost their lives or been injured in recent days and weeks, many of
them children.

Towns and villages have been virtually emptied of their residents, many of whom
are now camping out in the surrounding countryside or hiding in caves.

Some are crowding in with relatives in what they hope are safer areas. Others
have fled across the border to Turkey - or are currently stuck at the border
waiting to cross.

In Maaret Misrin - a town of 40,000 which had until recently played host to a
stream of families fleeing the fighting - I witnessed indiscriminate bombings
every day. The town is now virtually deserted and there is no safe place for the
few remaining residents.

On September 9, four artillery shells landed in the space of half an hour.
Nabila Haddad, a mother of four, and her cousin Ahmad Haddad were killed and her
15-year-old son was gravely injured, along with two other relatives.

The day before, while I was in the town investigating an air strike that had
killed several civilians, two shells landed on a family house in the next
street. We found the occupants stunned, coated in white dust but, mercifully,
uninjured. When the bomb fell they'd all been drinking tea.

Terrified women and children were huddled in a room in an undamaged part of the
house. I couldn't believe how lucky they had been to have escaped unharmed.

Others were not so lucky. A family told me how their relatives and neighbours
were killed and injured in a strike on August 18 - a man called Nazir Najjar and
his 13-year-old son died, his wife and three other children were injured. In the
same attack - a woman who lived next door, Yusra Yunes, and the owner of the
grocery shop downstairs, Mohammed Aalulu, also died.

The bombing and shelling is relentless. During the 11 days I have been in the
area not a single day passed without shelling and I did not find a single town
or village which had not been hit.

Victims are almost always civilians. Not surprisingly, as the unguided bombs
dropped by aircraft, and artillery shells and mortars are notoriously imprecise.
They target areas, not specific objects, and are meant for the battle field.
They should never be used in residential areas.

On September 8 I arrived in Taftanaz, where a brutal Syrian army attack last
April left scores of civilians dead.

Now virtually deserted, the town was being rocked by loud explosions. The car
shook as two artillery shells - they seem to come mostly in pairs - landed in an
empty space nearby.

There was nobody around except for the two-car convoy I was travelling in, which
was full of women and children on their way to the refugee camps in Turkey -
hardly a military target. A few minutes later another shell landed in an empty
field by the main road a few hundred metres ahead of our vehicle. Again, no
military target in sight.

Not everyone is able to leave - there is very little fuel available - and some
don't want to become refugees. And wherever there are residents there are
victims - often children.

At the hospital of one of the villages in Jabal al-Zawiya, two bodies were
brought in, a young man and a boy. The back half of the boy's head was missing.
A man who had brought in some of the injured came to look at the child and
fainted at the sight.

The child was later identified as Abdo Ahmad al-Hammami aged nine.

In an emergency room a 13-year-old boy screamed in pain; he had shrapnel
injuries all over his body and was waiting his turn to be seen behind others
with even worse injuries. Two of those patients died in the following two hours
despite the doctors' efforts to save them.

They were the victims of yet another indiscriminate attack. Some of the wounded
and their relatives told me several missiles exploded in the nearby village of
Ehsem, killing and injuring residents in their homes and in the street. Five
were killed and at least ten were injured in the attack.

The same pattern is repeated in all the areas which have come under the
effective control of opposition forces. Having been forced out of the area,
government forces are now bombing from the air and shelling from afar, knowing
that the victims of such indiscriminate attacks are almost always civilians.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 17, 2012 Monday

Arrested terror suspects said planning attack Kenyan parliament

LENGTH: 893 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "Suicide bombers targeted parliament"
published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 17 September

The two suicide bombers arrested on Thursday night [13 September] by Special
Crime Prevention Unit are part of a larger Al-Shabab-sponsored terror gang
planning to blow up parliament and assassinate high profile politicians.

The suspects found with a cache of bombs and an assortment of weapons have
confessed that one of their targets was parliament.

"They wanted to find their way into parliament and blow themselves up while
others targeted a senior politician," said an investigator privy to the probe.
Police on Friday morning seized a cache of explosive-laden vests, grenades and
automatic rifles in midnight raid in an apartment in Eastleigh, Nairobi.

Kenya has been on a heightened state of security since Nairobi sent troops into
Somalia to crush Al-Qa'idah-linked insurgents who carried out a double suicide
bombing in Uganda in July 2010.

Police displayed the six suicide bomber vests, 12 grenades and four AK-47s with
more than a dozen loaded magazines. They also seized mobile phones that were to
trigger the bombs.

Police said the successful seizure of the weapons was a result of intensive
intelligence gathering that also resulted in the arrest of four foreigners with
links to the Al-Shabab.

It emerged yesterday that the two suspects reached Nairobi on 10 August from
Garissa [northeastern Kenya] by bus. They bribed their way at the Garissa bridge
which is normally manned by police officers who check every passenger and
luggage before letting buses and private cars proceed to Nairobi.

They walked on foot after getting off the bus in Eastleigh to their hideout. One
of the two is a Kenyan whose mother lives in Nairobi and is described by
detectives as well-versed with the geography of Nairobi and Mombasa.

His accomplice, who is of Somali origin, had already acquired a Kenya ID
[identification card].

As part of their vile plan, they bought an old maroon Peugeot saloon car for
180,000 shillings. The car was sold to them by a dealer near the Holy Family
Basilica. They did not ask for a logbook.

Their leader had informed that Thursday was the day for the evil mission. But
the vehicle broke down when loaded with the explosives and they were advised to
abort the mission.

They were intent on carrying out bombings similar to the August 1998 bombings in
Nairobi that brought down the US embassy off Moi Avenue.

Only this time they would carry out similar bombings in Kampala, Nairobi and
Mombasa. In Mombasa they were to explode their bombs at pirates Club.

Investigators said yesterday the bombs had been put together by an expert.

One of the two bombers had been hit by a mortar while in Somalia in the past and
was later brought to Nairobi and treated at three top Nairobi hospitals
including the Kenyatta National Hospital. His right hand is partially paralysed.
The operations in Nairobi was complicated and the marks stretch from his
shoulder to the elbow. After recovering he went back to Somalia. Detectives will
interview the doctors who treated him in Nairobi.

The Kenyan youth was brainwashed by his recruiters and convinced  that the US
was bent on destroying Muslims and that he needed to join a special group of
Muslims who would defend that faith.

Because of the onslaught by Kenya Defence Forces in Operation Linda Mpaka that
turned into operation Linda Nchi and later culminated into KDF joining Amisom,
the Al-Qa'idah linked insurgents have been dislodged from most of their
strategic defensive positions.

The group now believes that striking parliament or assassinating a high profile
Kenyan politician will help slow down Amisom, especially Kenyan forces who have
made so much gains as they seek to take over Al-Shabab stronghold of Kismaayo
[southern Somalia].

"Al-Shabab have been defeated in Somalia and have now resolved to bring the war
back to Kenya. Their people are planning a major attack in Kenya in the next few
weeks. We have obtained information from some of them arrested while crossing
into Kenya that they are planning to detonate explosives in parliament or
assassinate a high profile politician and cause upheaval in the country. These
people are not good. We are lucky to have arrested the suspects. Things would be
different now," a senior intelligence official privy to the arrests a week ago
said.

Parliament has since stepped up its security and MPs are now only allowed two
visitors at a time. Several senior politicians have also had their security
improved and have acquired armoured vehicles.

The suspects who were arrested last Friday, Abdul Majid Yassin, 26 and
24-year-old Suleiman Abdi will appear in court while police and intelligence
operatives hunt down eight other suspects on the run. The suspects have been
interrogated and will appear in court today.

The suspects were arrested in a room within an apartment with in which they
found food, clothes, jerrycans and three mattresses with no furniture.

Some of the bombs recovered were mounted on the suicide vests with connections
to mobile phone batteries. Police said the connections to mobile phones, which
were also recovered, showed that the attackers would have ignited the explosions
from far in case the suicide bombers failed to detonate them.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 17 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 17, 2012 Monday 9:32 PM GMT

September 11 anniversary: politics left out of memorial;
Politicians were absent from the September 11 anniversary ceremony in New York
for the first time yesterday, as the US marked a low-key beginning to the second
decade since the terrorist attacks.

BYLINE: By Raf Sanchez Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 438 words


After 10 years in which presidents, governors and mayors have used the site of
the World Trade Center to delivery rallying speeches to the nation, the families
of the victims were left alone yesterday to quietly read the names of the 2,977
people killed.

Under a clear blue sky, the readers worked through the list of names from Gordon
Aamoth, a 32-year-old investment banker, to Igor Zukelman, a 29-year-old
computer scientist, in a quiet ceremony in lower Manhattan.

"I love the subdued atmosphere - it's very personal," Angela Pesce told the New
York Times, as she remembered her son Danny. "It's the way it should have been
since Day One."

The decision to exclude politicians' speeches was made by Michael Bloomberg, the
Mayor of New York and chairman of the foundation in charge of the Ground Zero
memorial.

He also announced that an agreement had been reached with the Port Authority of
New York and New Jersey, allowing work to resume on the long-delayed September
11 museum.

The museum was supposed to be ready this year but disagreements have caused
severe delays and it is now expected to open in autumn 2013 at the earliest.

Mr Bloomberg said the deal meant construction would be "restarted very soon and
will not stop until the museum is completed."

The anniversary marked a brief truce in the US presidential election campaign as
both the Obama and Romney campaigns pulled their negatives for a day out of
respect.

President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle, held a moment of silence at the
White House before heading to the Pentagon, where 184 people were killed when
American Airlines Flight 77 struck the headquarters of America's military.

Mr Obama paid tribute to the "9/11 generation" of soldiers who had served in
Iraq and Afghanistan and said they had delivered a "crippling blow" to al-Qaeda.

"Al-Qaeda's leadership has been devastated and Osama bin Laden will never
threaten us again," he said. "Our country is safer and our people are
resilient."

He added: "And even though we may never be able to fully lift the burden carried
by those left behind, we know that somewhere, a son is growing up with his
father's eyes, and a daughter has her mother's laugh - living reminders that
those who died are with us still."

While Mr Obama tried to project quietly determined leadership, Joe Biden, his
vice-president offered rawer emotion as he quoted WB Yeats and told families:
"My prayer for you is that with every succeeding year you're able to sing more
than you weep."

Mitt Romney visited with firefighters in Chicago and was last night due to
address a gathering of 4,000 National Guard officers in Reno, Nevada.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                           September 18, 2012 Tuesday

Teen in attack terror: youth, 17, robbed of wallet and mobile in brutal assault

BYLINE: Steven Smith

SECTION: LATEST NEWS (BE LATEST NEWS)

LENGTH: 230 words


DETECTIVES are hunting two men who attacked a teenager from behind, dragged him
to the ground and robbed him in Bournemouth town centre.

Police yesterday said they were asking for witnesses to the brutal attack, which
happened at 2am on Sunday, to come forward.

They said the victim, a 17-year-old Bournemouth man, was walking near the mini
golf course in the Lower Gardens when he was approached from behind by the pair,
who then forced him to the ground.

The men stole his wallet and mobile phone before fleeing in different
directions.

Detective Constable Steve Griffin, of Bournemouth and Poole CID, said: "This was
a nasty attack on a young man in the centre of Bournemouth and he is very lucky
to have only sustained minor injuries.

"This incident happened in an area of Bournemouth that is frequented at all
times of the day and night by members of the public and we believe it is likely
somebody may have some information that can help us in our investigation.

"I urge anyone with any details to contact Dorset Police on 101 in the strictest
confidence."

The offenders are described by police as having shaved heads, aged in their 20s
and of stocky build. They spoke in a foreign language.

Witnesses, or anyone with information on the robbery, should call police on 101,
quoting incident number 16:213.

Alternatively, call the free and anonymous Crimestoppers line on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                    September 18, 2012 Tuesday 12:00 AM GMT

Iran's nuclear chief attacks IAEA 'terrorists'

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 114 words


Iran's nuclear chief said yesterday that "terrorists and saboteurs" may have
infiltrated the International Atomic Energy Agency in an effort to derail his
nation's atomic programme, in an unprecedentedly harsh attack on the integrity
of the UN organisation.

Fereydoun Abbasi also rebuked the United States in comments to the IAEA's
155-nation general conference, reflecting Iran's determination to continue
defying international pressure.

The speech was bound to give a greater voice to hardline Israeli leaders who say
that diplomatic efforts and economic penalties have failed to move Iran, leaving
military strikes as the only alternative to stopping it from developing nuclear
weapons.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2012 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     September 18, 2012 Tuesday 5:33 PM GMT

Romney's latest offering: How he would plot a terrorist attack on America

BYLINE: Nico Hines, Washington

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 496 words


Mitt Romney came under fire from all sides of the political spectrum today as a
new round of secretly recorded videos emerged in which he offered details on how
he would plot a terrorist attack on America.

His latest candid remarks were released after clips that showed him casually
insulting 47 per cent of Americans as feckless government dependents.

Believing he was talking in private, with no reporters or cameras in attendance,
Mr Romney later moved on to the subject of the Middle East. "If I were Iran," he
told the roomful of donors at a Flordia fundraising event who had paid at least
$50,000 (£30,700) to attend, "I'd say let's get a little fissile material to
Hezbollah, have them carry it to Chicago."

In this scenario, once he had installed the nuclear material in the President's
hometown, he said: "Then if anything goes wrong, or America starts acting up,
we'll just say, 'Guess what? Unless you stand down, why, we're going to let off
a dirty bomb'."

Mr Romney also dismissed the notion of a lasting peace settlement in the Middle
East, arguing that the Palestinians had no interest in an end to the violence.
He said a two-state solution was unworkable despite being official American
policy since the foundation of Israel in 1948.

The Republican presidential candidate's most damaging remarks concerned domestic
policy, however. His brusque dismissal of almost 150 million Americans has
forced one of his most prominent backers to finally lose patience.

Bill Kristol, a leading voice on America's Right, decried the state of the race
in an editorial today. "Romney's comments are stupid and arrogant," he said.

In the clips Mr Romney also spoke about his own personal fortune and said he
would have a better chance in the election if he were Latino. "Frankly, I was
born with a silver spoon in my mouth," he said.

The source of the video clips is unknown although some of them have been
available to view on YouTube for months without attracting much attention. The
left-wing magazine Mother Jones collated them and published new excerpts on the
day Romney strategists admitted that they needed to reboot the campaign.

The Obama campaign leapt on the video, which was discovered by James Carter, the
grandson of the former president Jimmy Carter. "It's hard to serve as president
for all Americans when you've disdainfully written off half the nation," said
Jim Messina, the Obama campaign manager.

While Conservative activists gleefully suggested the video was proof that Mr
Romney was one of them, some analysts suggested the candid footage marked a
major turning point in the election. Bloomberg even published an editorial
claiming this was the night that Mr Obama won re-election.

About 46 per cent of Americans owed no federal income tax in 2011 although many
of them paid other forms of tax. Mr Romney has refused to disclose details of
his own affairs - most of his wealth comes from capital gains, however, largely
exempting him from paying income tax.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday

Kenyan paper calls for vigilance against terror attacks

LENGTH: 295 words


Text of editorial entitled "Public must remain vigilant against terror"
published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 20
September

It is necessary to remind all Kenyans to remain vigilant as our soldiers in the
Africa Mission in Somalia (Amisom) prepare for assault on Kismaayo [southern
Somalia].

This is important after it emerged that only a mishap prevented terror suspects
from fulfilling their suicide missions in Kenya last week: Their car broke down.
Among their alleged targets were parliament, churches and various other sites in
Kisumu and Mombasa.

From all accounts, the police were fortunate - and thankfully so - to stumble
upon the suspects and their deadly paraphernalia, including suicide vests
similar to those used in the attempted attack on the new Somalia president and a
Kenyan delegation.

Intelligence remains the biggest weapon in preventing terror attacks of the kind
favoured by Al-Shabab, and the public can help by informing police of any
suspicious activities or individuals.

Our intention is not to scare, but to be forewarned is to be forearmed.

The police cannot be everywhere and Kenyans must take control of their security
by cooperating with law enforcers.

The attempt to kill President Hasan Shaykh Mahmud and the Kenyan delegation led
by Foreign Affairs Minister Sam Ongeri is a clear indication that despite recent
losses against Amisom and Somali troops, Al-Shabab remains a real threat and it
will be awhile before the country can truly be declared safe.

It is a delicate situation with Amisom working hard to ensure a smooth handover
between President Mahmud and his predecessor Sharif Shaykh Ahmad amid tension
following the assassination attempt.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 20 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                          September 20, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Scot is one of 12 killed in terror attack on Afghanistan minibus

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 213 words


A WOMAN killed when a suicide bomber attacked a packed minibus in Afghanistan
was due to return home to Edinburgh this weekend.

Jeni Ayris, 47, died alongside 11 fellow aviation workers when a female
terrorist rammed a car filled with explosives into their bus as they drove to
the airport in Kabul.

Militant Islamist group Hezb-a-Islami has claimed responsibility for the attack,
saying it was carried out in retaliation for a US-made film criticising the
Prophet Mohammed.

Her sister Patricia, of Rosewell, Midlothian, said yesterday: "To think I was
only days away from seeing my sister. That's all I want, just one more day with
her.

"I was just sitting at home when I got the call to say that Jeni died. I was
told she was killed in a roadside bombing. I couldn't believe it. She's spent
around 17 months out there in total."

South African-born Ms Ayris had been working in Afghanistan for just over a year
as a customer relations manager for aviation firm Air Charter
Solutions/BalmOral, organising private flights for charities and NGOs.

She had previously owned and run the popular café Ndebele in Edinburgh.

A former employee at the café, Gary Dobson, said: "We all aspired to be more
like her. As her employee the distinction between 'boss' and 'friend' blurred
very quickly."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jeni Ayris, right, died after working in Afghanistan for 17 months; she
was well known in Edinburgh for her cafe, Ndebele, left

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 20, 2012 Thursday 6:23 AM GMT

Benghazi assault a 'terrorist attack but not pre-planned';
Last week's deadly assault on a US diplomatic mission in the Libyan city of
Benghazi was a "terrorist attack" but probably not a pre-planned operation, a
senior US official said on Wednesday.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 407 words


The attack, which left four  Americans including US Ambassador Chris Stevens
dead, was carried out on the 11th anniversary of the September 11 attacks and
amid protests in the Muslim world against an anti-Islamic film.

In Washington, where President Barack Obama's election rival Mitt Romney has
criticised the handling of the attack, there has been keen interest in whether
the attackers were simply an angry mob or an organised gang.

On Wednesday, the director of the US government's National Counterterrorism
Center told lawmakers that, while many questions remain to be answered, he was
prepared to describe the killings as "a terrorist attack."

But the director, Matthew Olsen, immediately qualified that statement.

"The best information we have now, the facts that we have now indicate that this
was an opportunistic attack on our embassy," he told the Senate Homeland
Security Committee, under questioning from Senator Joe Lieberman.

"The attack began and evolved and escalated over several hours at our embassy -
our diplomatic post in Benghazi. It evolved and escalated over several hours,"
he said, emphasising that a US investigation was continuing.

US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was due to address lawmakers on Thursday
at a closed door secret intelligence briefing, but in the meantime Olsen
confirmed that the Islamist militant group al-Qaeda was among the suspects.

"At this point, what I would say is that a number of different elements appear
to have been involved in the attack, including individuals connected to militant
groups that are prevalent in eastern Libya," he said.

"We are looking at indications that individuals involved in the attack may have
had connections to al-Qaeda or al-Qaeda's affiliates, in particular, al-Qaeda in
the Islamic Maghreb."

Benghazi was the cradle of last year's Libyan revolt that ousted strongman
Moamer Kadhafi, and the region is still prey to several loosely-organised
militia groups with varying degrees of ties to the interim government.

Initial reports into Tuesday's attack on the US consulate suggested that it had
been assaulted by protesters angered by an amateur movie produced by private US
Christian groups deemed insulting to the Prophet Mohammed.

But the gang that stormed the compound and torched the consulate was heavily
armed, and Libyan officials have said that a militant group took advantage of
the protest to launch a pre-planned attack.

Source: agencies

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 21, 2012 Friday

FREED TERROR SUSPECT WAS BEHIND US EMBASSY ATTACK'

BYLINE: BY DAVID GARDNER

LENGTH: 220 words


A TERROR suspect freed from Guantanamo Bay is believed to be the mastermind
behind the attack in Libya that killed US ambassador Chris Stevens.

Libyan Sufyan Ben Qumu - said to have once been Osama Bin Laden's personal
driver - was let out of the prison camp in 2007 and handed over to Colonel
Gaddafi on the condition he was kept behind bars.

But Gaddafi released the 53-year-old in a 2010 amnesty celebrating his 41st year
in power and Qumu emerged during the subsequent uprising as a leader of the
rebels.

According to America's Fox News, investigators believe Qumu was involved in the
September 11 attack on the US consulate in Benghazi. Sources are convinced the
attack - in which three other Americans died - was directly tied to Al Qaeda.

After initially describing the raid as a spontaneous' incident, a top Obama
aide, counterterrorism centre director Matt Olsen, changed tack yesterday to
call it a terrorist attack'.

The US military characterized Qumu as a medium to high' risk while he was at
Guantanamo Bay. The Libyan army veteran once worked for one of Bin Laden's
holding companies in Sudan and also fought alongside the Taliban in Afghanistan.

He was arrested in Pakistan by local authorities shortly after the US invasion
of Afghanistan and taken to Guantanamo Bay, where he was held for six years.

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2012 Saturday

Kenyan police issue alert over "terror attacks"

LENGTH: 946 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati entitled "Police issues alert on terror attacks"
published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 22
September; subheadings as published

Police have issued a terror alert over credible intelligence that indicate two
Egyptians, two Moroccans and French national who left Kismaayo in [southern]
Somalia last week headed for a terrorism mission in the country.

Commissioner of Police Mathew Iteere says they are yet to know if the suspects
are already in the country but wants the public to help in tacking and informing
them in case they are sighted.

Public appeal

"We are appealing to any person who might have or come across information on
their whereabouts to make an immediate report to the nearest police officer or
other person in authority for further action. Any information offered will be
treated in stick confidence," said Iteere in a statement.

He said one of the Egyptians is a trained bomb assembler and is out to ensure
many of the explosives are supplied and used.

Iteere made the remarks as Kenya sent more security personnel to major entry
points to the main Somalia borders ahead of the imminent entry of troops into
Kismaayo.

The bomb expert is identified as Mahmoud Abdel Aziz Hassan born in 1985 and is
among tens of foreigners who have been fighting with the Somalia militants
Al-Shabab.

The second suspect is Moroccan Salim Si Mohamed born in 1984 while the third
terror suspect is Nadane Si Mohamed born in 1980.

The fourth suspect is an Egyptian identified as Muhammad Ali Mahmud Khalifa born
in 1986 and Frenchman Rachid Benomar born in 1973.

Police spokesman Eric Kiraithe said intelligence reports have shown the men are
dangerous with a bad mission in the country.

The development came as police seized a car that was to be used to ferry
explosives and weapons that were seized last week.

The car was seized from a garage in Eastleigh [Nairobi estate with a large
Somali population] as it emerged the eight missing terror suspects may have
slipped to Garissa or Dadaab where they are hiding.

Investigations show the plan to attack churches and a presidential event was
well planned several weeks ago.

This according to police forced President Kibaki's security details to postpone
his trip to Mombasa by a day when he opened the local ASK [Agricultural Society
of Kenya] Show.

The team has since learnt that the terrorists planned to travel to Nyeri
[central Kenya] on Thursday night ahead of Kibaki's visit to the area to open
the local show.

Plans upset

Their plans were however thwarted after the red Peugeot car that has been seized
broke down.

The suspects in custody have told police they planned to among others blow up
four churches and shoot at the congregations in the city other than targeting
the presidential event.

The suicide bombers had been dispatched by Somalia's Al-Shabab terrorists and
were to blow themselves up in the targeted sites and target two senior
politicians.

All the improvised explosives were designed to be detonated by remote control,
using mobile telephone handsets.

Detectives handling the case were shocked to find out that the phones' SIM cards
had been registered under the names of prominent politicians.

Officers said they could have been used as code names, but would not rule out
that the politicians could have been targeted for assassination.

The politicians' security has since been enhanced.

Further investigations are being done to recover the identification documents
the terrorists presented when seeking registration.

This was after it emerged the gang had arrived in Kenya last month posing as
refugees and later drove to Nairobi through Garissa [northeastern Kenya].

The latest group which formed part of the gang was arrested on 6 September along
Thika Road as they drove from Garissa aboard a bus for Nairobi.

The two, including a secondary school girl Halima Hassan Charfi of Moi Girls
Secondary School in Marsabit [northern Kenya] and Ashraf Yassin Abdulrahman,
were later charged with being members of Al-Shabab.

Yassin pleaded guilty of being in the country illegally. Halima had escaped
school in 2010 in Marsabit and joined the terror group after being recruited by
recruits based at Majengo [eastern Nairobi].

Police have since established she was in Kismaayo with Yassin where she received
training on suicide bombing.

In the seizure of the suicide vests, each of the suicide bombers was to carry at
least three hand grenades, besides wearing a specially made vest laden with
explosives.

Investigations show they were to be escorted by men with AK-47 assault rifles
who would also be carrying two extra magazines. Each magazine carries at least
30 rounds of ammunition.

The plan was thwarted after officers from the Special Crimes Prevention Unit and
Flying Squad raided a house in Eastleigh at around 1a.m. [2200 gmt] on Friday
and arrested Mr Abdimajid Yassin Mohammed alias Ali Hussein and Mr Omar Abdi
alias Adan Salman Abdi.

Mr Mohammed pleaded guilty when he was charged with nine terrorism counts, while
Mr Abdi denied having committed the offences.

The gunmen were also to open fire at police officers in order to force their way
past security checks so as to reach politicians.

The Scotland Yard detectives and those from Israel have been holding meetings at
the ATPU [Anti-Terrorism Police Unit] headquarters since the terror plan was
unearthed.

The weapons recovered included four suicide bombers' vests, 12 hand grenades,
four AK-47 assault rifles, 481 rounds of ammunition and two home-made bombs.

Police said the explosives would be analysed for DNA evidence left by those who
assembled them.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 22 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 22, 2012
                                 First Edition

Troops kill three militants, halting 'major terror attack';
Panorama Around the world in 10 stories ISRAEL

BYLINE: Aron Heller IN JERUSALEM; AP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 175 words


Israeli troops shot and killed three militants attempting to enter the country
from Egypt yesterday, and one Israeli soldier died thwarting what Israel said
was a major terror attack.

Military spokeswoman Avital Leibovich said the militants were armed with weapons
and were wearing explosive belts and flak jackets. She said they opened fire on
troops guarding a team of workers building a border fence between Israel and
Egypt's lawless Sinai desert.

Egyptian intelligence officials said the attackers had crossed the border and
that one of the three militants blew himself up inside Israel.

The officials said an intelligence team had been dispatched to Israel to inspect
the bodies of the militants and was looking to take them back to Egypt for
further investigation. They said Egypt had also boosted security on its side of
the border.

The Israel-Egypt border has become increasingly volatile since the fall of Hosni
Mubarak last year. Israel has repeatedly warned Egypt's new authorities of the
deteriorating situation and growing militancy in Sinai. AP

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2012 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    September 22, 2012 Saturday 6:41 PM GMT

Beware of bike bombs! Police guarding Lib Dem conference remove BICYCLES from
nearby railings amid risk of terror attack

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 252 words


Police are taking no risks when it comes to security at the Liberal Democrat
conference in Brighton.

Officers were spotted seizing cycles from the seafront yesterday as part of a
precautionary measure to prevent terrorists from planting so-called bike bombs.

The cycles were removed from bike racks situated just 100 yards from the
Brighton Centre where Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg will address the
conference next week.

The Lib Dem leader and other high-ranking ministers are staying at the Grand
Hotel which is situated next to the the Brighton Centre.

Security is tight as the spectre of the 1984 Brighton bombing, where IRA
terrorists attempted to kill then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher at the Grand
Hotel, still looms large.

Yellow signs warning cyclists that bikes left at the racks would be removed
during the event were put up several days ago.

However, these photos show that owners either failed to notice or chose to
ignore the warnings and police were seen removing two bikes at about 5.40pm on
Friday.

The seizures of the cycles from conference 'queue points' on the sea front came
just half an hour after police had removed other bikes from the same spot.

The council, police, emergency services and conference industry representatives
have been jointly planning the conference for months.

A temporary fence has been put up around the Brighton Centre and Grand Hotel to
provide security.

An estimated 8000 delegates are expected to attend the event, which will inject
around £15m into the local economy.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2012 Monday

Libyan speaker apologizes to US over consulate attack, blames "terror" groups

LENGTH: 800 words


Text of report by Italian leading privately-owned centre-left newspaper La
Repubblica, on 22 September

[Interview with Libyan parliamentary Speaker Muhammad al-Magaryaf by Vincenzo
Nigro in Tripoli on September 21: "Libya, the Speaker's Alert, 'The Blasphemous
Film Has Nothing To Do With It, Some People Here Want Terror'"]

Tripoli - "I have already done so, and I do so again: Libya apologizes to the
United States, and to the people of the whole world, for what happened at the
consulate in Benghazi. A friend of Libya and three of his colleagues were
killed, the protests against a film that insults Muhammad have nothing to do
with that attack, groups are present here in Libya which have a different agenda
from that of the Libyan people. We want democracy, prosperity, and security.
They want terror."

At 10 o'clock yesterday morning, after a night of political meetings (in Libya
the new government is being formed), the parliamentary Speaker, Muhammad
al-Magaryaf, invited us to take a seat at his breakfast table. Al-Magaryaf has
the de facto rank of head of state, until the approval of the new Constitution,
"last week I was supposed to come to Italy to meet with President Napolitano and
Prime Minister Monti, [but] I postponed it because of the attack, but I will
come soon: In the heart of every Libyan there is a special place for Italy, and
we will have to develop our social and economic objectives together."

Since 1980 this university professor in Company Management had been fleeing Col
Al-Qadhafi and his hit squads: He lived as an exile first in Morocco and then in
Egypt, managing to flee those countries before King Hassan and later Mubarak
could try to "sell" him to Al-Qadhafi. They tried to kill him in London and at
Fiumicino, "then from Egypt I fled to the United States, and I lived there for
almost 30 years: On February 17, the day of the revolution, I was in Atlanta, on
September 28 I returned to my country." Barack Obama called Al-Magaryaf to ask
him for total collaboration over the murder of Ambassador Stevens: "I gave him
an apology from Libya, because there is no point beating about the bush, Libya's
security is the responsibility of Libya. But I asked him to reinforce his
efforts to ensure that the revolution which the United States and Europe backed
is consolidated.

[Nigro] Mr Speaker, who was it? Everybody is pointing the finger at the Ansar
al-Shariah militiamen, but they have denied it.

[Al-Magaryaf] Members of Ansar al-Shariah were involved in the attack, we know
of a split in their leadership, and we believe that other militiamen may have
been involved in the assault, individuals who have an agenda of terror for
Libya, and who do not want democracy. We are collaborating with the United
States, and we welcome President Obama's balanced decision to help us to find
out who are the real culprits on the actual ground, before undertaking actions
which would make everything more confused. The US Administration is working
wisely, so as not to waste the positive results of the revolution.

[Nigro] You have admitted that security in the country is still lacking.

[Al-Magaryaf] That is obvious to everyone, and the assault in Benghazi is only
the most serious case. On the ground many militias are present, including groups
that took part in the revolution, and that now belong to those violent groups
that want to deny Libya democracy. It is no coincidence that they chose
September 11 to strike.

[Nigro] Until you form a stable government, you will not be able to talk about
security. And yet the parties have already started to quarrel.

[Al-Magaryaf] These are our priorities: recreating a national army, reorganizing
the internal security apparatus, and the police; gathering the weapons which are
everywhere in the country; and beginning a process of national reconciliation,
not to mention reform of the judicial system. For this, we need a strong and
united government. That is what we expect from the parties.

[Nigro] The surprise election of Abu Shagur as prime minister has irritated
Mahmoud Jibril, who thought he had the post sown up.

[Al-Magaryaf] Abu Shagur will have to work at all costs for a government of
national unity that involves all the forces on Libyan politics. Ind eed, Jibril
was too sure of himself, because he had had a good election success, but the
parliamentary votes went to Shagur. They will have to work together for Libya.

[Nigro] Mr Speaker, a question on the Italy-Libya accord signed by Al-Qadhafi
and Berlusconi. Is it still valid?

[Al-Magaryaf] It is valid, but it was signed by Al-Qadhafi in his interests: All
those sections which are not in the interests of the Libyan people will need to
be reviewed. But our interest in collaborating with Italy is very great.

Source: La Repubblica, Rome, in Italian 22 Sep 12 p 19

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 24, 2012 Monday

Ugandan police warn of terror attacks

LENGTH: 257 words


Text of report by Frederic Musisi entitled "Kayihura warns of plot to burn city"
published by leading privately-owned Ugandan newspaper The Daily Monitor website
on 24 September

The Inspector General of Police [IGP], Kale Kayihura, has cautioned the public
about plans by some terrorist groups to set certain structures in Kampala on
fire.

Addressing journalists, Maj-Gen Kayihura said police has information about a
group of people in Kiseka market who have been hired by terrorist groups
operating internationally to torch the city.

Gen Kayihura said members of the public should be vigilant, and should report
strange and suspicious persons in their communities. He said police was on high
alert in the targeted places.

The IGP also warned politicians, business people and religious leaders of
kidnapping, which he says is a new form of terrorism targeting them. This
follows the foiled kidnap of Thakkar Ketter Kumar of the Indian Gujarat
community. He was rescued by Police Special Investigations Unit.

Ms Kumar, a business lady at Old Kampala was kidnapped a few days ago by Rafaqa
Mohammed of Pakistani origin.

Kayihura said the suspect belongs to an eight-member Pakistani terrorist group
led by Sarafraz Anwal from Peshawar, who had requested for a 70,000 dollars
ransom to be wired to Pakistan and are also wanted by the International Police.

Rafaqa entered the country in February 2012 on a student's Visa programme and
has been masking as a Kampala International University student.

Source: Daily Monitor website, Kampala, in English 24 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           September 25, 2012 Tuesday

International: US drone attacks 'terrorise' tribal areas of Pakistan: Obama
administration blamed for rise in strikes: Targeted killings threaten rule of
law, says report

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott, Legal affairs correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 790 words


The CIA's programme of "targeted" drone killings in Pakistan's tribal heartlands
is politically counterproductive, kills large numbers of civilians and
undermines respect for international law, according to a report by US academics.

The study, by Stanford and New York Universities, based on interviews with
victims, witnesses and experts, blames Barack Obama for the rise of "signature
strikes" where groups are selected through remote "pattern of life" analysis.

Families are afraid to attend weddings or funerals, it says, in case US ground
operators guiding drones misinterpret them as gatherings of Taliban or al-Qaida
militants. "The dominant narrative about the use of drones in Pakistan is of a
surgically precise and effective tool that makes the US safer by enabling
'targeted killings' of terrorists, with minimal downsides or collateral impacts.
This narrative is false," the report, Living Under Drones, states.

The authors admit it is difficult to obtain accurate data on casualties "because
of US efforts to shield the drone programme from democratic accountability,
compounded by obstacles to independent investigation of strikes in North
Waziristan".

The "best available information", they say, is that between 2,562 and 3,325
people have been killed in Pakistan between June 2004 and mid-September this
year, of whom between 474 and 881 were civilians, including 176 children. The
figures have been assembled by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism ,which
estimated that a further 1,300 individuals were injured in drone strikes over
that period.

The report was commissioned by the London-based Reprieve, which is supporting
action in the British courts by Noor Khan, a Pakistani whose father was killed
by a US drone strike. He alleges the UK is complicit in US strikes because GCHQ,
the eavesdropping agency, shares intelligence with the CIA on targets.

"US drones hover 24 hours a day over communities in north-west Pakistan,
striking homes, vehicles, and public spaces without warning," the American law
schools report says. "Their presence terrorises men, women, and children, giving
rise to anxiety and psychological trauma among civilian communities. These fears
have affected behaviour. The US practice of striking one area multiple times,
and evidence that it has killed rescuers, makes both community members and
humanitarian workers afraid or unwilling to assist injured victims."

The study goes on to say: "Publicly available evidence that the strikes have
made the US safer is ambiguous at best . . . The number of 'high-level'
militants killed as a percentage of total casualties is extremely low -
estimated at just 2% (of deaths). Evidence suggests that US strikes have
facilitated recruitment to violent non-state armed groups, and motivated further
violent attacks . . . One major study shows that 74% of Pakistanis now consider
the US an enemy."

Coming from US law schools rather than overseas human rights groups, the
criticisms are likely to be more influential in domestic debates over the
legality of drone warfare. "US targeted killings and drone strike practices
undermine respect for the rule of law and international legal protections and
may set dangerous precedents," the report says.

"The US government's failure to ensure transparency and accountability in its
targeted killings policies, to provide details about its targeted killing
programme, or adequately to set out the legal factors involved in decisions to
strike hinders necessary . . . debate about a key aspect of US foreign and
national security policy."

The report supports a call by Ben Emmerson QC, the UN's special rapporteur on
countering terrorism, for independent investigations into deaths from drone
strikes and demands the release of US department of justice memorandums
outlining the legal basis for US targeted killings in Pakistan.

The report highlights the switch from George W Bush's practice of targeting
high-profile al-Qaida members to the reliance under Obama of analysing patterns
of life on the ground to select targets. "According to US authorities, these
strikes target 'groups of men who bear certain signatures, or defining
characteristics associated with terrorist activity, but whose identities aren't
known'," the report says. "Just what those 'defining characteristics' are has
never been made public."

Reprieve's director, Clive Stafford Smith, said: "An entire region is being
terrorised by the constant threat of death from the skies . . . George Bush
wanted to create a global 'war on terror' without borders, but it has taken
Obama's drone war to achieve his dream."

Clive Stafford Smith, page 28

176

Estimated number of children killed by US drone strikes in Pakistan between June
2004 and September this year

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 25, 2012 Tuesday

Nigeria braces for escalation in terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Afua Hirschguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1117 words

ABSTRACT

Senior political and military figures say government has lost control of
security amid wave of Boko Haram bombings

FULL TEXT

The Nigerian government has lost control of security, according to its own
advisers, and lacks a coherent strategy to counter the threat of terrorism.

Senior political and military figures have told the Guardian of their growing
pessimism over the government's ability to contain Boko Haram, the Islamist sect
responsible for a deadly wave of bombings and kidnappings in northern Nigeria,
and are bracing themselves for an escalation in attacks.

"We have a serious problem in Nigeria and there is no sense that the government
has a real grip," a senior official close to the government said on condition of
anonymity. "The situation is not remotely under control. It is just a matter of
time before we see more large-scale attacks that pose a significant threat to
national security, and now Nigeria's economic growth is also at risk."

Boko Haram - whose name is often translated as "western education is sinful" -
has become increasingly sophisticated in its operations since first launching
mass attacks in northern Nigeria in 2010.

The sect first began using violence against the Nigerian government and police
in 2003, and is believed to have advanced its operations in recent months by
attracting funding and support from al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb and
al-Shabaab.

In 2009 Boko Haram launched a new phase of operations following the killing of
its leader, Muhammad Yusuf, by police and security forces.

Since then, a spate of deadly church bombings has left hundreds dead, while
attacks on mobile phone base stations have paralysed telecommunications in
northern Nigeria, causing an estimated £3m worth of damage.

The government has attempted to fight back against the sect, and claims to have
killed at least 35 suspected militants earlier this week, and detained 60 others
during raids in Adamawa and Yobe states in northern Nigeria - two of the areas
most affected by the violence.

But its failure to stop Boko Haram attacks has led many to question the
leadership of President Goodluck Jonathan, who promised in March that security
services would have ended the insurgency by June.

A senior defence official, who asked not to be named, expressed concern that the
government had failed to demonstrate the necessary political leadership to
combat the threat posed by Boko Haram.

"Leadership is the problem," said the source. "When we had military
dictatorships in Nigeria, we did not experience this kind of weak
decision-making. There is no way we can combat this threat without more decisive
action. You cannot divorce what is happening from weak leadership and the
failure to repair the divisions in our society."

"The level of poverty in the north, and the way southerners are behaving with
impunity - it is not surprising that there is this level of discontent in
northern Nigeria."

Experts have frequently attributed the rise of Boko Haram to the growing divide
between rich and poor in Nigeria, compounded by regionalism that has often
pitched the largely Christian south against the predominantly Muslim north.

Of the two-thirds of Nigerians - 100 million people - living below the poverty
line, Nigeria's national bureau of statistics said that the number living on
less than one dollar a day was higher in the north, with rates of around 70%,
compared with rates closer to 50% in the south. Much of the north has illiteracy
rates of above 75%.

"These acts are a reaction against decades of neglect," the source close to the
government said. "They are similar factors to what we saw driving revolution in
the Arab spring.

"The Boko Haram phenomenon underlines the failure of the Nigerian state," said
Manir Dan Ali, editor of the Daily Trust newspaper. "The government has ignored
the advice of its own security officials, who warned of the danger signals long
ago, and worse, lacks a coherent strategy for dealing with the problem and its
underlining causes of poverty, neglect and a lack of opportunities for the
young."

Resentment towards the Nigerian authorities has been compounded by human rights
abuses, including extra-judicial killings, experts say.

"Male members of security forces have been going in and raiding women's quarters
- terrifying the women and humiliating the men," said Chidi Odinkalu, chair of
Nigeria's national human rights commission. "These are minimal things that the
state should be able to achieve - to train the soldiers on these sensitivities
and use female soldiers. You can't fight an insurgency by alienating part of the
community."

The source close to the government said: "There are middle-ranking senior
officers who understand the counter-productive nature of raids and extrajudicial
executions. But that understanding is not filtering down quickly enough to
junior officers - they are making bad decisions and they are not adequately
trained. The police are ethically broken, and the armed forces don't trust the
police.

"If you talk to Nigerians in the north, the misbehaviour of the security forces
has become a significant factor in strengthening support for Boko Haram."

The military said it had addressed the problem of abuses by security services
and changed its approach to operations in northern Nigeria. "We are beginning to
win the hearts and minds of the people," said Colonel Muhammad Yerima, director
of defence information. "We are closing in on the terrorists - the more we catch
them and interrogate them and get information, and stop the people that are
supporting them, the more we will be able to combat this threat."

But the relationship between Boko Haram and officials is complex, experts say,
with some members of the security services assisting the sect. "Some members of
the security forces have been working as double agents," said Adunola Abiola,
founder of Think Security Africa, a thinktank specialising in security issues in
Africa.

"Improved and regular vetting of security personnel is very important for
improving security management in the country generally."

The Nigerian government has been under renewed pressure to combat Boko Haram
since the US decided to designate three members of the sect as foreign
terrorists, giving US authorities powers under US law to take action.

"This designation would in theory give various departments and agencies in the
US government the power to actively pursue these men which could in theory
result in a violation of Nigeria's sovereignty and possibly even territorial
integrity," said Abiola. "It was severely embarrassing for the federal
government and reinforced domestic criticism that it was incapable of performing
the most basic of sovereign functions."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 25, 2012 Tuesday 11:28 AM GMT

'US drone attacks are counter-productive and terrorise civilians';
CIA drone attacks are counter-productive as they kill civilians and rescue
workers and increase recruitment by militant groups, a new report concludes.

LENGTH: 466 words


Civilians are being "terrorised" 24 hours a day by CIA drone attacks that target
mainly low-level militants in north-west Pakistan, a report by Stanford and New
York Universities says.

It claims that follow-up strikes are also killing rescuers who set out to treat
the injured.

The report, made up of interviews with victims, witnesses and experts, pins
blame on US President Barack Obama for the recent increase in "signature
strikes" which target groups selected through "pattern of life analysis" and
which have resulted in large, innocent groups attending weddings and funerals
being killed.

It states: "US drones hover 24 hours a day over communities in north-west
Pakistan, striking homes, vehicles, and public spaces without warning.

"Their presence terrorises men, women, and children, giving rise to anxiety and
psychological trauma among civilian communities. Those living under drones have
to face the constant worry that a deadly strike may be fired at any moment, and
the knowledge that they are powerless to protect themselves.

"These fears have affected behaviour. The US practice of striking one area
multiple times, and evidence that it has killed rescuers, makes both community
members and humanitarian workers afraid or unwilling to assist injured victims."

The report entitled Living Under Drones calls into question the effectiveness of
drone attacks as a weapon against terrorism in Pakistan, stating that it is
overplayed by the US government.

It says: "The dominant narrative about the use of drones in Pakistan is of a
surgically precise and effective tool that makes the US safer by enabling
'targeted killings' of terrorists, with minimal downsides or collateral impacts.
This narrative is false."

Drone attacks are thought to have killed hundreds of militants in Yemen and
Afghanistan as well as Pakistan, including Senior al-Qaeda and Taliban leaders.

But the report highlights the difficulty in obtaining accurate data on
casualties "because of US efforts to shield the drone programme from democratic
accountability, compounded by obstacles to independent investigation of strikes
in North Waziristan".

The "best available information", they say, is that between 2,562 and 3,325
people have been killed in Pakistan between June 2004 and mid-September this
year - of whom between 474 and 881 were civilians, including 176 children. The
figures have been assembled by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, which
estimated that a further 1,300 individuals were injured in drone strikes over
that period.

Hours before the report was released, another drone strike hit the Mir Ali area
of North Waziristan, killing eight fighters, most of them Uzbeks and Tajiks, a
spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban told the BBC. Pakistani intelligence
officials earlier said five had been killed.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                          September 26, 2012 Wednesday

International: Nigeria has lost grip on security, state officials warn: Senior
sources condemn lack of terrorism strategy: More large-scale attacks by Boko
Haram predicted

BYLINE: Afua Hirsch, Lagos

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 780 words


The Nigerian government has lost control of security and lacks a coherent
strategy to counter the threat of terrorism, according to its own advisers.

Senior political and military figures have told the Guardian of their growing
pessimism over the state's ability to contain Boko Haram, the Islamist sect
behind a deadly wave of bombings and kidnappings in northern Nigeria, and are
bracing themselves for an escalation in attacks.

"There is no sense that the government has a real grip," a senior official close
to the government said on condition of anonymity. "The situation is not remotely
under control. It is just a matter of time before we see more large-scale
attacks that pose a significant threat to national security, and now Nigeria's
economic growth is also at risk."

Boko Haram - whose name is often translated as "western education is sinful" -
has become increasingly sophisticated in its operations since first launching
mass attacks in northern Nigeria in 2010.

The sect first began using violence against the government and police in 2003,
and is believed to have advanced its operations in recent months by attracting
funding and support from other terrorist groups such as al-Qaida in the Islamic
Maghreb and al-Shabaab.

In 2009 Boko Haram launched a new phase of operations following the killing of
its leader, Muhammad Yusuf, by police and security forces.

Since then, church bombings have left hundreds dead, while attacks on mobile
phone base stations have paralysed telecommunications in the north, causing an
estimated £3m worth of damage.

The government has tried to fight back, and claims to have killed at least 35
militants this week, and detained 60 others during raids. But its failure to
stop attacks has led many to question the leadership of President Goodluck
Jonathan, who promised in March that security services would end the insurgency
by June.

A senior defence official, who asked not to be named, said: "Leadership is the
problem . . . There is no way we can combat this threat without more decisive
action. You cannot divorce what is happening from weak leadership and the
failure to repair the divisions in our society."

Experts have attributed the rise of Boko Haram to the growing divide between
rich and poor, compounded by regionalism that has often pitched the largely
Christian south against the mostly Muslim north.

Two-thirds of Nigerians - 100 million people - live on less than a dollar a day,
according to Nigeria's national bureau of statistics, but that rate rises to
around 70% in the north, compared with closer to 50% in the south. Much of the
north has illiteracy rates of above 75%.

"These acts are a reaction against decades of neglect," the source close to the
government said. "There are similar factors to what we saw driving revolution in
the Arab spring.

Manir Dan Ali, editor of the Daily Trust newspaper, said: "The Boko Haram
phenomenon underlines the failure of the Nigerian state.

"The government has ignored the advice of its own security officials, who warned
of the danger signals long ago, and worse, lacks a coherent strategy for dealing
with the problem and its underlying causes of poverty, neglect and a lack of
opportunities for the young."

Resentment towards the Nigerian authorities has been compounded by human rights
abuses, including extra-judicial killings, experts say.

"Male members of security forces have been going in and raiding women's quarters
- terrifying the women and humiliating the men," said Chidi Odinkalu, of
Nigeria's national human rights commission. "These are minimal things that the
state should be able to achieve - to train the soldiers on these sensitivities
and use female soldiers."

The source close to the government said: "If you talk to Nigerians in the north,
the misbehaviour of the security forces has become a significant factor in
strengthening support for Boko Haram."

The military said it had addressed the problem of abuses by security services
and changed its approach. "We are beginning to win the hearts and minds of the
people," said Colonel Muhammad Yerima, director of defence information.

"We are closing in on the terrorists - the more we catch them and interrogate
them and get information, and stop the people that are supporting them, the more
we will be able to combat this threat."

But the relationship between Boko Haram and officials is complex, experts say.
"Some members of the security forces have been working as double agents," said
Adunola Abiola, founder of Think Security Africa, a thinktank specialising in
security issues in Africa.

Captions:

President Goodluck Jonathan promised the insurgency would be over by last June
but Boko Haram attacks continue

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                          September 27, 2012 Thursday

Man on trial accused of anti-Israel terror attack in Cyprus

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 95 words


Cyprus: trial of man believed to be involved in the planning of a suspected
anti-Israel terrorist attack. Hosham Taleb, 24, a Swedish national of Lebanese
descent, originally faced 17 charges incl espionage and conspiracy to commit a
terrorist attack, but his lawyer Antonis Georgiades said earlier this month they
have now been reduced to eight 'different' ones. A security official said Taleb
- suspected of Hezbollah affiliation - was monitoring and recording the
movements of Israeli tourists before his July arrest

Event Start Date: 2012-09-28

Event End Date: 2012-09-28

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2012 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                           September 28, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Carjacker jailed for terror attack on elderly driver

BYLINE: KIRSTEEN PATERSON

SECTION: NEWS; TEASERS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 222 words


A CARJACKER who threatened to stab a pensioner in the neck with a syringe was
jailed for five years yesterday.

Cameron Paterson jumped into Grace May's car as she finished her shopping at
Silverburn shopping centre in Glasgow.

He told the 73-year-old he had a knife and made her drive around and get him
£200 from a cash machine.

The High Court in Glasgow heard Mrs May had tried to push him from the car but
became 'paralysed with fear'.

Yesterday judge Lord Burns branded Paterson a risk to the public and ordered him
to be monitored for six years on release.

The judge told the 34-year-old: 'The impact on this lady has both physically and
psychologically been profound.

'It has undermined her confidence and has had an effect on the way she lives her
life that will be with her for some time, if not for the rest of her life. You
represent a significant risk to the public.' The incident happened in May and
the court heard Mrs May had tried to placate Paterson with £20 and her mobile
phone.

However, that was rejected because the handset was too old.

Paterson had previously been given an alternative to jail - a community payback
order - a month before the attack on Mrs May and has further convictions for
violence, car theft and disorder.

Tony Graham, defending, said: 'This is a despicable crime and that is accepted
by Mr Paterson.'

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTRscot


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           September 30, 2012 Sunday

Dozens killed in string of car-bomb terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 124 words


The deadliest was in Taji, where three exploded within minutes of each other,
killing eight and wounding 28. One person was killed shortly afterwards in
Baghdad's Shula area when another car bomb detonated. And in Kut, 100 miles
south-east of Baghdad, a minibus driver killed three police officers when he
blew up his car at a checkpoint. Terrorists also struck Kirkuk, where a
policeman died while trying to defuse a parked car bomb. Five people were killed
in attacks on Madain, Khan Bani and Balad Ruz. A second Baghdad bomb killed one
and a roadside bomb in Tarmiyah killed two. The attacks were concentrated in
Shi'ite areas and are thought to be the work of al-Qaida, which established
itself in Iraq after the US-British invasion in 2003.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 1, 2012 Monday

Kenyan daily calls for more vigilance amid recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 737 words


Text of editorial entitled "Post-Kismaayo Kenya is one that must be more
vigilant" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard
website on 1 October, subheading as published

Another Sunday, another grenade attack, another life of an innocent person
taken. Sunday's [30 September] attack in Eastleigh [in Nairobi] targeted at
children was a stark cold reminder that the fight against extremism is not yet
won.

In fact, the journey seems to have just started.

Days after the Kenya Defence Forces [KDF] landed in Kismaayo [southern Somalia],
Kenyans now need to be extra vigilant. Al-Shabab [Somali Islamists] remnants may
take the opportunity to strike the country hard, if even as a last revenge
before they are finally quashed.

While security personnel have done a good job in warding off attacks, more still
needs to be done.

Recent deterrence of one of the biggest planned attacks in the cities of Nairobi
and Mombasa goes to showcase how serious a threat Al-Shabab is still to the
Kenyan public.

For one, as a country we must now not allow for sectarian violence to follow the
attacks.

Whoever is planning and carrying out the attacks on innocent victims hopes to
spark sectarian violence between religions and also communities.

And that is why yesterday's news that the people of Eastleigh yesterday turned
to attacking people of Somali origin is not very good news.

By so doing, we will be falling exactly into the plans of the attackers - that
is to cause anarchy.

Such attacks need to be dismissed and condemned in the strongest terms possible.

Security organs need to be on full alert to deter any such reprisals that could
spin out of control and result in an untold suffering.

That KDF and Amisom [African Union Mission in Somalia] has captured Kismaayo is
a good thing.

However, as the reign of Al-Shabab's terror approaches its end, there is need
for extra vigilance lest we fall prey to the last kicks of the infamous group.

Kismaayo is the economic livelihood of the Al-Shabab. This supply root needs to
be cut out completely, starving off the Al-Shabab.

Then there is need to create a buffer zone between Kenya and Somalia - a neutral
zone, a constantly patrolled zone.

We then need to relocate the refugees back to their countries.

When Kenyan government moved into Somalia to make a very bold statement about
the seriousness of the country's commitment to protecting its borders, it did
not foresee the war evolving into a broader international ideological conflict.

The involvement of international jihadists in the conflict has raised the stakes
in the war.

This has changed the war to both a military and an ideological war.

Jihad incubator

KDF must also fight Al-Shabab not only outside the country but within it, a
development which raises the question of the war being a long drawn out one.

Then there is the continued 'statelessness' in Somalia and that has increased
the militarisation of clannist and religious militia in the country.

This needs to be addressed concurrently. It is good news that a new government
is in place. It is also encouraging to hear that plans to create a buffer zone
ruled by a friendly clan is in the works and progressing well.

But perhaps complicating the equation are recent reports that Somalia - and some
reports also indicate Kenya - is slowly becoming an incubator for international
jihadists is not very good development.

Other countries must also come to the aid of Kenya as it is not fighting the war
for herself alone.

Towards this end, it is encouraging to see that the US has offered support for
the war in the form of military training and equipment to Kenyan forces.

The US have also been involved in drone attacks against Al-Shabab in Somalia.

Other countries that are involved in Somalia include Uganda, Burundi and
Ethiopia.

There is no doubt that the war against Al-Shabab will be won. Until then, every
day is a challenge that we must live up to.

Critically underfunded, relatively disorganized and incapable of fighting on
various fronts, Al-Shabab has gradually been weakened.

One other thing is clear, that the Al-Shabab war is not limited to Somalia but
is part of a broader global ideological war beyond the region.

Kenya - and Kenyans - must stand together and deal with the Al-Shabab issue once
and for all. Such a victory also needs to be decisive and clear cut.

Anything in between is very dangerous.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 1 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 1, 2012 Monday

Yemeni president, US official discuss drone attacks, terrorism

LENGTH: 205 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

["Hadi Recieves U.S Deputy Secretary of Defence" - SABA Headline]

Washington, 30 Sep (Saba) - President Abd-Rabbuh Mansur Hadi received, at his
residence in Washington on Sunday [30 September], the US deputy secretary of
defence, Ashton B Carter.

At the meeting, Hadi asserted the significance of holding control over
operations carry out by drones and to be only when it is absolutely necessary in
order to avoid the terrorists' damage in implementing attacks by such aircrafts.
In return, the US official expressed his welcome on the visit of President Hadi
to the USA, noting to his country's readiness to offer the required support,
particularly in fields of training and rehabilitation as well as in the
technical sides in various military disciplines.

He also confirmed the importance of setting up a strategic agreement in order to
establish a partnership in fighting against terrorism aiming to preserve the
security and stability of Yemen.

Carter pointed out to the importance of the Yemeni geopolitical location that
tying it with the local, regional and international interests.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 2055 gmt 30 Sep 12

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                            Global Money Management

                                  October 2012

Terror attack casts long shadow over Algeria's troubled upstream

LENGTH: 1083  words


Derek Brower, LONDON: At least 38 workers at the Tigantourine wet-gas complex,
near In Amenas, Algeria, were killed in a horrific hostage taking in January
that ended with the storming of the plant by Algerian army security forces. As
Petroleum Economist went to press, several more workers remained unaccounted
for. A week after the 16 January attack, when 40 terrorists entered the compound
and took more than 800 workers captive, many details are still unclear.

BP, which operates the project alongside Algeria's state company Sonatrach and
Norway's Statoil, said on 23 January that the fate of four of its employees ""
18 worked at the plant "" remained unknown. Chief executive Bob Dudley said the
company "feared the worst". Statoil said five of its 17 workers were still
missing. Seven Japanese and six Philippine workers were killed, as were workers
from the UK, US, Romania, Algeria, Colombia, France and Malaysia.

Amid conflicting reports, it is unclear how many hostages died while under siege
and how many were killed when Algerian special forces staged their rescue. The
terrorists, who breached the plant's security on 16 January, were reportedly
intent on killing their hostages, triggering the Algerian assault. Three of the
terrorists were captured alive.

France's intervention against Islamists in Mali, said Mokhtar Belmokhtar, a
notorious jihadist and veteran of Algeria's 1990s civil war who claimed
responsibility for the siege, was the motivation for the act of terror. Security
analysts discounted that, saying meticulous planning had gone into the attack,
suggesting it was put in motion months before the French intervention.

That is more worrying, implying the threat has been building with little
attention for some time. Operators in North Africa and the Middle East are now
reviewing their security. Algeria does not allow companies to use private
security forces to protect their assets, although some security firms act as
liaison between investors and the Algerian military.

Algeria's punitive response sent a brutal signal to terrorists targeting its
infrastructure, even if it dismayed some Western governments, which were not
forewarned of the special forces' operation. Within the country, the assault has
been seen as a success.

The attack bore similarities with that in 2004 in Khobar, Saudi Arabia, where
non-Muslim foreign workers were also targeted. Saudi Arabia cracked down on
internal dissidents after that terrorist attack. Algeria will likely do the
same, though the government was swift to cite the involvement of foreign
terrorists "" including at least one Westerner, possibly Canadian "" in the
Tigantourine siege.

Although Algeria's army has the capacity to tighten security, a bigger problem
lies next door. Libya's post-Qadhafi landscape is still riddled with risk. Its
government was unable even to close the border between Libya and Algeria after
the siege near In Amenas. Its southern oil installations are also exposed.
Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, last month warned of the "Pandora's
box" of weapons that had been opened by the 2011 civil war in Libya. In Mali,
another neighbour, French intervention has yet to quell Islamists who now
control much of the north of the country.

Crushing the terrorists may also be a Pyrrhic victory for Algeria. BP, which has
evacuated all its expats from the country, says it remains "committed" to its
"high-class" assets in Algeria. (The Tigantourine facility remains offline,
although BP's In Salah project is still operating.) But other potential
investors will be more reluctant.

Algeria's energy industry is in bad need of rejuvenation and the attack will
profoundly damage its hopes. Oil production in 2011 was just over 1.7 million
barrels a day (b/d), compared with more than 2 million b/d in 2007. Gas output
has fallen from more than 88 billion cubic metres a year (cm/y) in 2005 to 78
billion cm/y in 2011, hindering an export industry that is already under
pressure from high depletion rates and soft demand in Europe, Algeria's main
market. An active rig count of 36 is well beneath highs of more than double that
number seen in the 1980s.

Previously planned amendments to the hydrocarbons law, passed by parliament
after the attack at Tigantourine, were intended to perk up foreign investors'
enthusiasm for the sector, with the government hoping companies would target
offshore prospects and Algeria's vast unconventional oil and gas potential. Some
improvements to the law were made: taxes will be based on profits, not revenue;
and the much-criticised exceptional-profits tax "" a windfall levy that was
deeply unpopular with investors "" will not apply to new contracts.

But even excluding the impact of the terror attack, other aspects of the
hydrocarbons law will continue to deter investors. Sonatrach's mandatory 51%
holding in upstream projects has been expanded to the downstream. The company
keeps its monopoly on energy transportation. The subsidised domestic market has
been made a priority. International prices will apply to production sold
locally, but the mechanisms for setting the price, especially for gas, are
unclear.

Algeria's best prospects are increasingly to be found in its deep south, too.
Given the instability in Mali and Libya, which both share porous southern
borders with Algeria, the country will struggle to persuade investors that it
can provide sufficient protection at remote installations.

Meanwhile, France's war on Islamists in Mali is fraught with risk for Algeria,
which has allowed French fighter jets to use its airspace. From Algeria's
perspective, Western intervention in Libya was hardly a success. The terrorists
who attacked Tigantourine reportedly had help from Islamists in Libya, and some
of them may have crossed into Algeria from its eastern neighbour. After fighting
a brutal civil war to crush its own Islamists, Algeria will view dimly the
growing terrorist threat next door and the possibility of more chaos in Mali.

Nor will Algeria welcome the words of UK prime minister David Cameron, who said
last month that the West was now engaged in a conflict with North African
terrorists that could last "decades".

Such language will scare investors. The chief executive of Statoil, Helge Lund,
said last month that the oil industry was at a "crossroad" in North Africa. "We
have a responsibility to run our business and support our daily operations," he
said, "we cannot and will not let a terrorist attack interfere in our
determination."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: GMM


              Copyright 2012 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday

Kenyan clerics condemn terror attack on church

LENGTH: 384 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "Clerics condemn attack in city church"
published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 2 October

Religious leaders were on Monday [1 October] united in condemning Sunday's
attack on children at a church in Nairobi with calls for the government to beef
up security in places of worship.

The terrorist attack directed at children attending a Sunday school service at
St Polycarp Anglican church was widely condemned by leaders from across the
religious divide with many saying the young ones should not have been subjected
to such brutality.

The condemnations came as the critically injured boy admitted to the intensive
care unit on Sunday was moved to the general ward after a successful operation.

Religious leaders unanimously denounced the explosion at the church that killed
a nine-year-old boy and injured several others.

They said the incident was a terrorist act that should not be allowed to divide
Kenyans along religious lines.

The Inter-Religious Council of Kenya said the action was regrettable but should
not be allowed to cause rifts among religions.

"As the country bleeds and mourns as a result of these actions, let no one cite
religion as the reason for committing this heinous crime," said the council in a
statement read by its chairman Adan Wachu, who is also the Supreme Council of
Kenya Muslims secretary-general, at the church site in Pangani estate [in
Nairobi].

The council said targeting the underage amounted to sacrilege. "It is a sin to
murder innocent children. All scriptures of all faiths are explicit on the need
to protect children," added the council bringing together Christians, Muslims
and other faiths.

Attacks on the nearby mosque and members of a particular community by irate
youths were similarly condemned.

"We are concerned that after the blast, there were reported stone throwing at a
nearby mosque and damage of property within Eastleigh. These are regrettable
reactions which we deplore," the clerics said.

Earlier, Anglican Archbishop Eliud Wabukala visited the injured children at the
Kenyatta National Hospital.

Meanwhile, eight-year-old Peter Njau who sustained severe head injuries
underwent successful surgery last night and is now recovering.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 2 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday

Terror attacks should never cow citizens - Kenyan newspaper

LENGTH: 308 words


Text of editorial entitled "Terror attacks must never cow Kenyans" published by
Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 2 October

The explosive device that killed a child and left scores injured at an Anglican
church in Nairobi on Sunday [30 September] was yet another stark reminder that a
vicious group bent on destruction is in our midst.

For the past one year, militants have attacked several places, a number of them
churches. Their strategy has been to attack churches under the mistaken belief
that this would stir up religious hostilities between Christians and Muslims.

Whoever is responsible, the Sunday attack illustrates to what depths the
terrorists are willing to go to inflict pain and death.

They targeted a children's prayer corner, knowing pretty well that children need
protection rather than being used as collateral in a war they know nothing
about.

Attacking children smacks of cowardice, moral depravity and utter absence of
human feelings. It is the lowest anyone can go, and justifies why the gangsters
must be pursued and destroyed.

Though it has not been established who actually did it - nobody has claimed
responsibility - there is a good chance that the Somali terror group, Al-Shabab,
could be responsible.

After their dislodgement from Kismaayo last Friday, they will be smarting and
are expected to strike at Kenyan targets at every opportunity.

They have established a pattern of striking churches, police stations and social
places. Now they are bound to change tact and go for harder targets unless their
nefarious designs are forestalled.

As we commiserate with the family of the young Ian Maina, who lost his life
during the attack, and others whose children were injured, we must never
contemplate giving in to such crude tactics and deadly mayhem.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 2 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

LOCKED IN ARSON PUB YARD & LEFT TO BURN;
Staff in terror after masked thugs attack

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 371 words


POLICE are hunting a gang who hooded two terrified bar workers before setting
their pub on fire.

The staff were attacked by four masked men when they burst into McCoy's in
Newry, Co Down, shortly before midnight yesterday.

Twelve fire engines, including specialist units, and 60 Fire Service personnel
were called to the blaze which totally gutted the two-storey building on the
city's Kilmorey Street.

Police commander for the area Davy Beck said they are investigating a possible
link to a fight in the bar shortly before the arson attack.

It is understood there was a scrap between four men which ended when they were
asked to leave after a pool cue was put through a TV screen.

A fire extinguisher was later thrown through the window.

The chief inspector added: "We are treating a fire at McCoy's Bar on Kilmorey
Street as arson with intent to endanger life.

"Two men were left in a rear yard while the bar was set on fire.

"Our thoughts are with those men as they come to terms with their ordeal.

"Our focus is now on catching those responsible.

"Around 11pm last night a fight broke out in McCoys Bar between four males.

"The males were asked to leave after causing damage to the property.

They spoke with Southern accents.

"Two staff members began to clean up the bar when the side door was banged
around 11.30pm.

"Four hooded males covered the heads of the two staff and put them under stairs
in the rear yard. The bar was then set alight.

"These males also spoke with Southern accents and we are looking at a link
between the two incidents."

Mr Beck said the Fire Service was alerted to the blaze by a passerby.

He added that the two barmen suffered smoke inhalation. He said his officers are
"working to piece together every available piece of information and would ask
for the support and help of the public".

Sinn Fein MP Conor Murphy condemned the "disgusting attack on a well-known
family business which has been at the heart of the local community for many
years".

SDLP Assembly Member for Newry and Armagh Dominic Bradley labelled the attack
"barbaric" and an "appalling act" Anyone with details is asked to call the
police at Ardmore Station on 0845 600 8000.

"This is a disgusting attack on a well-known family business CONOR MURPHY

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROBE 3Aftermath of blaze
CARNAGE JFire crews in Newry yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 3, 2012 Wednesday

Russian spy chief warns of terrorist arson attacks on forests

LENGTH: 172 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 3 October: The international terrorist organization Al-Qa'idah is
implementing the strategy of a "thousand injections" and is involved in setting
fire to forest areas in EU countries, Russian FSB Federal Security Service
director Aleksandr Bortnikov has said.

"This method allows inflicting significant economic and moral damages without
serious preliminary preparation and technical equipment as well as significant
financial expenses," Bortnikov said, addressing a meeting of the heads of secret
services as well as security and law enforcement bodies of the Russian FSB's
foreign partner countries on Wednesday [3 October].

"The secret services' chances to detect arsonists are minimal," Bortnikov added.

He said that instructions posted on extremist websites and forums on organizing
"forest jihad", including recommendations on where to start fires, attest to the
focused nature of this activity.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0732 gmt 3 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                                October 3, 2012
                                 First Edition

US considers drone attacks in Africa;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: Greg Miller and Craig Whitlock

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 190 words


The White House has held a series of secret meetings in recent months to examine
the threat posed by al-Qa'ida's franchise in North Africa and consider whether
to prepare for unilateral strikes. The deliberations reflect concern al-Qa'ida's
African affiliate has become more dangerous since gaining control of pockets of
territory in Mali and acquiring weapons from post-revolution Libya. The
discussions pre-date the 11 September attacks on US compounds in Libya but
gained urgency after the assaults were linked to al-Qa'ida in the Islamic
Maghreb (AQIM).

US officials said the discussions focused on ways to help regional militaries
confront al-Qa'ida but had also explored the possibility of direct intervention.
"Right now, we're not in position to do much about it," said a senior
counterterrorism of-ficial involved in the talks. As a result, he said,
officials had begun to consider contingencies, including the question of whether
to deploy drones.

The effort has been led by White House counterterrorism adviser John Brennan and
involves the CIA, State Department and Pentagon. White House officials declined
to comment. WASHINGTON POST

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2012 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 3, 2012 Wednesday 12:11 AM GMT

Obama orders CIA and Navy SEALS to hunt down terrorists who attacked US
consulate in Libya

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1211 words



     ·    Letter from lawmakers to Hillary Clinton indicates that consulate was
          bombed twice months before the September 11 attack
     ·    White House pulls all U.S. personnel out of Benghazi
     ·    Libyan president Mohamed Magarief said that attacks were 'pre-planned'
     ·    U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens was killed along with fellow Americans
          Sean Smith, Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty


President Barack Obama has ordered the CIA and the Pentagon to hunt down the
terrorists who attacked the US consulate in Libya.

It's unclear what the president plans to do once the perpetrators of the
September 11 assault in Benghazi are found, but he has mobilized the military's
Joint Special Operations Command to help carry out the mission.

JSOC and the CIA teamed up to send Navy SEAL commandos into Pakistan in 2011 for
a raid that killed Osama bin Laden.

The White House plans for retaliation come after it was revealed that security
officials missed key signs that the consulate and US Ambassador Chris Stevens
were in danger.

Scroll down for video

Stevens, a member of the foreign service and two former Navy SEAL bodyguards
were killed after terrorists overran the consulate and set fire to it. Stevens
was the first US ambassador to die in the line of duty since 1979.

The terrorist plot stunned America on the anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on New
York and Washington.

The New York Times reports that Obama has now ordered intelligence operatives to
gather 'target packages' on the perpetrators and track them down in Benghazi or
wherever they might have fled.

'They are putting together information on where these individuals live, who
their family members and their associates are, and their entire pattern of
life,' one US official said.

Once the targets and their locations are confirmed, Obama could order any number
of actions -- from drone strikes to commando raids to joint operations with the
Libyans.

The Times reports that the operations is focusing on at least a dozen targets,
though the exact number is not known.

As with the bin Laden raid, Obama would likely make the final call on an raids
or strikes to kill or capture the perpetrators.

The consulate, located in the city of Benghazi, was reportedly bombed twice in
the months leading up to the attack, which occurred on the 11th anniversary of
the September 11 terror attacks.

The Daily Beast reported that various whistleblowers have come forward since the
attack to testify about prior attacks and a series of threats, which are
described in a letter from Rep Darrel Issa and Rep Jason Chaffetz to Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton.

The letter, obtained by the site, says that both the consulate and Stevens were
prime terror targets because threats had been made against both on Facebook.

One such post mentioned the route that Stevens took on his morning jog,
prompting the diplomat to briefly stop running for his own safety.

Destruction: A man walks in the rubble of the consulate after the attack that
claimed four Americans

The letter also mentions two separate bombings on the consulate - one on April 6
(when two former security guards hurled improvised explosives at the building)
and another on June 6.

Neither attack resulted in deaths or injuries.

The revelations came as the White House announced it was pulling all U.S.
personnel out of Benghazi, Libya's second-largest city.

WHAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT MISSED BEFORE BENGHAZI ATTACK


     ·    Bomb attacks on the facility on April 6 and June 6
     ·    Specific threats on Facebook threatening Ambassador Chris Stevens
     ·    Officials initially claimed that attack was a protest gone wrong,
          despite clues that it was a planned terrorist act
     ·    White House admitted last week that it knew the attack was terrorism,
          despite first statements on Benghazi assault


State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told The Washington Post:
'Everybody who was in Benghazi and posted there has been withdrawn.'

Yesterday, new evidence suggested that there were obvious clues that terrorism
was involved in the attack, despite initial claims by officials that it was a
protest gone wrong.

Stevens and three other Americans - Sean Smith, Tyron Woods and Glen Doherty -
perished in the assault.

Confusion over what sparked the Benghazi violence may have stemmed from the CIA,
which distributed 'talking points' to top officials on September 14.

The unclassified documents,  obtained by The Daily Beast , said in part: 'The
currently available information suggests that the demonstrations in Benghazi
were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo and
evolved into a direct assault against the U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi and
subsequently its annex.'

'There are indications that extremists participated in the violent
demonstrations.'

Likely working off the CIA document, government officials like UN Ambassador
Susan Rice and White House Press Secretary Jay Carney, said there was little
evidence the violence was planned.

However, the document went on to say that the 'assessment may change as
additional information is collected' and that the investigation is 'on-going.'

Additionally, The Daily Beast reported that an intercepted phone call between a
local militia group called Ansar al-Shariah and al-Qaeda's north Africa arm,
al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), indicated that the two factions worked
and planned the attack together.

On Saturday, the Obama administration admitted that it knew within 24 hours that
the strike was a pre-planned terrorist attack and not by crazed protestors
enraged by an anti-Islam film.

Senior U.S. officials have now confessed the government privately labelled the
attack a terrorist act almost immediately after it happened, and even knew that
the perpetrators had links to al-Qaeda.

Shawn Turner, a spokesman for Director of National Intelligence James Clapper,
said that as U.S. intelligence subsequently learned more about the attack, 'we
revised our initial assessment to reflect new information indicating that it was
a deliberate and organized terrorist attack carried out by extremists.'

Turner said it remained 'unclear' if any individual or specific group commanded
the attack. U.S. agencies nonetheless believe that some of the militants
involved in the attack were 'linked to groups affiliated with, or sympathetic to
al-Qaeda.'

Rep Peter King, a senior Republican from New York, demanded last week that Rice
resign over her statement that the Benghazi attack was not premeditated.

The State Department rejected King's call this afternoon, defending Rice and
saying she has done 'a superb job.'

Last week, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton admitted there was an explicit
link between the al-Qaeda network in North Africa and the deadly attacks that
killed Ambassador Stevens as well as information management officer Sean Smith
and security personnel Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty..

Speaking at a Security Council meeting at the United Nations, Mrs Clinton said
an Algerian-founded branch of the al-Qaeda network was situated in the area,
using their location to plan and execute attacks, like the one in Benghazi on
September 11.

VIDEO: U.S. Defense Secretary says the attacks was terrorism...

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday

More than half of Russians fear new terrorist attacks - poll

LENGTH: 266 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 4 October: More than half of Russian citizens do not rule out the
possibility of new terrorist attacks in the country's big cities (53 per cent)
and fear that they or their relatives may be among the victims (67 per cent),
Levada Centre sociologists have told Interfax.

Twenty-four per cent of those polled answered the question "Do you think there
will be new acts of terrorism and hostage-takings in big Russian cities" in the
negative. Twenty-three per cent were unable to state their views on this matter
in the course of the poll, which Levada Centre experts carried out on 21-24
September among 1,600 people in 45 Russian regions.

At the same time, 14 per cent of respondents are sure neither they nor their
relatives will ever become victims of a terrorist attack. In the last year the
number of Russians with similar views has grown, in August 2011 there were 9 per
cent. Seventeen per cent of those polled never thought about the matter.

According to half of the respondents (50 per cent), Russian intelligence
services are fighting terrorism not successfully enough. Thirty-nine per cent
have the opposite point of view, whereas 11 per cent remain undecided.

However, confidence that the law-enforcement agencies will be able to protect
Russians from the terrorist threat has grown: 42 per cent against 38 per cent in
August 2011. For their part, 44 per cent think that the state cannot be trusted
in this matter (52 per cent a year ago), the poll showed.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0624 gmt 4 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 4, 2012 Thursday

Over 40 per cent of Kazakhs fear repetition of terror attacks in future - survey

LENGTH: 640 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Almaty, 4 October: According to a survey of the Kazakhstan Institute of
Political Solutions (IPS), 41.9 per cent of the republic's citizens fear that
terrorist attacks may soon be repeated in the country.

Thus, according to sociological research, which was sent to the
Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, this issue mostly worries people in Aktobe
(administrative centre of Aktobe Region, in the west) - 93.6 per cent of
respondents; followed by Kyzylorda (administrative centre of Kyzylorda Region,
in the south) - 58.8 per cent and Uralsk (administrative centre of West
Kazakhstan Region) - 56.7 per cent.

The worry of Aktobe residents can be explained by the fact that in mid-May 2011
a local resident committed an act of suicide-bombing in the building of the
regional department of the National Security Committee, as a result he was
killed and two people were injured.

Meanwhile, residents of Atyrau, where anti-terrorism operations were recently
been conducted, as well as where an explosion of home-made devices and attacks
on police officers recently took place, were the most calm people in the country
and ranked 13th out of 16 places in the list with 33.9 per cent.

According to the survey, the residents of Almaty are on the fifth place (49 per
cent), Astana - on the 10th (39 per cent).

The least fear of terrorist attacks is in Taraz (administrative centre of
Zhambyl Region, in the south) - 6.8 per cent, in spite of the fact that in
mid-November 2011 a supporter of jihad committed a terror attack, which killed
five law-enforcement officers and two local residents.

At the same time, 32.1 per cent of respondents do not fear a repetition of
terrorist attacks in the country, and 26 per cent found it difficult to answer
the question.

Meanwhile, 43.2 per cent of respondents are "partly sure" that the state is able
to protect them in case of need, 15.7 per cent "fully confident", 26.5 per cent
"absolutely  sceptical", and 14.6 per cent were undecided.

Aktobe residents again were the most concerned about it - 86.4 per cent of
respondents are "totally unsure" that the state can protect them in the event of
acts of terrorism, ethnic and religious conflicts.

Next in this indicator is Karaganda (administrative centre of Karaganda Region,
in the central part of the country with 36 per cent), Kokshetau (administrative
centre of Akmola Region, in the centre, with 35 per cent) and Kyzylorda (31 per
cent).

At the same time, according to the survey, 47.2 per cent of Kazakhstan citizens
believe that the performance of law-enforcement agencies in combating terrorism
and extremism are "partly informed (some events are deliberately not reported)";
16.7 per cent are "absolutely not aware of it"; and 9.4 per cent are "fully
informed". Other 16.3 per cent of the republic's citizens do not track
information about the actions of law-enforcement agencies; and 10.4 per cent
found it difficult to answer.

Meanwhile, according to the survey, most Kazakhstan citizens get information
about emergencies and terrorist attacks from the media (52.3 per cent), social
networks (27.5 per cent) and rumours (13.1 per cent).

Only 6.3 per cent of respondents said they get information from official reports
of security forces.

While 48.8 per cent of respondents "probably" trust official press services of
the law-enforcement agencies, and 13 per cent - "fully" trust.

However, 19.8 per cent of Kazakhstan citizens "probably" do not trust press
releases of the security forces; 7.1 per cent of respondents said they had "no"
trust.

The survey was conducted from 10 to 15 August in 14 regional centres, as well as
in Almaty and Astana. The study involved 2,304 people.

Kazakhstan's population is 16.8 million people.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 1115 gmt 4 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 4, 2012 Thursday 6:58 PM GMT

U.S. investigators FINALLY arrive at at site of Benghazi consulate attack - more
than three weeks after terror massacre

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1358 words



     ·    Team that includes FBI agents shows up at burned out U.S. consulate
          building on Thursday morning
     ·    Secretary of State Hillary Clinton vows full probe into what happened
          at the facility on the 11th anniversary of September 11 attacks
     ·    U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens was killed along with fellow Americans
          Sean Smith, Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty


Federal investigators have arrived at the burned out U.S. consulate in Libya -
three weeks after the terror strike that led to the deaths of four Americans.

Libyan officials said the team, which included several FBI agents, arrived at
the compound early this morning.

A Libyan defense ministry official told AFP: 'An American investigative
committee visited the site where the U.S. ambassador was killed.'

U.S. Ambassador to Libya Christopher Stevens, as well as fellow Americans Sean
Smith, Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty perished in the attack, which occurred on
the 11th anniversary of 9/11.

On Saturday, the Obama administration admitted that it knew within 24 hours that
the strike was a pre-planned terrorist attack and not by crazed protestors
enraged by an anti-Islam film.

A commander in the rebel Libyan Shield brigade, who did not want to be
identified, added: 'About 20 Americans dressed in civilian clothing came and we
were asked to protect them until they leave Benghazi.'

The investigative crew arrived as Secretary of State Hillary Clinton pledged a
full and open inquiry into the attack, amid demands from Congress for speedy
answers to questions about the security of the mission and concerns that the FBI
probe into the incident has been delayed.

An independent five-member board appointed by Clinton will begin this week
looking at whether security at the consulate was adequate and whether proper
procedures were followed before, during and immediately after the assault.

'The men and women who serve this country as diplomats deserve no less than a
full and accurate accounting wherever that leads and I am committed to seeking
that for them,' Clinton told reporters at the State Department on Wednesday.

Republican lawmakers claim security at the consulate was inadequate. Two House
leaders have asserted that the Obama administration denied repeated requests
from U.S. diplomats in Libya to enhance security at the mission.

Clinton promised 'a process that is as transparent as possible' although she
stressed that 'it will take time.'

Previous inquiries into attacks on diplomatic missions have taken months to
complete.

But faced with Republicans in Congress impatient for full details of any
possible negligence before November's presidential election, Clinton pledged
that the State Department would share information as appropriate with lawmakers
as soon as possible.

Meanwhile, Sensitive documents detailing U.S. operations in Libya remain left
behind at the U.S. consulate more than three weeks after the attack which killed
ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other Americans.

The documents - some still scattered across the floors of the looted compound -
include information about weapons collection efforts, emergency evacuation
protocols, the complete itinerary of Ambassador Stevens' trip, and the names,
photographs, phone numbers and other personal information of Libyans who were
contracted to secure the U.S. mission.

In the days following the attack on September 11, looters were free to roam the
remains of the embassy and other highly sensitive documents are expected to have
been taken.

The compound in Benghazi is now locked, but only two private security guards -
paid for by the Libyan owner of the complex - watch over the site, the
Washington Post reported.

The compound consists of two adjoining villa complexes and in some parts is only
protected by an eight foot high wall.

President Obama has ordered both the CIA and the Pentagon to hunt down the
terrorists who attacked the consulate.

It's unclear what the president plans to do once the perpetrators of the assault
in Benghazi are found, but he has mobilized the military's Joint Special
Operations Command to help carry out the mission.

JSOC and the CIA teamed up to send Navy SEAL commandos into Pakistan in 2011 for
a raid that killed Osama bin Laden.

The White House plans for retaliation come after it was revealed that security
officials missed key signs that the consulate and Stevens were in danger.

The New York Times reported that Obama has now ordered intelligence operatives
to gather 'target packages' on the perpetrators and track them down in Benghazi
or wherever they might have fled.

'They are putting together information on where these individuals live, who
their family members and their associates are, and their entire pattern of
life,' one US official said.

Once the targets and their locations are confirmed, Obama could order any number
of actions - from drone strikes to commando raids to joint operations with the
Libyans.

The Times reported that the operations is focusing on at least a dozen targets,
though the exact number is not known.

As with the raid that took out Osama bin Laden, Obama would likely make the
final call on an raids or strikes to kill or capture the perpetrators.

The consulate, located in the city of Benghazi, was reportedly bombed twice in
the months leading up to the attack, which occurred on the 11th anniversary of
the September 11 terror attacks.

The Daily Beast reported that various whistleblowers have come forward since the
attack to testify about prior attacks and a series of threats, which are
described in a letter from Rep Darrel Issa and Rep Jason Chaffetz to Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton.

The letter, obtained by the site, says that both the consulate and Stevens were
prime terror targets because threats had been made against both on Facebook.

One such post mentioned the route that Stevens took on his morning jog,
prompting the diplomat to briefly stop running for his own safety.

Destruction: A man walks in the rubble of the consulate after the attack that
claimed four Americans

The letter also mentions two separate bombings on the consulate - one on April 6
(when two former security guards hurled improvised explosives at the building)
and another on June 6.

Neither attack resulted in deaths or injuries.

The revelations came as the White House announced it was pulling all U.S.
personnel out of Benghazi, Libya's second-largest city.

WHAT THE U.S. GOVERNMENT MISSED BEFORE BENGHAZI ATTACK


     ·    Bomb attacks on the facility on April 6 and June 6
     ·    Specific threats on Facebook threatening Ambassador Chris Stevens
     ·    Officials initially claimed that attack was a protest gone wrong,
          despite clues that it was a planned terrorist act
     ·    White House admitted last week that it knew the attack was terrorism,
          despite first statements on Benghazi assault


State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told The Washington Post:
'Everybody who was in Benghazi and posted there has been withdrawn.'

Yesterday, new evidence suggested that there were obvious clues that terrorism
was involved in the attack, despite initial claims by officials that it was a
protest gone wrong.

Stevens and three other Americans - Sean Smith, Tyron Woods and Glen Doherty -
perished in the assault.

Confusion over what sparked the Benghazi violence may have stemmed from the CIA,
which distributed 'talking points' to top officials on September 14.

The unclassified documents,  obtained by The Daily Beast , said in part: 'The
currently available information suggests that the demonstrations in Benghazi
were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo and
evolved into a direct assault against the U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi and
subsequently its annex.'

'There are indications that extremists participated in the violent
demonstrations.'

Likely working off the CIA document, government officials like UN Ambassador
Susan Rice and White House Press Secretary Jay Carney, said there was little
evidence the violence was planned.

However, the document went on to say that the 'assessment may change as
additional information is collected' and that the investigation is 'on-going.'

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 6, 2012 Saturday

Nigerian paper urges security agencies to act over terror attacks

LENGTH: 473 words


Text of report by Nigerian newspaper Vanguard website on 4 October

[Editorial: "Another Mubi Massacre"]

Neither the official reaction, nor the reasons adduced for the killing of more
than 40 students of tertiary institutions in Mubi, Adamawa State, can excuse
another round in the loss of lives.

It is becoming normal for Nigerians to be killed in this manner and typical for
governments to blame one sect or the other for it.

The fact remains that hundreds of Nigerians are dying in a way that should
provoke tougher measures from government. A new dimension to the massacre in
Mubi should necessitate this.

Police confirmed that the attackers had a list of their victims. They had the
luxury of calling out their victims before killing them. How did they compile
the list? Who were their targets? What was the motive?

The attackers obviously had enough intelligence on their victims. It takes some
work to know where targets would be in a hostel complex that harboured students
from three institutions. More information would be required for the attackers to
know they could execute their task without any interference from the security
agencies who again have been outwitted.

Soldiers in house to house searches on Wednesday should not expect that the
attackers would have waited after the Monday attack.

Slow pace of responses in assisting those attacked or repelling attacks have
placed attackers at advantage in these encounters.

The motive for the gruesome attack is important in resolving this matter. Was it
a reprisal attack for the military's recent arrest of some alleged members of an
extremist sect?

Or could it be linked to the students' elections that were held a day earlier?
Whatever it is, the attack was planned and executed to the letter.

Calling out of the students, shooting or slitting their throats were deliberate
actions and the attackers had time to please themselves.

Curfew, imposed in Mubi following other killings including 13 indigenes of
Adazi-Nnukwu, Anambra State, last year, has not had the expected impact.

Where were the security agencies when the killers executed their plan? How did
they evade security? How effective is the curfew?

More questions would be asked as the new dimensions of the latest attack
unfolds. It is not enough to suggest the attacks were related to the students'
elections or the arrests of extremists.

The security agencies should work more on stopping these attacks rather than
explaining them.

The heightened security activity around Mubi is not the answer as it is not a
guarantee to stop attacks on Mubi or other locations.

Emphases should be more on measures that would stop the attacks, not futile
chasing the attackers long after they have gone. Nigerians deserve protection
from these attacks, government owes them that protection.

Source: Vanguard website, Lagos, in English 4 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Journal

                            October 6, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Probe into London attack moves North;
Anti-terrorism police's raid on Tyneside home

BYLINE: Sophie Doughty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 365 words


ANORTH East seaside town is at the centre of a counter-terrorism probe into the
attempted murder of an Indian general in London.

1

Officers from the Metropolitan Police's anti-terrorist unit have been searching
homes in South Shields as part of their investigation into the attack on
Lieutenant General Kuldeep Singh Brar, on Sunday. The 78-year-old was set upon
as he walked with his wife on Old Quebec Street, near Marble Arch, and his neck
was slashed.

Detectives say they are keeping an open mind about the motives behind the
attack.

But in 1984, Mr Brar was involved in a military operation against Sikh militants
in the Indian city of Armritsar, which left around 1,000 people dead. Links
between this and the attempt on his life are now being probed.

Yesterday the Met Police confirmed its probe had moved from the capital.

And in a dramatic twist, it was confirmed that a home in South Shields was among
those being searched.

A spokesman said: "A number of search warrants have also been executed in
connection with this investigation. The searches are being carried out at a
residential address in South Shields, a residential address in Birmingham and
two residential addresses in London."

So far 15 people have been arrested, for a range of offences including
conspiracy to murder, by police working on the investigation. They have been
questioned in London.

But the Met would not confirm whether any of the suspects are from the North
East.

At around 10.40pm on Sunday, police received reports that a man had been
assaulted in Old Quebec Street, near the junction with Oxford Street.

The victim, an Indian national who is visiting London, was with his wife when
they were approached by four men.

He was assaulted with what is believed to be a knife or sharp implement and
suffered a wound on his neck. His wife was not injured in the attack.

The four men are described as being of Asian appearance, and were wearing dark
clothing and long black jackets. They all had long beards and fled in the
direction of Oxford Street after the attack.

Mr Brar was taken to hospital by ambulance and later discharged.

A number of search warrants have also been executed in connection with this
investigation

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK Retired Lt Gen Kuldeep Singh Brar, centre, arrives back at
Mumbai International Airport after the attempt on his life in London

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2012 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 7, 2012 Sunday

Israeli army planes attack "terrorist" targets in Gaza Strip, one killed

LENGTH: 68 words


Text of report by Israeli public radio station Voice of Israel Network B on 7
October

The air force attacked terrorist targets in the southern Gaza Strip, our army
affairs correspondent Karmela Menashe reports. Palestinian health sources said
one person was killed and another sustained serious injuries. They said two men
on bicycles were targeted.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1600 gmt 7 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             October 8, 2012 Monday

Iran daily blames US, 'terrorists' for mortar attacks on Turkey

LENGTH: 1928 words


Text of commentary of the day by Sa'dollah Zare'i: "America's failed conspiracy
on the borders of Syria and Turkey" by Iranian newspaper Keyhan on 6 October.

Border clashes between Turkey and Syria took place at a time when, on the one
hand, some units of the Turkish army have been stationed on the border crossings
with Syria in order to indicate an end to the security crisis with their
southern neighbor. On the other hand, the remnants of the terrorist group known
as the "Free [Syrian] Army" have been completely surrounded [by Syrian forces].
Therefore, there is no doubt that the border clashes had been planned and
implemented from outside the geographical boundaries of Syria and Turkey, and
most probably from outside the region. There are a number of important points to
bear in mind in this connection.

1- Starting clashes between Syria and Turkey under the circumstances when the
government and the armed forces in Damascus have been able to overcome the
crisis of terrorism to a large extent is in no way in the interest of Syria.
This is a very simple issue and no one in Syria has the slightest doubt about
it. On that basis, one can decisively discount the involvement of the Syrian
armed forces in the incident that took place last Wednesday [ 3 October 2012]
and resulted in the death of five Turkish citizens.

On the other hand, it is also not in Turkey's interest to get involved in
clashes, because getting involved in a war with Syria would be the start of a
regional war, and nobody in Turkey doubts that point either. The behavior of the
Turkish government and armed forces over the past few weeks has been to announce
semi-officially the almost total closure of the border crossings between Turkey
and Syria, and [the Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip] Erdogan blunt statement
that the resolution passed by the Turkish parliament was only a deterrent
measure, and that Turkey did not intend to declare war against Syria also
confirms that point [reluctance of Turkey to be drawn to a war].

However, by reviewing the policies that are linked to the capitals of [Saudi]
Arabia, Qatar, the Zionist regime, France, England, and America, one can find
the footprints of an interest in the realization of a military clash between
Turkey and Syria. One of the indications of this interest could be seen in the
blunt statements of the American minister of foreign affairs [secretary of
state] regarding the border incidents between Syria and Turkey, and her demand
that NATO should intervene and should "investigate those very dangerous
circumstances". At the same time, without investigating the above-mentioned
security incident, NATO also described Syria's action as a clear violation of
international law and a threat to the security of one of its members.

2- Everybody knows that Al-Qa'ida is at the main focus of terrorism in Syria,
and the so-called "Free Army", which is apparently under the command of Riad
Al-As'ad and the nationalist movement, plays no prominent role in domestic
security developments in Syria. On the other hand, a large number of documents
that have been published prove the complete dominance of French, English, and
American intelligence services over the planning, intelligence and operational
activities of Al-Qa'ida. Some of those documents and admissions even speak of
the above-mentioned intelligence services providing security cover for the
terrorist groups.

Nevertheless, in view of the West's desire for the outbreak of clashes between
the two Muslim countries of Syria and Turkey, in the clashes of two days ago the
finger of accusation should be pointed towards Paris, London and Washington more
than anyone else. Yesterday, quoting a source in the American intelligence
service, the CIA, Los Angeles Times reported: "The Turkish government has given
in to Iranian and Russian pressures to prevent the arrival of anti-Asad
paramilitaries to Syria, and it has issued some warnings to Syrian opposition
forces to leave the Turkish soil." It is interesting to note that the shootings
from northern areas of Aleppo towards the Turkish villages close to the Syrian
border occurred with weapons like the weapons that have been used against the
Syrian military during recent weeks.

3- During the past few weeks, the Syrian army had achieved a great deal of
success in cleansing the polluted areas, and all reports indicate the
approaching end of the security crisis in Syria. Two days ago, quoting some
officials in the American Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Los Angeles Times had
written: "The Syrian forces opposed to Bashar Asad have lost 70 per cent of
their military capabilities and their strength, and the Syrian forces are
getting ready to overcome the biggest center of the opposition forces in
Aleppo." That newspaper continued: "The situation in Aleppo will soon be settled
in favor of the Syrian forces."

Referring to Turkey's new stances - prior to the border clashes - about the need
to end security [military] intervention inside Syria, the above-mentioned
newspaper wrote: "Everybody knows what would happen if the leaders of the groups
opposed to the government lose their contacts with the fighting forces on the
ground." In fact, it can be said that one of the main aims of firing shells
towards the Turkish soil was to force Turkey back to the time when she had
accepted the presence of the commanders of the opposition forces on its soil and
when she had turned her northern borders into the most important centers for
arming and equipping the Syrian opposition forces.

The main point is that in the project of toppling the government in Damascus no
other country is either as willing or as capable of playing the role that Turkey
had been playing during the period between Mehr 90 and Shahrivar 91 [October
2011 to September 2012]. Arabia and Qatar do not have common borders with Syria.
Although Jordan and the Zionist regime are in favor of Asad's downfall, they are
not able to provide any territory for helping the insurgents. Iraqi and Lebanese
governments too are opposed to security [military] operations against the Syrian
people and government. In view of all this, it would be clear what would happen
if Turkey withdraws her assistance.

4- With the passage of time, it has become clear to Turkey that the political
resolution of the developments in Syria would also have some constructive
results for Turkey and that it is preferable to a military solution, because if
an Arab government is toppled as the result of military and security
intervention and if Turkey is one of the sides responsible for the downfall of
that government, the Turkish government would gain a military-security
reputation and it would lose its influence regarding the use of soft
[non-military] measures. At the same time, if Turkey is regarded as a center of
military-security operations, it will revive the memories of a time when the
Turks who were in a minority [in the Middle East], by making use of military
force had ruled over the majority Arab populations. The Arabs have such bitter
memories about the period of the Ottoman rule that the revival of a
military-security image for Turkey would prevent the restructuring of Turkey's
power in the Arab region.

At the same time, it should also be added that despite all the heavy cost that
Turkey has paid, she has not achieved any military and security gains in Syria,
and all its hardware [military] initiatives have completely failed. It also
should be added that Al-Qa'ida's war against Syria is not on Ankara's agenda.
The fact that the Turks immediately responded positively to the Russian and
Iranian demands to distance themselves from military options and the fact that
Erdogan has officially rejected the possibility of a war between Turkey and
Syria confirm Ankara's rejection of military involvement. At the same time,
there are many indications that prove that the possibility of the repetition of
some incidents like those that happened last Wednesday from some areas in the
north of Aleppo province where the terrorists are still stationed in a scattered
manner still exists. This is why it is probable that security and media tension
between Turkey and Syria would continue and even be intensified for a while .
Nevertheless, one cannot regard it as the sign of a serious military
confrontation between them.

5- During the past two days, there has been a great deal of effort to persuade
Syria to apologize to Turkey, and even the Turkish government announced that
Syria had apologized. However, while expressing its readiness to investigate the
incident of last Wednesday, the Syrian government has denied that it had
apologized. The main goal of those activities was to ensure that the border
crisis between Syria and Turkey would end with a simple apology by Damascus, but
the fact is that the Syrian apology would have been tantamount to Syria's
admission of involvement in firing the shells at the areas inside Turkey. If
this had taken place, it would have confirmed many accusations that are made
regarding Damascus's efforts to endanger peace and security in the region, and
it would have paved the way for imposing punishments that normally go with such
accusations, which could have included the loss of legal and sovereignty rights
in the form of declaring a no-fly zone and... [All ellipses as published].
Therefore, Syria wisely stood up against that conspiracy, and the specter of war
that had threatened the region, as the result of the resolution of the Turkish
parliament on Thursday, did not force Asad to panic. Meanwhile, the Syrian
government authorized its envoy at the United Nations to deny accepting
responsibility for the incident and a Syrian apology, while "expressing deep
sympathy to the families of the victims"

6- Another important point was that throughout that incident Syria completely in
control of its nerves, in the same way that during the past two years Syria has
shown its wise management in the course of that complex security crisis or,
according to Bashar Asad, a world war against Syria. Without doubt, a crisis
even half as serious as the Syrian crisis would have resulted in the downfall of
the governments in Ankara, Riyadh, and... However, the Syrian system has managed
that crisis with strength and at the same time with a great deal of dignity, and
without making any concessions it has pushed its opponents and the opposition
front to the edge of complete failure.

Meanwhile, in the course of the Syrian crisis, Syria's allies, including Iran,
Russia, Lebanon, Iraq, China and ... have also acted wisely. During those
developments Iran managed to maintain her balanced relations with Syria and
Turkey and to refrain from extremism. The presence of a high-ranking Iranian
delegation in Ankara only one day after the border crisis between Turkey and
Syria, and the welcome that the members of the delegation received from the
Turkish side, as well as the official remarks of Erdogan in the presence of
Iran's first vice-president were the best indications of Iran's capabilities and
wisdom. It proved the point that while being the center of revolution and
uprising, when it is necessary, the Islamic Republic of Iran will also act as
the most important factor for peace and security in the region. Most certainly,
Iran's active involvement in the critical climate of relation between Ankara and
Damascus will be very unwelcome for the countries that have made their plans on
the basis of the expansion of tension in the Islamic world.

Source: Keyhan website, Tehran, in Persian 06 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             October 8, 2012 Monday

Syria: UN Security Council condemns terrorist attacks in Aleppo

LENGTH: 294 words


October 5, 2012

The members of the United Nations Security Council today condemned "in the
strongest terms" the terrorist attacks which took place on Wednesday in the
Syrian city of Aleppo, causing dozens of deaths and leaving more than a hundred
civilians injured.



"They [Council members] expressed their deep sympathy and sincere condolences to
the families of the victims of these heinous acts and to the people of Syria,"
added Ambassador Gert Rosenthal of Guatemala, which holds the Presidency of the
Security Council for the month of October, in a statement he read out to the
media at UN Headquarters in New York.

In the press statement, the Council noted that Jebhat al-Nusra -- an Islamist
militant group affiliated with the Al-Qaida terrorist group -- had claimed
responsibility for the attack.

According to media reports, at least two car bombs reportedly exploded on
Wednesday in Aleppo's main Saadallah al-Jabiri Square and another bomb exploded
a few hundred metres away, killing at least 48 people.

"The members of the Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism in all its forms
and manifestations constitutes one of the most serious threats to international
peace and security, and that any acts of terrorism are criminal and
unjustifiable, regardless of their motivation, wherever, whenever and by
whomsoever committed," Ambassador Rosenthal said in the press statement.

In addition, the Council members reiterated their determination to combat all
forms of terrorism, in accordance with its responsibilities under the UN
Charter.

They also reminded States that they must ensure that measures taken to combat
terrorism comply with all their obligations under international law, in
particular international human rights, refugee and humanitarian law.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2PW


                      Copyright 2012 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       October 8, 2012 Monday 6:09 PM GMT

US Ambassador Chris Stevens 'wanted military security team to stay in Libya';
The US ambassador killed in last month's terrorist attack in Libya wanted a
military security team to continue protecting his embassy when it was withdrawn
in August, the team's commander has said.

BYLINE: By Jon Swaine Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 304 words


Chris Stevens, who died in the Sept 11 strike on the US consulate in Benghazi,
is said to have disagreed with a State Department decision to pull out the
16-man team of special operations soldiers.

Lt. Col. Andrew Wood, their commander, told ABC that for Mr Stevens and his
team, the "first choice was for us to stay," adding: "That would have been the
choice of the embassy people in Tripoli."

He told CBS that security officials felt like they were being "asked to play the
piano with two fingers" when the Obama administration withdrew both his team and
a six-man State Department "elite force".

"We tried to illustrate ... to show them how dangerous and how volatile and just
unpredictable that whole environment was over there," Lt. Col. Wood told CBS.

"So to decrease security in the face of that really is ... it's just
unbelievable. We felt we needed more, not less."

The "site security team" (SST) had already extended its stay after a request to
Washington from embassy officials in February stating the soldiers' work was
"critical to [the] post's security effort".

"Quite simply, we cannot maintain our existing levels of embassy operations,
much less implement necessary staffing increases, without a continued SST
presence," the memo said.

A State Department spokesman said that after the team's mission ended, special
security agents were deployed in their place and "maintained a constant level of
security capability".

The departure of Lt. Col. Wood's team "had no impact whatsoever on the total
number of fully trained American security personnel in Libya generally, or in
Benghazi specifically," the spokesman said.

Lt. Col. Wood, who is due to testify to a Congressional inquiry on the attack on
Wednesday, said he did not know if his team could have prevented the deadly Sept
11 attack if it had remained in place.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 9, 2012 Tuesday

Iraqi authorities arrest "terrorist cell" behind attacks, killings - roundup

LENGTH: 761 words


Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah Satellite Television in Arabic, in its evening newscasts on
8 October, reports on Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki reiterating from Moscow
Iraq's neutral position on the Syrian crisis; President Jalal Talabani's
meetings with the Al-Fadilah Party delegation and the Sabean Mandaean
delegation; the Babil Governorate proposing on the security authorities to drain
the lake areas in northern Babil to eradicate terrorist strongholds; Rozh Nuri
Shaways, deputy prime minister for economic affairs, discussing with Swedish
officials in Stockholm means to boost bilateral economic and commercial
relations; and security services in Kirkuk arresting a terrorist cell belonging
to the so-called Islamic State of Iraq.

Political developments

Within its 1300 gmt newscast, the channel reports the following:

- "Iraqi President Jalal Talabani has asserted the importance of joining efforts
towards finding solutions that help strengthen the unity of ranks within the
political process and ensure the participation of all forces across various
aspects in the establishment of the state. Talabani gave this statement during
his meeting with the Al-Fadilah Party delegation headed by the party's leader,
Hashim al-Hashimi. According to a presidential statement, the meeting also
underlined the need for all parties to resort to a productive and practical
dialogue, which puts the interests of the country and people above all other
considerations. The meeting also addressed the need to abide by the
constitutional principles, respect the signed agreements, and work in a
brotherly spirit towards establishing a common ground for joint efforts and
dialogue."

- "The Babil Governorate has proposed to the higher security authorities in
Baghdad to drain the lakes in northern Babil so as to eradicate the area's
terrorist strongholds. Deputy Governor Sadiq al-Muhanna told the news centre of
the Iraqi Media Network that the security stability in northern Babil depends on
draining the area's lakes, noting that the Governorate of Babil cannot drain and
cover up the lake on its own, as the task requires an extra military and
technical expertise."

Within its 1700 gmt newscast, the channel reports the following:

- "Upon his arrival in Moscow, PM Nuri al-Maliki reiterated Iraq's neutral
position on the Syrian crisis, asserting that the Iraqi Government supports
neither the opposition nor the ruling regime in Syria's domestic conflict.
Al-Maliki stated to the media that Iraq's position is based on the Geneva and
Arab League's resolutions, underlining the need to find a peaceful solution to
the crisis. Al-Maliki also noted that the ongoing Syrian crisis might affect
other countries in the Middle East."

- "In another topic, Al-Maliki said that Iraq, despite the challenges on its
border areas, is still working on establishing democracy regardless of the
failed terrorist attacks that will be eliminated thanks to the security
services' efforts."

- "President Talabani asserted the importance of respecting the Iraqi components
and groups which constitute an indispensable foundation. During his reception of
a delegation representing the Sabean Mandaean community, Talabani underlined
that the Sabean Mandean component has deep roots in Iraq and enjoys an
undeniable social and cultural heritage."

- "Rozh Nuri Shaways, deputy prime minister for economic affairs, has discussed
with Swedish officials in Stockholm economic and commercial relations, and means
to activate such relations between Iraq and Sweden. Shaways, who is leading the
Iraqi delegation taking part in the [Swedish-Iraqi] Business and Investment
Conference, called on the Swedish companies, businessmen, and investors to
invest in Iraq, given that it is a fertile ground in various aspects."

Security developments

Within its 1700 gmt newscast, the channel reports the following:

- "Security services in the Kirkuk Governorate have arrested a terrorist cell
belonging to the so-called Islamic State of Iraq [ISI]. An official source form
the governorate's intelligence services told the Al-Iraqiyah TV that the cell is
behind the blasts that targeted several mosques and Husayniyahs [congregation
halls for Shi'i commemoration ceremonies] in the governorate. It is also
involved in the assassinations of the endowment director and two mayors, and
responsible for bringing foreign suicide bombers into Iraq; the last suicide
bomber to be brought by the cell was the one who executed the suicide attack on
the police intelligence department."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1300 gmt 8 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 9, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Envoy killed in terrorist attack 'wanted army team to stay'

BYLINE: Jon Swaine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 442 words


THE US ambassador killed in last month's terrorist attack in Libya wanted a
military security team to continue protecting his staff when it was withdrawn in
August, the team's commander has said.

Chris Stevens, who died in the Sept 11 strike on the US consulate in Benghazi,
is said to have disagreed with a State Department decision to pull out the
16-man team of special operations soldiers.

Lt Col Andrew Wood, their commander, told ABC that for Mr Stevens and his team,
the "first choice was for us to stay", adding: "That would have been the choice
of the embassy people in Tripoli."

He told CBS that security officials felt like they were being "asked to play the
piano with two fingers" when the Obama administration withdrew both his team and
a six-man State Department "elite force".

"We tried to illustrate ... to show them how dangerous and how volatile and just
unpredictable that whole environment was over there," Lt Col Wood said.

"So to decrease security in the face of that really is ... it's just
unbelievable. We felt we needed more, not less."

The "site security team" (SST) had already extended its stay after a request to
Washington from embassy officials in February stating the soldiers' work was
"critical to [the] post's security effort".

"Quite simply, we cannot maintain our existing levels of embassy operations,
much less implement necessary staffing increases, without a continued SST
presence," the memo said.

A State Department spokesman said that after the team's mission ended, special
security agents were deployed in their place and "maintained a constant level of
security capability".

The departure of Lt Col Wood's team "had no impact whatsoever on the total
number of fully trained American security personnel in Libya generally, or in
Benghazi specifically," the spokesman said.

Lt Col Wood, who is due to testify to a Congressional inquiry on the attack
tomorrow, said he did not know if his soldiers could have prevented the deadly
Sept 11 attack if they had remained.

He is due to testify before a hearing of the House Oversight Committee, which
will be led by Darrell Issa, a California Republican who is one of the sharpest
critics of President Barack Obama's administration.

Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican member of the committee, visited Benghazi at
the weekend and claims to have returned with documents and interviews with
whistle-blowers that prove requests for heightened security were denied by
Washington.

"Regional security officers were denied requests for more personnel and security
upgrades to the four buildings and the perimeter security of the US mission in
Benghazi," Mr Chaffetz told The Daily Beast.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mitt Romney with his wife, Ann, who has Welsh relatives, at an election
rally
LYNNE SLADKY/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          Milngavie & Bearsden Herald

                            October 9, 2012 Tuesday

Passenger terror as yob attacks bus

LENGTH: 69  words


A STONE throwing thug smashed a bus window - while it was packed with
passengers.

Police are investigating the incident on the First Bus service, which happened
on Craigton Road, Milngavie, at 4pm on Tuesday, October 2.

There were no injuries to passengers - call Crimestoppers 0800 555 111 if you
have information.

Were you a passenger on the bus? If so, call us on 0141 956 3533 or e-mail
mbherald@jnscotland.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SFMB


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 10, 2012 Wednesday 2:41 PM GMT

Hillary Clinton's State Department says it NEVER believed terrorist attack on
U.S. consulate in Benghazi was result of protest over anti-Islam movie

BYLINE: EDDIE WRENN and TOBY HARNDEN IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2134 words



     ·    Announcement of State Department dissent from rest of Obama
          administration could help protect Clinton during 2016 presidential run
     ·    Officials tell how ambassador Chris Stevens was trapped in safe-room
          as assailants burnt the compound down
     ·    AK-47s, grenade attacks, and a smoke-filled safe-room - chilling
          account of the death of U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens revealed
     ·    Obama administration originally said assault stemmed from protests
          against anti-Islam video but then backtracked saying terrorists
          responsible
     ·    Ambassador's whereabouts after attack not known until officials rang
          his cell phone - and found doctors trying unsuccessfully to save his
          life in hospital
     ·    Most serious attack on U.S. diplomatic compound since al-Qaeda bombed
          the embassies in Kenya and Tanzania 14 years ago


The State Department has said that it never believed the September 11th attack
on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was the result of a protest over an anti-Islam
movie - directly contracting the rest of the Obama administration.

By trying to distance her department from the inept and deceptive handling of
the Benghazi attack, which left U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens and three other
American officials dead, Hillary Clinton could help herself politically for a
2016 presidential run.

A new account by the State Department reveals that Stevens was locked inside a
'safe room' choking to death from diesel-heavy smoke as the building around him
burned to the ground.

Alongside him was a security guard, tasked with the impossible choice between
staying in the deadly room - or facing the rocket-propelled grenades and
machine-guns outside.

Eventually the guard slipped through the window - and was cut down by the
grenades.

No-one saw the ambassador alive again - another agent tried desperately to enter
the safe-room, but could not find him anywhere.

The State Department's insistence it never bought the story - expressed by the
White House and Susan Rice, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations - that a crude
anti-Islam film made in California triggered the attack gives ammunition against
Obama both to the Romney campaign and congressional Republicans.

State Department sources have said that Clinton has never forgotten that Rice,
who served in her husband Bill's administration, was an early supporter of
Obama. Rice has ambitions to take over from Clinton if Obama is re-elected but
the Benghazi debacle could scupper her chances.

In a briefing on Tuesday, State Department officials said 'others' in the
executive branch concluded initially that the attack was part of a protest
against the film, which ridiculed the Prophet Muhammad. That was never the State
Department's conclusion, reporters were told.

Attack: The four men died after riots over an anti-Islamic film stormed past the
U.S. embassy in Benghazi

The Republican-led House Oversight and Government Reform Committee holds a
Wednesday hearing Wednesday on diplomatic security in the attack that killed
U.S. Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens and three other Americans.

The attack as become a political football in the final weeks before the
election.

The surviving members of the compound have now described the overnight attack,
which saw agents trapped in the burning compound before finally speeding away.

As they drove through the crowd, attackers threw grenades and sprayed their
armoured vehicle with gunfire from AK-47 assault rifles from a distance of two
feet.

Meanwhile, the ambassador was locked in a safe-room as the compound filled with
flames.

When the decision was made to escape the diesel-heavy smoke, it was too late,
and Stevens never made it out.September 11, 2012, started out as a regular day
in the U.S. consulate in Benghazi.

The site is the size of a football field surrounded by a nine-foot wall topped
by barbed wire and other security upgrades.

Ambassador Stevens arrived in the city the day before, accompanied by a
five-person security detail.

As it was the anniversary of 9/11, the American envoy decided to hold meetings
inside the secured compound, fearing possible acts of violence.

Then, at around 8:30pm that evening, Stevens concluded his final meeting of the
day and retired for the night, unaware of what was to come an hour later.

At 9.40pm, security agents started hearing loud noises, gunfire and explosions
near the front gate.

A barracks at the entrance housing the local militiamen was burnt down, and a
large group of armed men was captured on a security camera flowing into the
consulate.

The alarm was sounded and one agent, armed with a sidearm and an M4 submachine
gun, led Stevens and computer specialist Sean Smith to a safe room inside one of
the compound's two main residences.

The room is equipped with a heavy metal grill and several locks, as well as
windows that can be opened only from the inside.

The other security officials armed themselves with long guns, body armor,
helmets and ammunition at other buildings.

Two of them made an attempt to enter the building with Stevens, but were forced
to retreat after meeting resistance.

Attackers eventually managed to enter the building where the ambassador was
hiding and attempted to open the door to the safe room, but to no avail.

Instead, they dumped jerry cans of diesel fuel in the building, lit furniture on
fire and set the exterior of the building on fire.

Two of the remaining four agents barricaded the insides of the compound's other
residence, preventing the armed men from entering.

The protesters then attempted to gain access to the tactical operations center,
but were unable to enter the building despite smashing the door.

Meanwhile, the building that was housing the ambassador rapidly began filling up
with thick diesel smoke and fumes from the burning furniture.

Inside, visibility was less than three feet.

Unable to breathe, the Americans opened a window in the bathroom, but it proved
insufficient to fill the room with fresh air.  At that point, a decision was
made to leave the building.

The agent went out first, as is standard procedure, flopping out onto a patio
enclosed by sandbags and immediately taking fire, believed to include
rocket-propelled grenades.

Stevens and Smith did not come out, so the third agent, suffering severely from
smoke inhalation, went in and out of the building several times to look for
them.

He then climbed to the roof  and collapsed, but not before radioing the other
agents to alert them.

The other four agents were able to reunite and take an armored vehicle to
Stevens' building.

They reached the agent on the roof and tried to set up a perimeter. Taking turns
enter the building, the agents scoured the premises on their hands and knees for
the missing Americans.

Smith was eventually pulled out dead. Stevens was not found.

A six-person quick reaction security team arrived from their compound across
town accompanied by about 60 Libyan militiamen accompany. They also attempted to
secure a perimeter around the building, but determined that they could not hold
it.

Outnumbered by 'an unbelievable amount of bad guys' in the compound, the militia
fighters told the security team they had to evacuate, according to a State
Department official.

'We've got to leave, we can't hold the perimeter,' the official said the militia
told the team.

After taking fire, a decision was made to evacuate the compound and return with
everyone to the reaction force's compound.

Agents piled into an armored vehicle, with Smith's body in tow, and left through
the main gate under fire.

Crowds and groups of men blocked two different routes to the security compound,
creating heavy traffic that slowed down the escaping Americans to about 15mph.

Traveling a narrow street, they reached a group of men who signaled for them to
enter a compound.

However, the security officials 'smelled a rat' and sped away, taking heavy fire
from AK-47 machine guns at a distance of only two feet, and hand grenades thrown
against and under the car which blew two of the tires.

They sped past another crowd of men and onto a main street and across a grassy
median into opposing traffic. The agents drove against traffic, eventually
reaching their compound, where they took more heavy fire for several hours.

INVESTIGATION: CAUSE OF ATTACK WAS NOT BASED ON FILM PROTESTS

The State Department says it never concluded that the attack was simply a
protest gone awry.

Meanwhile the investigating committee's chairman, Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif.,
has accused the State Department of turning aside pleas from its diplomats in
Libya to increase security in the months and weeks before the attack.

One scheduled witness, Eric Nordstrom, the former chief security officer for
U.S. diplomats in Libya, told the committee his pleas for more security were
ignored.

Department officials were asked about the administration's initial - and since
retracted - explanation linking the violence to protests over an American-made
anti-Muslim video circulating on the Internet.

One official responded 'that was not our conclusion' and called it a question
for 'others' to answer, without specifying to whom he was referring.

The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to
speak publicly on the matter, and provided no evidence that might suggest a case
of spontaneous violence or angry protests that went too far.

Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney and Republican lawmakers have
increasingly sharpened their criticism of the administration's initial
explanation of the attack.

They said they never accepted the original explanation.

It was a top administration diplomatic official, United Nations Ambassador Susan
Rice, who gave a series of interviews five days after the attack that wrongly
described the attack as spontaneous.

She said that the administration believed the violence was unplanned and that
extremists with heavier weapons 'hijacked' the protest against the anti-Islamic
video.

She did qualify her remarks to say that was the best information she had at the
time. Rice since has denied trying to mislead Congress.

A concurrent CIA memo obtained by The Associated Press cited intelligence
suggesting the demonstrations in Benghazi 'were spontaneously inspired by the
protests at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo' and 'evolved into a direct assault' on
the diplomatic posts by 'extremists'.

Nordstrom, the former security official in Libya, addressed the diplomatic
security issue in an October 1 email to a congressional investigator.

He said his requests for more security were blocked by a department policy to
'normalise operations and reduce security resources'.

A memo on Tuesday by the Oversight Committee's Democratic staff provided details
of Nordstrom's interview with the panel's investigators.

In that interview, Nordstrom said he sent two cables to State Department
headquarters in March 2012 and July 2012 requesting additional diplomatic
security agents for Benghazi, but he received no responses.

He stated that Charlene Lamb, the deputy assistant secretary for international
programs, wanted to keep the number of U.S. security personnel in Benghazi
artificially low.

He said Lamb believed the Benghazi facilities did not need any diplomatic
security special agents because there was a residential safe haven to fall back
to in an emergency.

Nordstrom's October 1 memo to the congressional investigator said: 'You will
note that there were a number of incidents that targeted diplomatic missions and
underscored the GoL's (government of Libya) inability to secure and protect
diplomatic missions.

'This was a significant part of (the diplomatic) post's and my argument for
maintaining continued DS (diplomatic security) and DOD (Department of Defense)
security assets into Sept/Oct. 2012 - the GoL was overwhelmed and could not
guarantee our protection.

'Sadly, that point was reaffirmed on Sept. 11, 2012, in Benghazi.'

In the night, a team of reinforcements from the U.S. Embassy in Tripoli arrived
on a chartered aircraft at the Benghazi airport and reached the security
compound.

At around 4am, the compound's building was hit by mortar fire which killed
agents Doherty and Woods. One agent who was involved in the attack from the
beginning was severely wounded.

The men then decided to evacuate the city entirely. The following several hours
were spent securing the annex and moving a large convoy of vehicles to the
airport before they were evacuated on two flights.

Stevens was not seen by the security team again until his body was delivered to
the airport, officials said, and they still do know how he reached the Libyan
hospital where attempts were made to treat him for smoke inhalation.

Officials said that they were informed that Stevens was at the hospital only
after doctors found his cell phone and began calling the most recently dialled
numbers.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 10, 2012 Wednesday 2:17 PM GMT

Hillary Clinton's State Department says it NEVER believed terrorist attack on
U.S. consulate in Benghazi was result of protest over anti-Islam movie

BYLINE: EDDIE WRENN and TOBY HARNDEN IN WASHINGTON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1957 words



     ·    Officials tell how ambassador Chris Stevens was trapped in safe-room
          as assailants burnt the compound down
     ·    AK-47s, grenade attacks, and a smoke-filled safe-room - chilling
          account of the death of U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens revealed
     ·    Administration originally said assault stemmed from protests against
          anti-Islam video - now suggests extremists 'hijacked protests'
     ·    Stevens' whereabouts after attack was not known until officials rang
          his cell phone - and found doctors trying unsuccessfully to save his
          life in hospital
     ·    Most serious attack on U.S. diplomatic building since al-Qaeda bombed
          the embassies in Kenya and Tanzania 14 years ago


The State Department has said that it never believed the September 11th attack
on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was the result of a protest over an
aniti-Islam movie - directly contracting the rest of the Obama administration.

By trying to distance her department from the inept and deceptive handling of
the Benghazi attack, which left U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens and three other
American officials dead, Hillary Clinton could help herself politically for a
2016 presidential run.

A new account by the State Department reveals that Stevens was locked inside a
'safe room'choking to death from diesel-heavy smoke as the building around him
burned to the ground.

Alongside him was a security agent, tasked with the impossible choice between
staying in the deadly room - or facing the rocket-propelled grenades and
machine-guns outside.

Eventually the agent slipped through the window - and was indeed cut down by the
grenades.

These were the final moments of U.S. ambassador Chris Stevens, killed during
last month's deadly strike on the American consulate in Benghazi, Libya, and
recounted this week in horrific detail by his surviving security team.

No-one saw the ambassador alive again - another agent tried desperately to enter
the safe-room, but could not find him anywhere.

The surviving members of the compound have now described the overnight attack,
which saw agents trapped in the burning compound before finally speeding away.

As they drove through the crowd, attackers threw grenades and sprayed their
armoured vehicle with gunfire from AK-47 assault rifles from a distance of two
feet.

Meanwhile, the ambassador was locked in a safe-room as the compound filled with
flames.

When the decision was made to escape the diesel-heavy smoke, it was too late,
and Stevens never made it out.

Attack: The four men died after riots over an anti-Islamic film stormed past the
U.S. embassy in Benghazi

September 11, 2012, started out as a regular day in the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi.

The site is the size of a football field surrounded by a nine-foot wall topped
by barbed wire and other security upgrades.

Ambassador Stevens arrived in the city the day before, accompanied by a
five-person security detail.

As it was the anniversary of 9/11, the American envoy decided to hold meetings
inside the secured compound, fearing possible acts of violence.

Then, at around 8:30pm that evening, Stevens concluded his final meeting of the
day and retired for the night, unaware of what was to come an hour later.

At 9.40pm, security agents started hearing loud noises, gunfire and explosions
near the front gate.

A barracks at the entrance housing the local militiamen was burnt down, and a
large group of armed men was captured on a security camera flowing into the
consulate.

The alarm was sounded and one agent, armed with a sidearm and an M4 submachine
gun, led Stevens and computer specialist Sean Smith to a safe room inside one of
the compound's two main residences.

The room is equipped with a heavy metal grill and several locks, as well as
windows that can be opened only from the inside.

The other security officials armed themselves with long guns, body armor,
helmets and ammunition at other buildings.

Two of them made an attempt to enter the building with Stevens, but were forced
to retreat after meeting resistance.

Attackers eventually managed to enter the building where the ambassador was
hiding and attempted to open the door to the safe room, but to no avail.

Instead, they dumped jerry cans of diesel fuel in the building, lit furniture on
fire and set the exterior of the building on fire.

Two of the remaining four agents barricaded the insides of the compound's other
residence, preventing the armed men from entering.

The protesters then attempted to gain access to the tactical operations center,
but were unable to enter the building despite smashing the door.

Meanwhile, the building that was housing the ambassador rapidly began filling up
with thick diesel smoke and fumes from the burning furniture.

Inside, visibility was less than three feet.

Unable to breathe, the Americans opened a window in the bathroom, but it proved
insufficient to fill the room with fresh air.  At that point, a decision was
made to leave the building.

The agent went out first, as is standard procedure, flopping out onto a patio
enclosed by sandbags and immediately taking fire, believed to include
rocket-propelled grenades.

Stevens and Smith did not come out, so the third agent, suffering severely from
smoke inhalation, went in and out of the building several times to look for
them.

He then climbed to the roof  and collapsed, but not before radioing the other
agents to alert them.

The other four agents were able to reunite and take an armored vehicle to
Stevens' building.

They reached the agent on the roof and tried to set up a perimeter. Taking turns
enter the building, the agents scoured the premises on their hands and knees for
the missing Americans.

Smith was eventually pulled out dead. Stevens was not found.

A six-person quick reaction security team arrived from their compound across
town accompanied by about 60 Libyan militiamen accompany. They also attempted to
secure a perimeter around the building, but determined that they could not hold
it.

Outnumbered by 'an unbelievable amount of bad guys' in the compound, the militia
fighters told the security team they had to evacuate, according to a State
Department official.

'We've got to leave, we can't hold the perimeter,' the official said the militia
told the team.

After taking fire, a decision was made to evacuate the compound and return with
everyone to the reaction force's compound.

Agents piled into an armored vehicle, with Smith's body in tow, and left through
the main gate under fire.

Crowds and groups of men blocked two different routes to the security compound,
creating heavy traffic that slowed down the escaping Americans to about 15mph.

Traveling a narrow street, they reached a group of men who signaled for them to
enter a compound.

However, the security officials 'smelled a rat' and sped away, taking heavy fire
from AK-47 machine guns at a distance of only two feet, and hand grenades thrown
against and under the car which blew two of the tires.

They sped past another crowd of men and onto a main street and across a grassy
median into opposing traffic. The agents drove against traffic, eventually
reaching their compound, where they took more heavy fire for several hours.

INVESTIGATION: CAUSE OF ATTACK WAS NOT BASED ON FILM PROTESTS

The State Department says it never concluded that the attack was simply a
protest gone awry.

Meanwhile the investigating committee's chairman, Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif.,
has accused the State Department of turning aside pleas from its diplomats in
Libya to increase security in the months and weeks before the attack.

One scheduled witness, Eric Nordstrom, the former chief security officer for
U.S. diplomats in Libya, told the committee his pleas for more security were
ignored.

Department officials were asked about the administration's initial - and since
retracted - explanation linking the violence to protests over an American-made
anti-Muslim video circulating on the Internet.

One official responded 'that was not our conclusion' and called it a question
for 'others' to answer, without specifying to whom he was referring.

The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to
speak publicly on the matter, and provided no evidence that might suggest a case
of spontaneous violence or angry protests that went too far.

Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney and Republican lawmakers have
increasingly sharpened their criticism of the administration's initial
explanation of the attack.

They said they never accepted the original explanation.

It was a top administration diplomatic official, United Nations Ambassador Susan
Rice, who gave a series of interviews five days after the attack that wrongly
described the attack as spontaneous.

She said that the administration believed the violence was unplanned and that
extremists with heavier weapons 'hijacked' the protest against the anti-Islamic
video.

She did qualify her remarks to say that was the best information she had at the
time. Rice since has denied trying to mislead Congress.

A concurrent CIA memo obtained by The Associated Press cited intelligence
suggesting the demonstrations in Benghazi 'were spontaneously inspired by the
protests at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo' and 'evolved into a direct assault' on
the diplomatic posts by 'extremists'.

Nordstrom, the former security official in Libya, addressed the diplomatic
security issue in an October 1 email to a congressional investigator.

He said his requests for more security were blocked by a department policy to
'normalise operations and reduce security resources'.

A memo on Tuesday by the Oversight Committee's Democratic staff provided details
of Nordstrom's interview with the panel's investigators.

In that interview, Nordstrom said he sent two cables to State Department
headquarters in March 2012 and July 2012 requesting additional diplomatic
security agents for Benghazi, but he received no responses.

He stated that Charlene Lamb, the deputy assistant secretary for international
programs, wanted to keep the number of U.S. security personnel in Benghazi
artificially low.

He said Lamb believed the Benghazi facilities did not need any diplomatic
security special agents because there was a residential safe haven to fall back
to in an emergency.

Nordstrom's October 1 memo to the congressional investigator said: 'You will
note that there were a number of incidents that targeted diplomatic missions and
underscored the GoL's (government of Libya) inability to secure and protect
diplomatic missions.

'This was a significant part of (the diplomatic) post's and my argument for
maintaining continued DS (diplomatic security) and DOD (Department of Defense)
security assets into Sept/Oct. 2012 - the GoL was overwhelmed and could not
guarantee our protection.

'Sadly, that point was reaffirmed on Sept. 11, 2012, in Benghazi.'

In the night, a team of reinforcements from the U.S. Embassy in Tripoli arrived
on a chartered aircraft at the Benghazi airport and reached the security
compound.

At around 4am, the compound's building was hit by mortar fire which killed
agents Doherty and Woods. One agent who was involved in the attack from the
beginning was severely wounded.

The men then decided to evacuate the city entirely. The following several hours
were spent securing the annex and moving a large convoy of vehicles to the
airport before they were evacuated on two flights.

Stevens was not seen by the security team again until his body was delivered to
the airport, officials said, and they still do know how he reached the Libyan
hospital where attempts were made to treat him for smoke inhalation.

Officials said that they were informed that Stevens was at the hospital only
after doctors found his cell phone and began calling the most recently dialled
numbers.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    October 10, 2012 Wednesday 10:47 PM GMT

Congress told terrorist attack on US consulate in Benghazi was 'a matter of
time';
A terrorist attack on the US consulate in Benghazi was "a matter of time" as
security was reduced even as the country became more violent, the former
commander of an American special forces team in Libya said Wednesday.

BYLINE: By Raf Sanchez Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 722 words


Security at the lightly-guarded diplomatic site was "weak" despite repeated
requests for more protection in the months before the raid that killed the US
ambassador to Libya, Lieutenant Colonel Andrew Wood told a Congressional
committee.

His said his special forces troops, who were assigned to protect American
diplomats in Libya, were withdrawn weeks before the attack and that Washington
ignored warnings that the consulate was vulnerable.

In a televised hearing designed to put the Obama administration's handling of
the September 11 assault on trial, Republicans claimed that the State Department
had pressured its diplomats to "artificially" reduce security arrangements in an
effort make Libya appear safe.

The attack on in the eastern Libyan city killed four Americans, including
ambassador Chris Stevens - the first diplomatic envoy to be killed in the line
of duty since 1979.

The Obama administration has been criticised for its handling of the assault but
also its changing description of the cause of the attacks after initially
claiming that the killings the result of an out-of-control protest against an
anti-Islamic film.

State Department officials said there had been no protest outside of the
consulate on the night of the attack, flatly contradicting claims initially made
by Susan Rice, the US Ambassador to the UN, that a peaceful demonstration had
been "hijacked" by militants.

When asked about the contradicting accounts, a senior State Department official
said that "others" in the US government had claimed there were protests but
"that was not our conclusion".

Lt Col Wood said the US consulate had remained lightly guarded even after the
Britain and the Red Cross had withdrawn from the city out of safety concerns. "I
almost expected the attack to come. We were the last flag flying, it was a
matter of time," he said.

Much of the Congressional hearing focused on the 16-man Site Security Team (SST)
led by Lt Col Wood and the decision to withdraw it from Libya a month before the
attacks.

Both the military officer and Eric Nordstrom, the former head of security for
the US mission to Libya, said they had been repeatedly frustrated or ignored as
they tried to convince superiors in Washington that the special forces team
should remain in place.

"We were fighting a losing battle," Lt Col Wood said. "We couldn't even keep
what we had."

Mr Nordstrom said he asked for a team of 12 diplomatic security agents to
replace the commandos and was told "you're asking for the sun, the moon and the
stars" as his request was denied.

"For me the Taliban was inside the building," he said, describing his battle
against bureaucracy at the State Department's Washington headquarters.

Charlene Lamb, a senior State Department official with responsibility for
diplomatic security, said that the SST had been adequately replaced with a
combination of American security agents and local Libyan guards.

"We had the correct number of assets in Benghazi at the time of 9/11 for what
had been agreed upon," she said.

Congressman Darrell Issa, the committee's Republican chair, angrily replied: "To
start off by saying you had the correct number when our ambassador and three
other individuals are dead... somehow doesn't seem to ring true to the American
people."

Mr Nordstrom said he had been ordered to "reduce security resources in
accordance with an artificial timetable" and that Washington ignored a list of
more than 200 security incidents in Libya, including 48 in Benghazi, that he
submitted as evidence of the volatility of the situation on the ground.

Congressman Dennis Ross, a Republican, said the decision to keep security at a
minimal level was the "result of political pressure trumping professional
protocol" and the State Department's eagerness to make Libya appear safer than
it was.

Ambassador Patrick Kennedy, the State Department's Undersecretary for
Management, angrily denied the charge and said that it was vital for US
diplomats to be posted in countries even if there was an element of danger.

"This is an inherently risky operation," he said. "We can't always withdraw to
fortresses"

The hearing in Washington came as John Brennan, the White House's chief
counter-terrorism adviser, visited Tripoli to urge the Libyan government to take
swift action against the militants responsible for the Benghazi attack.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 11, 2012 Thursday 12:03 AM GMT

Security was always 'weak' in Benghazi, Special Forces security soldier who
commanded U.S. diplomat protection tells congressional hearing after terrorist
attack

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 772 words



     ·    Congressional hearings began Wednesday discussing the security
          measures in place at American embassy in Libya at the time of the
          September 11 attack that left four dead
     ·    Came on same day as White House confirmed that, in spite of original
          declarations, the attack was premeditated
     ·    Republicans and Democrats placing blame on one another


Diplomatic security for the U.S. mission in Benghazi was 'a struggle' and
security teams in Libya were drawn down ahead of last month's fatal attack, the
former head of a U.S. security team in Libya told lawmakers on Wednesday.

'Diplomatic security remained weak. In April there was only one U.S. diplomatic
security agent stationed there,' Lieutenant Colonel Andrew Wood told the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee during Congress' first hearing on the
assault that killed U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other
Americans.

'The situation remained uncertain and reports from some Libyans indicated it was
getting worse.

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

'The security in Benghazi was a struggle and remained a struggle throughout my
time there.'

Wood said that when he arrived in Libya in February there were three U.S.
diplomatic special security teams in the country, but by August they had been
withdrawn.

He served as the Site Security Team commander in Libya for six months prior to
the attack. Woods said he came forward to the congressional committee after
Stevens and the three other Americans were killed in the assault.

'The killing of a U.S. ambassador is a rare and extraordinary thing and requires
our attention as a people,' he said.

'As a citizen I made the determination that this outweighs all other interests
and will risk whatever circumstances may result from my testimony.'

In a day filled with official testimonials, another revelation came from a top
diplomatic security deputy who said that she declined to approve more U.S.
security as violence in Benghazi spiked, saying the department wanted to train
Libyans to protect the consulate.

'I made the best decisions I could with the information I had,' said Charlene R.
Lamb, a deputy assistant secretary for diplomatic security.

Partisan tension quickly spilled out at the hearing, with Republicans accusing
the State Department of not being fully cooperative in providing information on
security decisions before the attack. Democrats accused the majority Republicans
of conducting a one-sided probe that excluded them.

Republican charges that the United States was caught unprepared for the
September 11 attack have put the administration of President Barack Obama, a
Democrat, on the defensive ahead of the November 6 presidential election.

Republicans continued their line of attack that the administration initially
issued misleading comments saying the assault was a spontaneous event that
sprang from a protest against an anti-Islam video.

Administration officials said those initial comments, including by U.S.
Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice, resulted from the best information
at that time.

'The information she had at that point from the intelligence community is the
same that I had at that point,' testified Patrick Kennedy, the under secretary
of state for management.

However, Reuters reported last week that within hours of the attack, the Obama
administration received about a dozen intelligence reports suggesting militants
connected to al Qaeda were involved.

White House spokesman Jay Carney told reporters Wednesday that in hindsight
'there is no question that the security was not enough to prevent that tragedy
from happening. There were four Americans killed.'

Democrats on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee tried to blame
Republicans for cutting more than $300 million in diplomatic security funds
worldwide.

'The fact is that, since 2011, the House has cut embassy security by hundreds of
millions of dollars below the amounts requested by the president,' said Maryland
Representative Elijah Cummings, the committee's senior Democrat.

Eric Nordstrom, who was the top security official in Libya earlier this year,
testified he was criticized for seeking more security. 'There was no plan and it
was hoped it would get better,' he said.

Nordstrom told the committee that conversations he had with people in Washington
led him to believe that it was 'abundantly clear we were not going to get
resources until the aftermath of an incident. How thin does the ice have to get
before someone falls through?'

WATCH THE VIDEO HERE

Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 12, 2012 Friday

Pakistan cabinet condemns terror attack on teen activist

LENGTH: 773 words


Text of report from Radio Pakistan on 11 October

The Federal Cabinet condemning terrorists attack on Malala Yousufzai and other
girls has vowed to root out terrorism.

The Cabinet at its meeting in Islamabad on Thursday' [11 Oct] chaired by Prime
Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf also prayed for early recovery of all the girls.

In his remarks' the Prime Minister said special instructions have been given to
the relevant authorities to provide best medical treatment available at home and
abroad at Government expense to the injured girls.

He said the nation has the will and determination to protect its values and the
future of its children.

Later' briefing newsmen Minister for Information Qamar Zaman Kaira said Prime
Minister invited leadership of all political parties to accompany him to the
hospital in Rawalpindi tomorrow to inquire about the health of Malala Yousafzai.

He said the decision to invite political leadership was taken to express
solidarity and give collective response to the situation emerging out of attack
on Malala.

To a question the Minister said the political leadership would be approached
through letters or telephone and hoped that all would respond positively as this
is not a political issue.

Minister said cabinet strongly condemned the attack and urged that the incident
demands complete unity in the ranks of the nation to face the challenge and foil
designs of extremist elements.

The information minister said best possible medical treatment is being provided
to Malala after her shifting to CMH Rawalpindi. In addition an air ambulance has
been placed in ready-to-fly state for shifting abroad if needed.

To a question' he said the nation needs to join hands to fight terrorism and
anti-state elements.

In the second session of the Cabinet' the Sub-Committee of the Cabinet on
Balochistan presented its report. All members of the cabinet and other
stakeholders were asked to give their proposals and input so that the
recommendations are finalized in the next meeting to be held exclusively on this
issue and implementation process is started.

Mr. Kaira said in its report the Committee has recommended that political
reconciliation should be given top priority and dialogue should be started with
all concerned with the involvement of notables and elders who can easily
communicate with them.

He said the Prime Minister has already made it clear that dialogue would be
initiated with all those who are willing to talk under the banner of national
flag.

The report also recommends that interference in prevalent cultural regime and
tribal system should be avoided.

The Committee has emphasized that the next elections should be free' fair and
transparent and reservations of political parties' if any' should be removed.
Whosoever gets majority in the election should be handed over power.

It has also recommended diplomatic efforts to counter and expose foreign
interference in the province.

The Committee has proposed formation of an Apex Committee consisting of
Governor' Chief Minister and Corps Commander for coordination. All law enforcing
agencies and intelligence agencies would be accountable to the Committee. It
will also look into the prospects of any change in A and B areas of the province
in consultation with all stakeholders.

An Additional Secretary level officer of BS-20 would be entrusted responsibility
for coordination of law and order issues.

All Federal Ministries and Departments would be asked to provide details of
vacancies against Balochistan quota and these would be filled in within one
month through transparent mechanism from amongst those having genuine domicile
of the province. If needed' relaxation in rules would also be given for the
recruitment.

The Committee has recommended that FIR in respect of all those perceived to be
missing should be lodged for proper investigation.

A Standing Committee of Religious Leaders would be set up to ensure religious
harmony in the province.

The Information Minister said the Committee has categorically stated that all
armed person' organizations and groups should be identified and eliminated.

The Committee has also recommended release of funds on priority basis for
Ratto-Dero-Gwadar road and Katchhi canal. The Minister said funds for the canal
have already been released and these would be released soon for the road.

The Cabinet also approved extension in the lease of the Saindak Project after
consent for the purpose by the provincial government.

It also approved policy guidelines for OGRA and start of negotiations with
Equador for signing of agreement for export of skilled manpower.

Source: Radio Pakistan, Islamabad in Urdu 1905gmt 11 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 12, 2012 Friday

Pakistan PM, leaders vow to uproot terrorism after attack on activist

LENGTH: 613 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 12 October: Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf on Friday [12 October]
termed Malala Yousufzai the real face of Pakistan and said that the nation would
stand united against the brutal acts of terrorism.

"Whosoever will try to disrupt the peace of country, the Pakistani nation will
shun it," Prime Minister Ashraf said in his statement to media persons at the
Armed Forces Institute of Cardiology (AFIC) after enquiring the health of
Malala, who was wounded in a gun attack in Swat on Tuesday.

Pakistan Muslim League (Q) leader Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain, Muttahida Qaumi
Movement's Farooq Sattar, Awami National Party's Haji Adeel and
Jamaat-i-Islami's Mian [honorific] Aslam joined the prime minister during the
visit to the AFIC. The prime minister had invited the country's political
leadership to jointly visit Malala at the hospital, in yesterday's Cabinet's
meeting.

Flanked by the political leaders, the prime minister said that their presence
reflected the unanimity of vision on remaining steadfast against terrorism.

He said that the attack on Malala was not only a heinous act against an
individual, but also against humanity.

He said that the extremists attacked Malala, who was voicing for the rights of
girls.

"We will not allow anyone to distort the face of Pakistan, who has been
idealized by other girls in the country for her bravery," he said.

He pledged to fight the militant mindset for the future of the country.

The prime minister said that the representatives of different political parties
gathered here to pay tribute to Malala Yousafzai for bravery and courage, who
along with her friends was subjected to a cowardly attack by senseless people.

He said that the nation stood united in condemning the brutality and degradation
of those, who perpetrated this crime and the poisoned mindset that seeks to
destroy the soul of the nation.

The prime minister said the attack on Malala was not a crime against an
individual but a crime against humanity and an attack on core moral and social
values.

The extremists attacked Malala for what she stands for because they were scared
of the power of her vision, he added.

Prime Minister Ashraf said that Ms Malala had a simple message "The right for
girls to be educated".

He said that Malala was a true Pakistani and the real face of Pakistan. "We will
not allow any one to destroy the face of Pakistan".

The prime minister said Malala had created a movement across Pakistan and the
girls wanted to follow her footprints.

He had often said: "We face a threat from a bigoted and radicalized mindset,
which wants to rob us of our cherished values of peace, pluralism, moderation,
tolerance and passion for knowledge", he added and pledged to fight this
mindset.

The prime minister said it was this mindset, which was behind the martyrdom of
Shaheed Mohtarma Benazir Bhutto.

"We pledge that we will not allow the future of our children to be endangered by
the militant mindset and we pledge that the enemies of Pakistan will never be
allowed to succeed," said the Prime Minister in the statement.

He said: "We pledge that we will uproot this menace of extremism and militancy
and pledge that we will not surrender the soul of the nation."

He said that every Pakistani was praying for the complete recovery of Malala.

The prime minister said that Ms Malala was under the best possible care and
being treated by the best professionals of the country. He said that he had
enquired from the doctors about her condition and was told that next 36 hours
were critical for her.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1319gmt
12 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 12, 2012 Friday 10:46 AM GMT

Bali bombing victims remembered on 10th aniversary of terror attack;
Hundreds attend a memorial service in Bali to commemorate the 10th anniversary
of the night club bombings in Indonesia that killed 202 people.

LENGTH: 213 words


The blasts were a watershed for Indonesia, which has the world's largest Muslim
population, forcing the secular state to confront the presence of violent
Islamists.

The country has been largely successful in containing militancy and there have
been no big attacks on Western targets since 2009, when suicide bombers attacked
two hotels in the capital, Jakarta, killing nine people and wounding 53.

Speaking at a memorial service held in Bali, Australia's Prime Minister Julia
Gillard called the bombings, which killed 88 Australians, a failure in its aim
of terror.

"Even as the debris fell it was obvious the attack on our sense of ourselves as
Australians, as human beings, had failed. Rescuers ran towards the terror.
Volunteers extended their hands by the hundreds, Indonesians and Australians
alike. A remarkable medical effort swung into place. A thorough policing effort
followed, methodically dismantling the terrorist network responsible and our two
countries drew closer than we had ever been before," she said.

After the bombings, security forces detained nearly 600 militants, most of whom
have been jailed.

Three main perpetrators of the bombings, members of a Southeast Asian militant
group allied with al Qaeda, were convicted and executed by firing squad in 2008.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      October 12, 2012 Friday 2:30 AM GMT

Cyber terrorists are 'plotting attack on US infrastructure'

BYLINE: Michael Evans, Pentagon correspondent

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 619 words


The United States has to be prepared to deter a cyber attack on the country's
infrastructure which would be as destructive as 9/11, Leon Panetta, the US
Defence Secretary, warned last night.

Speaking in New York which bore the brunt of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Mr
Panetta said enemies of the US were already plotting to launch cyber strikes
that could "paralyse the nation".

In the most alarming language used by any member of the Obama administration, he
said that before September 11 2001, the warnings had been there, but "we weren't
organised, we weren't ready and we suffered terribly for that".

"We cannot let that happen again. This is a pre-9/11 moment. The attackers are
plotting. Our systems will never be impenetrable, just like our physical
defences are not perfect, but more can be done to improve them," he told an
organisation called Business Executives for National Security.

Mr Panetta revealed that "foreign cyber actors" were already targeting the
computer control systems that operate chemical, electricity and water plants in
America, "and those that guide transportation throughout the country".

"We know of specific instances where intruders have successfully gained access
to these control systems. We also know they are seeking to create advanced tools
to attack these systems and cause panic, destruction and even loss of life," he
said.

Painting the worst scenario, he said an "aggressor nation or extremist group"
could gain control of critical switches and derail passenger trains or freight
trains loaded with lethal chemicals.

"The most destructive scenarios involve cyber actors launching several attacks
on our critical infrastructure at once, in combination with a physical attack on
our country," Mr Panetta said.

"The collective result of these kinds of attacks could be 'cyber Pearl Harbour',
an attack that would cause physical destruction and loss of life, paralyse and
shock the nation and create a profound sense of vulnerability," he warned.

He highlighted two cyber attacks that have taken place in the last two months: a
virus called "Shamoon" infected computers at Aramco, the Saudi Arabian state oil
company, which replaced crucial system files with an image of a burning US flag;
a similar attack a few days later targeted Ras Gas, a major energy company in
Qatar.

To counter the growing threat, the Pentagon and the National Security Agency
have developed a sophisticated system to detect cyber intruders. The Defence
Department is spending more than $3 billion a year in cyber security. But Mr
Panetta said his department was also responsible for taking action against any
foreign adversary which chose to strike America with cyber warfare.

"If a crippling cyber attack were launched against our nation, the American
people must be protected, and if the Commander-in-Chief orders a response, the
Defence Department must be ready to act," he said.

He revealed that the Pentagon was finalising a comprehensive change to the rules
of engagement which would allow swift action to be taken against suspected
attackers.

He accused Iran of making a concerted effort "to use cyberspace to its
advantage". He also named China and Russia as having advanced cyber
capabilities.

However, he said the Pentagon was already engaged in "an intense daily struggle
against thousands of cyber actors who probe the Defence Department's networks
millions of times per day".

Mr Panetta urged the businessmen to play their part in protecting America's
infrastructure from cyber attack, and called on Congress to approve the
Cybersecurity Act of 2012 which has "fallen victim to legislative and political
gridlock". This was unacceptable "to anyone concerned with safeguarding our
national security".

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Herald

                            October 14, 2012 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Remaining in Nato  would make terrorist attack more likely

BYLINE: by tom gordon

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 474 words


STAYING in Nato could increase the risk of a terror attack against an
independent Scotland, according to the first expert assessment of the likely
security threats following separation.

Titled No Need To Be Afraid, and published by the left-wing Jimmy Reid
Foundation, it weighs the risks from terrorism, cyberwar, climate change, social
unrest and attacks on Scottish sovereignty over 30 years, and concludes there is
little to fear in security terms from leaving the UK.

The only serious threat outside Scotland s control is climate change and its
attendant economic and social problems, it says.

Independence could even improve security if it led to the removal of nuclear
weapons from the Clyde   which could suffer accidents or attacks from terrorists
and Scotland was more distant from controversial UK foreign policies.

However, the report also warns  membership of military alliances with policies
of aggression or retaliation, such as Nato  could increase the threat to
Scottish security.

It cites the 2004 al-Qaeda attacks on trains in Madrid that killed 200 people as
an example of a junior Nato member being targeted in order to try to create
splits in Nato over Iraq and Afghanistan.

The report is based on questionnaires completed by Dr Rebecca Johnson of the
Acronym Institute for Disarmament Diplomacy; Paul Rogers, Professor of Peace
Studies at Bradford University; William Walker, Professor of International
Relations at St Andrews University; and Dr Bill Patterson of Stirling University
s politics department.

On the eve of a key debate on defence at the SNP conference this week, it argues
that to date the discussion around the defence of an independent Scotland has
been fundamentally flawed.

It says there has been no  credible assessment of the most pressing security
threats and no consideration of non-military responses.

Realistically, Scotland does not face any direct territorial threats,  except as
a result of collateral damage in the event of conflict between the US and
Russian and China, it says.

As long as Russia and Nato remain wedded to 20th-century military attitudes ...
there remain not insignificant risks that panic, miscalculation, inadvertence or
military decisions may precipitate nuclear conflict, with or without other
military engagement.

If that were to happen, Scotland could be particularly vulnerable because of the
nuclear warhead store at RNAD Coulport and the Trident homeport at Faslane.

Reid Foundation director Robin McAlpine said:  What this report shows is that
nothing could be more irrelevant to modern Scotland than this incessant chatter
about Nato. Environmental change and austerity are a much bigger threat to the
way of life of ordinary  Scots than imaginary armies out  to get us.

It s time there was a more serious debate about what security really means for
the Scottish people.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SH


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      October 15, 2012 Monday 12:13 AM GMT

An independent Scotland 'would be defenceless against terror attack'

BYLINE: Hamish Macdonell

SECTION: DEFENCE

LENGTH: 646 words


An independent Scotland would be left effectively blind and defenceless against
the threat of terrorist attack without the continuing help of the remaining
parts of the UK, according to a new defence report published today.

The report, from the Royal United Services Institute think-tank, warns that an
independent Scotland would have to reach agreement to buy intelligence material
from the UK.

It would also have to rely on the rest of the UK to provide the Special Forces
cover needed to protect the country's oil platforms from terrorist attack - at
least until a Scottish Special Forces team could be trained, which would take at
least three years.

With Alex Salmond meeting David Cameron today to sign the agreement authorising
the independence referendum, the report will only draw attention to the lack of
detail provided by the SNP for their independence plans.

The report, compiled by Lieutenant-Colonel Stuart Crawford, a former defence
spokesman for the SNP, and Richard Marsh, an economist, suggests that the
Scottish defence forces could be brought together for considerably less than at
present - about £1.8 billion rather than the £3 billion that is paid by Scottish
taxpayers each year at the moment. But, for this reduced outlay, Scotland would
get much less in terms of hardware and military capability.

There would be no fast jets, such as Typhoons or Tornadoes. Instead the mainstay
of the Scottish air force would be the Hawk, which is mostly used as a training
aircraft. And an independent Scotland would have no ships bigger than a frigate.
The army would have no tanks or heavy artillery, leaving instead a lightweight
army shorn of much of the hardware that the UK forces at present take for
granted.

But much of the attention will be focused on the huge gaps which, the report's
authors claim, would be left in Scotland's intelligence-gathering and terrorist
capabilities.

The report claims that Scotland's oil and gas platforms are at risk from
terrorist attack and that the country would need a squadron of about 75 Special
Forces personnel, based in the North East of Scotland. But it warns:
"Recruitment may be challenging and a longer term process than some may wish."

However, the authors identify even more pressing problems with intelligence
gathering and cyber warfare. The report states: "It would seem likely that, in
the early years of independence at least, Scotland would need to come to some
arrangement with the rest of the UK to supply the appropriate level of access to
GCHQ expertise."

Angus Robertson, MP, the SNP defence spokesman, described the report as an
"interesting analysis", which showed that an independent Scotland could afford
its own armed forces. He said: "Taxpayers in Scotland contribute more than £3.3
billion a year to the Ministry of Defence, but less than £2 billion is spent on
defence in Scotland."

But Jim Murphy, the Shadow Defence Secretary, said: "This shows that the SNP's
list of unanswered questions keeps on growing and demonstrates that we are
better off together."

· The construction of the "largest and most powerful warship" ever built for the
Royal Navy took another step forward yesterday as its 11,000-tonne hull section
was prepared for delivery to Rosyth.

The aft section of HMS Queen Elizabeth was moved out of a hall at BAE Systems'
Govan Shipyard, in Glasgow, to be loaded on to a barge for a 600-mile journey to
the Fife dockyard next month.

The 80m (262ft) long and 40m wide section will take five days to travel around
the coast to Rosyth, where it will be joined to other parts of the ship
constructed in Portsmouth. Angus Holt, from BAE Systems, said: "Today marks the
culmination of months of hard work."

The Queen Elizabeth is due to be completed by 2016, with another aircraft
carrier, HMS Prince of Wales, following later. They could be deployed in active
service from 2017.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 16, 2012 Tuesday 10:21 PM GMT

US government 'not satisfied' with Pakistan's approach to Mumbai terror attack

BYLINE: KIRAN TARE

SECTION: INDIA

LENGTH: 295 words


The US has expressed its displeasure over the Pakistan government's handling of
the 26/11 Mumbai attack case.

"The Pakistan government has not taken enough action," Geoffrey Pyatt, US
principal deputy assistant secretary for south and central Asian affairs, said.

"We are working in a way that LeT (Lashkar-e-Tayyeba) could not use the US
financial systems. The work has not yet finished but the Pakistan government has
not taken enough action as per our expectations," Pyatt said.

However, he added that he found the approach of Pakistani officials favourable.
He described the conversation between Union home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde
and his Pakistani counterpart Rehman Malik at Male during SAARC Interior
Ministers' meeting as important.

"US relations with India and Pakistan are independent of each other. There are
evolutions in India and Pakistan in economic ways. It was impressive to see
Pakistan's commitment for the status of Most Favoured Nation to India. Another
attack would be a setback to this process," he said.

Pyatt stated categorically that the US would not hand over David Coleman
Headley, a US citizen and one of the key conspirators of the 26/11 attack, to
India.

"There is president-level cooperation between the US and India on this issue. We
are working out everything possible to prevent another attack. We allow the
Indian authorities to question Headley. Nothing more can be done," he said.

Pyatt described Prime Minister Manmohan Singh as a champion of India's nuclear
deal with the US.

"He is a great figure in India's history. India is changing fast. The change is
quite remarkable. The investment has grown by 10 times. India's dynamism is good
for us. There is a strong commitment to the relationships in both directions,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 16, 2012 Tuesday 9:49 PM GMT

'No, Hillary, the buck DOES stop at the White House': Republican party chairman
rebuffs Clinton's attempt to take the fall for Obama on Benghazi terror attacks

BYLINE: TOBY HARNDEN IN HEMPSTEAD, NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 542 words


Republicans are showing no sign of letting up on President Barack Obama over the
death of four U.S. officials in Benghazi despite Hillary Clinton, his Secretary
of State, taking 'responsibility' for the debacle.Reince Priebus, chairman of
the Republican National Committee, blasted Obama and Clinton after her
intervention, which threw the president a potential lifeline in tonight's second
presidential debate against Mitt Romney.Clinton said on Monday in Lima, Peru,
that security at all of America's diplomatic missions abroad is her job, not
that of the White House. It was seen as an attempt to protect the White House
and particularly Joe Biden who said during last week's TV debate against Paul
Ryan that neither he nor the President were aware of demands for extra security
at the U.S. consulate in Benghazi before ambassador Chris Stevens and three
other Americans were killed.'I take responsibility,' she told CNN. "I'm in
charge of the State Department's 60,000-plus people all over the world, 275
posts. The president and the vice president wouldn't be knowledgeable about
specific decisions that are made by security professionals. They're the ones who
weigh all of the threats and the risks and the needs and make a considered
decision.'

Priebus told MSNBC: 'The buck stops at the White House. That's what Hillary
Clinton said back in 2008. She's saying something differently today. 'But I
think it's a matter of leadership, I think it's a matter of straight answers.
Look, terrible things can happen and that's not necessarily obviously a reason
to say that somebody isn't fit to lead. But I think its's a matter of how do you
ask once something terrible happens and how honest are you with the American
people. 'I just get the feeling that this president hasn't been straight with
the American people or certainly the White House hasn't been straight with the
American people. 'Or they've been so sloppy in getting the right answers and
communicating the correct answers to the American people that it brings the
question to the table: has your leadership in the White House produced the kind
of results that you promised this country you would produce in northern Africa
and the Middle East. And it hasn't. He added: 'I think it's a 3 a.m.
call,'referring to the famous Clinton ad aimed against Obama in 2008 which
featured a sleeping child and a persistently ringing phone. It suggested that
Obama didn't have the experience and mettle to protect Americans.

Speaking before Priebus, Obama campaign aide Robert Gibbs invoked the father of
Ambassador Chris Stevens, one of the four killed, who argued at the weekend that
the attacks should not be politicised.'This really shouldn't be something that,
as Ambassador Stevens's dad said, becomes a big political issue,' Gibbs said.
'If you look at what Mitt Romney has done since the moment this happened was
play politics with it.'On Fox News's "Fox & Friends," Representative Jason
Chaffetz, a key Romney ally, said that Clinton's acceptance of responsibility
still left unanswered questions.'At least somebody's taking some responsibility
here. What's inexcusable is that it got to this point. I still think they don't
have their story straight about was this a video, was this not a video?'

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 17, 2012 Wednesday

Kenyan "terror" attack death toll rises to three

LENGTH: 260 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati entitled "Two terror suspects, police officer
killed in grenade attack" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper
The Standard website on 17 October

Two terror suspects and a police officer were killed in a grenade attack during
a raid in Likoni area, Mombasa.

Two terror suspects died on the spot while nine police officers were wounded.
One of the injured officers died while undergoing treatment in hospital.

Coast police boss Aggrey Adoli said the constable of police attached to
[paramilitary] General Service Unit.

Adoli said they were following intelligence that some terror suspects were
hiding in the area and wanted to arrest them when a grenade was hurled at them
injuring the four on Wednesday [17 October] morning.

He said a pistol, an AK47 rifle, two grenades and 15 bullets were recovered from
the house where the two had been killed.

He added police had on Tuesday arrested a suspect in Changamwe area and he led
them to a house where his accomplice was hiding.

"On reaching at the house, those inside refused to open and instead hurled a
grenade at the officers killing his accomplice and injured our officers. He was
later killed in a shoot-out," said Adoli.

Police were still searching houses in the area of the incident looking for more
weapons and suspects

Adoli says they intend to make more arrests and recoveries as they step up war
on terrorism.

The raid was conducted by General Service Unit personnel and their Anti-Terror
Police Unit counterparts.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 17 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                           October 17, 2012 Wednesday

Mum's terror as attacker's jail term is cut

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 367  words


Alana Lewis

THE mother of a Burry Port man left in a coma by a vicious assault has told of
her terror at learning his attacker's sentence had been reduced.

Dad-of-two Danny Tibbles, 27, suffered severe head injuries and permanent brain
damage after being kicked repeatedly in the head and stamped on by two men in
October 2010.

Two years on, Joseph Edward Bailey, 32, of Danybanc in Felinfoel, Llanelli, has
successfully appealed against an indefinite jail term - despite top judges
agreeing he was "dangerous".

Lady Justice Hallett, Mr Justice Hedley and Mr Justice Calvert-Smith, sitting at
London's Criminal Appeal Court on Wednesday, replaced the sentence with a
five-year jail term, plus a five-year extended licence period.

This means he will be automatically freed after serving two-and-a-half years,
before serving ten years on licence in the community - to the horror of Danny's
mother Susan.

"I'm terrified of him coming out," she said.

"I'm terrified he might come at me to get Danny, and I have told the police how
scared I am. Two-and-a-half years is not enough after what he did."

The court heard that Mr Tibbles suffered swelling to the brain after the attack,
which was committed while Bailey and his co-accused were "fired up on drink and
drugs".

Bailey's lawyers argued the judge had not realised that, having found Bailey to
be a "dangerous" offender, he could have imposed an extended sentence rather
than the last resort option of indefinite imprisonment.

Mr Justice Calvert-Smith agreed, adding that Bailey was "dangerous, but only in
a limited combination of circumstances, when there   is a perceived threat to
himself or his family and he is under the influence of drink or drugs".

But Mrs Tibbles said she thought it "wasn't fair" to take this view.

"He is obviously a dangerous bloke - he jumped on my son's head," she added.

Danny, now living with his sister, received emergency hospital treatment and
spent several weeks in an induced coma as a result of his head injuries.

And Mrs Tibbles said he would never be the same.

"He is doing a lot better now, but he will be permanently damaged because of
this," she said. "He used to love playing darts and pool, but he can't even do
that anymore."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2012 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Post

                           October 17, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;

Car beep led to axe attack;
Terror ordeal at hands of drunk 'startled' by horn

BYLINE: ELWYN ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 343 words


A TERRIFYING axe attack was caused by the accidental beeping of a car horn in
the early hours.

Scott Simmonds was startled by the hoot as he walked home drunk. He got angry
when he heard someone laughing inside the car.

He went home, returned with an axe and brandished it at a teenager, who fled
with two others into a nearby house in Flint as Simmonds brought the axe down on
the door.

One of the teenage girls in the house was so terrified that she tried to climb
out of the kitchen window at the back - and lost one of her nails in the
process.

Mold Crown Court heard how he then went on to smash the windows of two cars
parked outside the property in Queen's Avenue, Flint - one of them with a
terrified girl inside. She was showered with glass, prosecuting barrister Elen
Owen explained.

Witnesses later told police that the car horn sounding had been a complete
accident and was not directed at Simmonds in any way.

It turned out that Simmonds had not long been released from custody for a
similar incident when he argued with another young man while drunk and attacked
his front door with an axe.

Simmonds, 23, of Woodfield Avenue, Flint, admitted affray, possessing the axe as
an offensive weapon, and two charges of criminal damage on August 2. He was
jailed for 15 months.

Judge Rhys Rowlands said that it was "all over something and nothing".

He armed himself with an axe, threatened one young man with it and swung it at
him, and when he and two young ladies ran inside he damaged both the front and
back doors with the axe before turning his attention to the cars outside.

The judge added: "You possessed an axe in very dangerous circumstances, you were
very drunk and used it to threaten people and to cause damage.

"There is no possible excuse for anyone to take an axe out into the street. When
drink is involved there is no way of knowing what harm will be caused."

John Philpotts, defending, said that his client knew it had to be custody.

It was very little consolation to the victims but he was remorseful and knew
that drink was the root of his problems.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2012 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    October 17, 2012 Wednesday 11:09 PM GMT

Man, 21, 'attempts to blow up Federal Reserve in New York with 1,000lbs car bomb
in terrorist attack after leaving video pledge to destroy America'

BYLINE: BETH STEBNER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1785 words



     ·    Quazi Nafis, 21, arrested this morning in elaborate FBI sting
     ·    Nafis supplied with fake 1,000-pound bomb and parked it in front of
          Federal Reserve Bank in lower Manhattan this morning
     ·    Tried repeatedly to detonate 'bomb' with cell phone but failed
     ·    FBI and NYPD said that general public was never in any danger


Scroll down to hear from area workers

A terror plot to blow up the Federal Reserve Bank in lower Manhattan with a
remotely-detonated 1,000-pound car bomb was foiled today in a dramatic FBI
sting.

In a major security operation only a few blocks from the World Trade Center,
officers arrested a 21-year-old Bangladeshi man who had been supplied with fake
explosives by an undercover agent.

It emerged this afternoon that the suspect - Quazi Mohammad Rezwanul Ahsan Nafis
- had left a chilling video message in which he pledged to 'destroy America.'

According to the FBI complaint, the Jamaica, Queens resident was acting on
behalf of al-Qaeda, and had come to the United States with jihadist intentions.

The elaborate sting represents a major coup for the FBI, and is likely to
heighten tension in a city haunted by the 9/11 attacks 11 years ago.

According to a release from the FBI, Nafis believed that he was going to
detonate a 1,000 in front of the Federal Reserve Building, located on Liberty
Street, and had recorded a video message prior to the attack saying that he
intended to deal a major blow to the American economy.

After receiving the false bomb, he drove with the FBI agent from a warehouse
outside the city to the Federal Reserve building. The two parked the van in
front of the bank and walked to the nearby Millennium Hotel, according to WABC.

At the hotel, he recorded a video where he said: 'We will not stop until we
attain victory or martyrdom.'

VIDEO: NYC claims NO FEAR over latest bomb scheme:

Nafis appeared in federal court in Brooklyn earlier today to face charges of
attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction and attempting to provide
material support to al-Qaida.

Wearing a brown T-shirt and black jeans, he was ordered held without bail and
did not enter a plea. His defense attorney had no comment outside court.

The defendant 'reported having connections' to al-Qaida, prosecutors said. But
there was no allegation that he received training or direction from the
terrorist group.

He told the undercover FBI agent during the drive to the Federal Reserve that
his jihadist views had been shaped by al-Qaeda leader Anwar al-Awlaki.

According to the criminal complaint, Nafis said: 'All I had in my mind are how
to destroy America... I came up to this conclusion that targeting America's
economy is most efficient way to draw the path of obliteration of America as
well as the path of establishment of Khilapha.'

He continued, according to the complaint: 'I decided to attack the Federal
Reserve bank of New York which is by far the largest (by assets),most active (by
volume) and most influential of the 12 regional Federal Reserve Banks. New York
Federal Reserve Bank implements monetary policy, supervises and regulates
financial institutions and helps maintain the nation's payment systems.'

Prosecutors say Nafis traveled to the U.S. in January to carry out an attack.

In July, he contacted a confidential informant, telling him he wanted to form a
terror cell, the criminal complaint said.

In further conversations, authorities said Nafis proposed several spots for his
attack, including the New York Stock Exchange - and that in a written letter
taking responsibility for the Federal Reserve job he was about to carry out, he
said he wanted to 'destroy America.'

Other communications took place through Facebook, the complaint said.

Federal prosecutors said that Nafis was closely monitored by the FBI in New York
and members of the Joint Terrorism Task Force, as well as the NYPD, and the
public was never in danger.

The building is only blocks away from ground zero and the nearly-complete One
World Trade Center construction, an area full of NYPD officers and other law
enforcement officials.

According to  NBC New York, the man was arrested earlier today, and lives in
Queens.

Authorities said that the public was never at risk of being in danger, as the
operation was carefully monitored by both the FBI and the NYPD.

NYPD Commissioner Ray Kelly praised his police force, saying in a statement,
'Al-Qaeda operatives and those they have inspired have tried time and again to
make New York City their killing field.

'We are up to 15 plots and counting since 9/11, with the Federal Reserve now
added to a list of iconic targets that previously included the Brooklyn Bridge,
the New York Stock Exchange, and Citicorp Center.

He said that while it may be easy to get complacent, more than 1,000 NYPD
officers are assigned to counterterrorism duties daily.

He concluded: 'I want to commend the NYPD detectives and FBI agents of the Joint
Terrorism Task Force for the work they did in the case and U.S. Attorney Lynch
and her dedicated team in prosecuting it.'

When he met this morning with the undercover FBI agent, Nafis mentioned that he
had a 'Plan B' should his van bombing plot fail. He allegedly told the agent
that he was also considering a suicide attack.

He faces charges of attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction in addition
to attempting to provide material support to al Qaeda.

According to the FBI release, Nafis believed that he was going to detonate a
1,000 pound bomb in front of the Federal Reserve Building, located on Liberty
Street.

The bank, located at 33 Liberty St, is one of 12 branches around the country
that, along with the Board of Governors in Washington, make up the Federal
Reserve System that serves as the central bank of the United States. It sets
interest rates.

The Bangladeshi native reported having overseas connections to al-Qaida, and
traveled to the U.S. in January to carry out an attack, according to a complaint
filed in federal court in Brooklyn.

He was trying to recruit people, but one was a secret FBI source, and Nafis was
closely monitored as he tried to act out his plot.

Nafis was awaiting a federal court hearing later Wednesday where he is facing a
charge of attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction and attempting to
provide material support for al-Qaeda.

Nafis was living in Queens. It's not clear if he had a lawyer yet.

LIVING IN THE SHADOW OF FEAR: NEW YORK'S CLOSE CALLS FOLLOWING SEPTEMBER 11
ATTACKS

Since the devastating attacks of September 11, which took the lives on nearly
3,000 people and left a smouldering pit in the heart of New York City, residents
of the Big Apple have been living in fear of the next major act of terror.

While the New York City Police Department and federal officials so far have been
successful at foiling terror plots, it has done little to deter potential
Jihadists from seeking new opportunities to wreak havoc on American soil.

Over the past 11 years, New York City has been targeted no fewer than nine
times. In 2004, seven members of a terrorist cell led by Muslim extremist Dhiren
Barot were arrested for plotting to attack the New York Stock Exchange and other
financial institutions in New York, Washington, DC, and Newark, New Jersey.

They were later accused of planning attacks in England. The plots included a
'memorable black day of terror' that would have included detonating a dirty
bomb.

That same year, James Elshafay and Shahawar Matin Siraj, both reportedly
self-radicalized, were arrested for plotting to bomb a subway station near
Madison Square Garden in New York City before the Republican National
Convention.

An undercover detective from the NYPD's Intelligence Division infiltrated the
group, providing information to authorities, and later testified against
Elshafay and Siraj.

Just two years later, in July of 2006, FBI agents monitoring online chat rooms
discovered a plot to attack underground train tunnels connecting New York City
and New Jersey. Eight suspects, including Assem Hammoud, an al-Qaeda supporter
living in Lebanon, were arrested in the plot.

In 2007, four men conspired to blow up aviation fuel tanks and pipelines at the
John F. Kennedy International Airport in hopes of causing 'greater destruction
than in the September 11 attacks.' Authorities stated that the attack 'could
have caused significant financial and psychological damage, but not major loss
of life.'

Besides transportation hubs and major city landmarks, places of worship also
proved popular targets. In 2009, police announced the arrest of James Cromitie,
David Williams, Onta Williams, and Laguerre Payen for plotting to blow up New
York-area synagogues and shoot down planes at a nearby Air National Guard Base.

The four had attempted to gain access to Stinger missiles and were caught in the
act of placing bombs in the buildings and in a car.

One of the most publicized terror plots came just a few months later when
authorities arrested  Najibullah Zazi, a 24-year-old Afghan, for purchasing
large quantities of chemicals used to make a TATP bomb, which he then planned to
set off  on the New York City subway. It has since been found that the plot was
directed by senior al-Qaeda leadership in Pakistan.

At least three other individuals have since been arrested on allegations of
conspiring to carry out the attack with Zazi. One of them, New York religious
leader Ahmad Afzali, has pled guilty to charges of lying to federal agents about
informing Zazi that he was being investigated by authorities.

But perhaps the closest call came in May of 2010, when Faisal Shahzad, a
30-year-old naturalized U.S. citizen and Pakistan native, drove a Pathfinder
packed with explosives and incendiary devices into Times Square and tried to
detonate it. Luckily, the bomb fizzled and passersby quickly alerted the police,
who disarmed the device.

Just two days later, Shahzad was arrested at JFK Airport while trying to flee
the country aboard an Emirates Airways flight to Dubai.

As recently as last May, Ahmed Ferhani, of Algeria, and Moroccan-born Mohamed
Mamdouh, a U.S. citizen, were arrested after attempting to purchase a hand
grenade, guns, and ammunition to attack a Manhattan synagogue while being
disguised as Orthodox Jews. The pair also allegedly planned to target the Empire
State Building.

The most recent terror plot was uncovered last November when Jose Pimentel, a
naturalized U.S. citizen from the Dominican Republic, was arrested on charges of
planning to use pipe bombs to attack targets throughout New York City, including
police stations, post offices, and U.S. soldiers.

by SNEJANA FARBEROV

Source: Heritage Foundation

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    October 17, 2012 Wednesday 10:00 PM GMT

Shocking video 'shows U.S. security contractors drunk and high in Afghanistan
while on $47m contract to protect American  lives against terror attacks'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1021 words



     ·    Whistle blowers secretly taped key personnel injecting drugs, chugging
          vodka and wrestling each other
     ·    Said there is 'no way' staff would have been able to protect American
          lives from terrorist attack
     ·    The U.S. Army has launched a criminal investigation into the
          Virginia-based company
     ·    Use of alcohol or illegal drugs by U.S. contractors in Afghanistan is
          prohibited by the military, with the manual describing a
          'zero-tolerance' policy


Shocking video allegedly showing U.S. Security contractors drunk, stoned and
engaging in outlandish behavior while they were in Afghanistan protecting
American lives has been leaked by two whistle blowers.

The footage is believed to have been recorded earlier this year at a Jorge
Scientific operations center in Kabul. It appears to show key personnel drunk or
high on drugs, chugging drinks, semi-naked wrestling and injecting drugs.

The alleged behavior went undetected by U.S. military officials and put American
lives at risk. The whistle blowers revealed that if a terrorist attack had been
made at this time, then employees would have been too 'out of it' to respond.

Scroll down for video

Two former employees, John Melson and Kenny Smith, gave the video to ABCand say
it documents a number of allegations they have made in a lawsuit against Jorge
Scientific.

'It was going against everything that we were trying to do over there. It was
like a frat house for adults. Some of them to the point where they were passing
out, there's firearms laying around, some of them still carrying the firearms on
them'                         John Melson

The U.S. Army has now launched a criminal investigation into the Virginia-based
company, who has won almost $1 billion in U.S. government contracts.

They said they were unaware of both the video and the allegations until last
month.

Whistle blowers Melson and Smith worked as armed security officers for three and
five months respectively, in Kabul as part of a $47 million contract Jorge
Scientific had under the U.S. Legacy Program to train the Afghan National Police
in counter-insurgency efforts.

They said they quit out of sheer disgust for the behavior, because of the way
they were treated by their colleagues, who would bully them for not joining in
the party, and out of concern their own safety was being compromised by the
behavior.

Melson, a National Guard sergeant who served in uniform in Iraq and Afghanistan
before working for Jorge Scientific, told ABC: 'It was going against everything
that we were trying to do over there. It was like a frat house for adults.

'Some of them to the point where they were passing out, there's firearms laying
around, some of them still carrying the firearms on them.'

The company says it has taken 'decisive action to correct the unacceptable
behavior of a limited number of employees' and that several of them seen on the
video are no longer employed by Jorge Scientific.

In a short clip of the video provided to ABC, the security manager for the
company can be seen chugging a glass of vodka and staggering around before
starting a wrestling match with another employee.

Several bottles of alcohol can be seen sitting on a table in the background.

The use of alcohol or illegal drugs by U.S. contractors in Afghanistan is
prohibited by the military, with the manual describing a 'zero-tolerance' as
personnel must be on alert 24/7 for possible terrorist attacks.

The video then switches to the company's medical officer after he allegedly
injected himself with Ketamine. The man stares at the camera wide and glassy
eyed, not being able to respond when asked a question.

When asked about the video, medical officer Kevin Carlson admitted to ABC that
he frequently injected himself with narcotics just to 'get away' because the
place was such a 'nightmare'.

Though he is no longer employed with them, he revealed there was 'massive drug
and alcohol abuse' at that Jorge Scientific facility, involving executives,
armed security personnel and himself.

The company's senior on-site executive Chris Sullivan was often the ringleader
behind the parties and would try to pressure others into taking part, the suit
alleges.

He would also allegedly hold blazing bonfires in the outdoor patio despite the
fact the location was supposed to be covert.

Employees would often throw live ammunition rounds and fire extinguishers into
the flames and watch as they exploded, often sounding like a real bomb
explosion, the whistle blowers claim.

Melson said: 'There was nothing covert with bringing all that added attention.
Afghanistan is not the time or the place to be carrying on like that.'

Sullivan does not work with Jorge Scientific any more and refused to comment on
the allegations.

In a statement to ABC News, Colonel Tom Collins, a U.S. Army spokesperson for
the International Security Assistance Force, said: 'Clearly, behavior such as
that described by ABC News is not indicative of the outstanding work that
thousands of contractors and service members perform every day in Afghanistan.

'We are confident that our personnel conduct themselves in ways that makes our
nation proud and we should not allow the actions of a few, if determined to be
true, to detract from that fact.'

Jorge is now conducting their own investigation but said they made management
changes to the operation in Afghanistan before the lawsuit was filed.

Their statement said: 'These individuals are seeking monetary damages by
mis-characterizing these actions as "fraud".

'The company remains confident that the personal misconduct did not impact the
company's contract performance.'

If the allegations turn out to be true, it may stoke U.S.-Afghan relations even
further and could add to rage over perceived U.S. disrespect for local values.

'This arrogant image that Americans have worldwide, this was feeding right into
it,' said Melson.

The full video will be broadcast in a report this evening on ABC World News with
Diane Sawyer and Nightline.

Unfortunately your browser does not support IFrames.

Watch More News Videos at ABC | 2012 Presidential Election

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 17, 2012 Wednesday 5:49 PM GMT

Romney was RIGHT! Moderator Candy Crowley admits Mitt was correct to attack
Obama over Libya terror killings... just hours after she sparked fury by siding
with President during crunch debate

BYLINE: LOUISE BOYLE and HUGO GYE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2645 words



     ·    Moderator said Romney was incorrect to question whether the President
          called the killing of the U.S. ambassador in Benghazi an 'act of
          terror'
     ·    Crowley claimed she waded in over Libya to 'bring clarity' to debate
     ·    Later backtracked and admitted Romney 'was right in the main'
     ·    Michelle Obama caught on camera applauding controversial moment
     ·    GOP aides say moderator 'had no business' interrupting the candidate
     ·    Obama spoke for three more minutes than Romney during New York debate


Candy Crowley admitted that Mitt Romney was RIGHT to criticise Barack Obama for
his response to the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi just hours after
she apparently sided with Obama at a crucial point in the high drama
presidential debate on Tuesday night.

The moderator's shock intervention, in which she cut Romney short when he
claimed that Obama had failed to say the attack was the work of terrorists in
the his Rose Garden statement the following day, has been met with outrage.

However, Crowley appeared to backtrack just a few hours after she left the GOP
candidate exposed on the stage in front of millions of viewers. She admitted
that Romney had been 'right in the main' but added that he had 'picked the wrong
word'.

The row intensified when Michelle Obama was caught on camera applauding
Crowley's intervention - despite rules banning members of the audience from
clapping or otherwise showing support during the debate, which has been called
the 'most rancorous' in history.

Scroll down for footage of the electric clash

VIDEO: Crowley sides with Obama during Presidential debate

A storm of protest has followed the incident. Top Romney allies said Crowley
'had no business' intervening in the argument, accusing her of 'getting in the
game' rather than being an impartial observer.

During a question about security at the Benghazi compound, where four American
officials including ambassador Chris Stevens were killed on September 11, Obama
said he was ultimately responsible as commander-in-chief.

Romney then questioned whether or not Obama had called the consulate attack an
'act of terror' in his Rose Garden address the following day.

While Obama cut across Romney - saying 'look at the transcript' - Crowley seemed
to back up the President, telling the Republican governor that Obama did 'call
it an act of terror'.

THAT CRUNCH EXCHANGE IN FULL

ROMNEY: You said in the Rose Garden the day after the attack it was an act of
terror. It was not a spontaneous demonstration.

OBAMA: Please proceed.

ROMNEY: Is that what you're saying?

OBAMA: Please proceed, Governor.

ROMNEY: I want to make sure we get that for the record, because it took the
president 14 days before he called the attack in Benghazi an act of terror.

OBAMA: Get the transcript.

CROWLEY: It - he did in fact, sir.

OBAMA: Can you say that a little louder, Candy?

CROWLEY: He did call it an act of terror. It did as well take two weeks or so
for the whole idea of there being a riot out there about this tape to come out.
You are correct about that.

Her interjection drew applause from the audience, led by Mrs Obama, but angered
political commentators, who accused Crowley of stepping in on behalf of the
President.

Breitbart editor Ben Shapiro called the moderator's reactions a 'disgrace' while
his colleague John Nolte said Crowley 'lied to save Obama'.

Democratic strategist Joe Trippi told Fox News the exchange was 'going to help
the President', adding: 'There's a ref, and the ref just threw the flag.'

Romney advisor Ron Kaufman continued the sporting metaphor as he said: 'At
different times tonight, she in fact got into the game, and she wasn't on the
sidelines.'

And former New Hampshire governor John Sununu said: 'Candy was wrong, and Candy
had no business doing that, and Candy didn't even keep the time right.'

However, top Romney aide Eric Fehrnstrom insisted he was relaxed about the
controversial intervention, saying: 'I don't complain about the refs - I think
Candy was dandy.'

The shock moment came in the middle of what CBS News anchor Scott Pelley
described as 'the most rancorous presidential debate ever', adding: 'We have
never seen anything like that in presidential history. They turned every
question from the audience into an attack on the other.'

Crowley often struggled to control the candidates as they spoke over each other
amid angry exchanges.

The pair bordered on being physically aggressive, coming toe-to-toe and looming
over each other as they gesticulated at each other.

Obama at one point said it was 'offensive' of Romney to suggest that his
administration's response to the Libya consulate attack was politically
motivated.

Obama said: 'The day after the attack, Governor, I stood in the Rose Garden, and
I told the American people and the world that we are going to find out exactly
what happened, that this was an act of terror.'

Romney then questioned the veracity of Obama's remarks. He said: 'I want to make
sure we get that for the record, because it took the president 14 days before he
called the attack in Benghazi an act of terror.'

While Romney continued to question Obama's claims, Crowley interjected: 'He
[Obama] did in fact, sir.'

Obama then said: 'Can you say that a little louder, Candy?' to laughter and
applause from the audience.

Then rather belatedly, Crowley told Romney: 'He did call it an act of terror. It
did as well take - it did as well take two weeks or so for the whole idea of
there being a riot out there about this tape to come out. You are correct about
that.'

The exchange was the only point during the debate when Crowley sought to correct
one of the candidates on a point of fact.

A number of audience members could clearly be heard applauding the line. Nearly
all the applause came from the higher levels of the auditorium, not from the
debate participants.

But one person within the inner circle did participate in the illicit ovation -
Mrs Obama was caught on camera clapping during the heated back-and-forth.

The First Lady was given three tickets to the debate and allowed to sit among
the participants who were involved with questioning the candidates.

YOU DECIDE: TRANSCRIPT OF OBAMA'S ROSE GARDEN SPEECH

Last night's second presidential debate reignited the controversy over Obama's
words following the September 11 attack on the U.S. consulate in Libya.

The following day, he made this speech from the White House Rose Garden:

'Of course, yesterday was already a painful day for our nation as we marked the
solemn memory of the 9/11 attacks. We mourned with the families who were lost on
that day. I visited the graves of troops who made the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq
and Afghanistan at the hallowed grounds of Arlington Cemetery, and had the
opportunity to say thank you and visit some of our wounded warriors at Walter
Reed.

'And then last night, we learned the news of this attack in Benghazi.

'As Americans, let us never, ever forget that our freedom is only sustained
because there are people who are willing to fight for it, to stand up for it,
and in some cases, lay down their lives for it. Our country is only as strong as
the character of our people and the service of those both civilian and military
who represent us around the globe.

'No acts of terror will ever shake the resolve of this great nation, alter that
character, or eclipse the light of the values that we stand for.

'Today we mourn four more Americans who represent the very best of the United
States of America. We will not waver in our commitment to see that justice is
done for this terrible act.  And make no mistake, justice will be done.'

The moderator later appeared to backtrack on her own comments, saying 'it was
just the natural thing to come out of me' but admitting that the substance of
Romney's assertion was correct.

'He was right in the main, I just think he picked the wrong word,' she said
during a post-debate appearance on CNN.

The audience member who asked the question which touched off the controversy
said he did not feel Obama had answered his query.

'I really didn't think he totally answered the question satisfactorily as far as
I was concerned,' Kerry Ladka told the Washington Post.

Ladka, 61, asked who 'denied enhanced security' to the Benghazi consulate - but
the President avoided the issue, instead offering a tribute to U.S. diplomats
and an attack on his opponent.

After the debate, Obama approached Ladka for a two-minute conversation in which
he said he could not answer the question because 'releasing the individual names
of anyone in the State Department would really put them at risk'.

The undecided voter told the Post, 'I appreciate his private answer more than
his public answer' - though his high regard for Romney's business record means
he has still not made up his mind how to vote.

Another questioner, Jeremy Epstein, did decide whom to vote for during last
night's debate - but has refused to say which candidate he now supports.

The 20-year-old student paid tribute to both participants, saying: 'Mitt
Romney's first answer - I felt like he was staring into my soul, just right
through me, when he was asking me the question.

'And then when the President came up, I felt like he, you know he started up by
saying my future's bright - I feel like they were both sincere.'

Epstein spoke to the two candidates after the debate - and argued with Obama
over whether he would beat him in a one-on-one game of basketball.

During his Rose Garden address on September 12, the day following the attack in
Benghazi, Obama said: 'No acts of terror will ever shake the resolve of this
great nation, alter that character or eclipse the light of the values that we
stand for.'

While he did therefore establish a link between the raid and 'terror' as a
whole, he did not explicitly say that he believed it to have been conducted by
terrorists.

And over the next few days, the President repeatedly linked the attack to
protests against a U.S.-made YouTube video mocking the Prophet Muhammad which
were sweeping the Muslim world at the time.

The attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi was a talking point again during
Vice President Joe Biden's debate last week.

Biden claimed in the debate with Republican VP nominee Paul Ryan that 'we
weren't told' about requests for extra security at the consulate.

On Monday, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was forced to come to his defence.

Pushing back against Republican criticism of the Obama administration for its
handling of the situation, Clinton said that security at all of America's
diplomatic missions abroad is her job, not that of the White House.

She said: 'I take responsibility... The President and the Vice President
wouldn't be knowledgeable about specific decisions that are made by security
professionals.'

The Libya question was one moment when Crowley struggled to rein in the debate
on Tuesday night.

She failed to shut down both Obama and Romney when they ran over allocated times
and attacked each other in angry exchanges.

In her opening statement at the town hall debate in New York, Ms Crowley said:
'Because I am the optimistic sort, I'm sure the candidates will oblige by
keeping their answers concise and on point'.

It was revealed from  CNN timekeeping on the debate, that Obama had spoke for
three extra minutes

The President got 44:04 minutes of speaking time, while Romney got 40:50.

TIMELINE OF ADMINISTRATION'S SHIFTING POSITION ON DEADLY ATTACK

September 11: Ambassador Chris Stevens and three others are killed in an attack
on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi.

September 12: Barack Obama makes a statement saying, 'No acts of terror will
ever shake the resolve of this great nation,' but does not explicitly label the
raid a terrorist attack.

September 13: White House press secretary Jay Carney blames the assault on a
U.S.-made YouTube video mocking the Prophet Muhammad.

September 16: Susan Rice, American ambassador to the UN, says she believes the
attack 'began as a spontaneous, not premeditated, response' to protests over the
video.

September 20: Carney says, 'It is self-evident that what happened in Benghazi
was a terrorist attack.'

September 25: Obama declines to label the attack as terrorism during an
appearance on The View.

October 9: State Department officials insist they never linked the attack to the
video protests.

Obama and Romney had both expressed concern over Crowley's role ahead of the
debate because she was robust in saying beforehand that she would not shirk from
guiding the conversation.

Lawyers for both Democratic and Republican campaigns complained about comments
the CNN journalist made ahead of the town hall-style debate at Hofstra
University in Hempstead, New York tonight.

Her job was to referee the two presidential candidates as they answered
questions from online viewers and members of the audience.

But in an interview, she indicated that she planned to take a more aggressive
stance than the last moderator Jim Lehrer who was roundly criticized for a
listless performance and letting Obama and Romney walk all over him.

Where PBS veteran Lehrer said his job was to stay out of the way, Crowley
planned a different set of tactics.

BARACK OBAMA IN QUOTES

On the budget:

'Governor Romney's allies in Congress have held the 98 per cent hostage because
they want tax breaks for the top 2 per cent.'

On Romney's economic plan:

'Governor Romney doesn't have a five-point plan, he's got a one-point plan. To
make sure that the folks at the top play by a separate set of rules.'

On Romney's investments in China:

'Governor, you are the last person who is going to get tough on China.'

On his pension:

'I don't look at my pension, it's not as big as yours, so it doesn't take as
long.'

On being defended by the moderator:

'Can you say that a little louder, Candy?'

MITT ROMNEY IN QUOTES

On his opponent:

'Thank you, Mr President, for being a part of this debate.'

On the deficit:

'I know what it takes to balance budgets. I've done it my entire life.'

On interruption:

'You get your chance in a moment, I'm still speaking.'

On Obama's response to the Libya attack:

'The President, the day after it happened, flies to Las Vegas for a political
fundraiser.'

On the President's rhetoric:

'He's great as a speaker, and describing his plans and vision. That's wonderful,
except we have a record to look at.'

The political correspondent said: 'Once the table is kind of set by the town
hall questioner, there is then time for me to say, "Hey, wait a second, what
about x, y, z?"'

Both candidates appeared less than pleased with her remarks - and they weren't
the only ones.

The Commission on Presidential Debates has also complained, saying Crowley's
remarks are vastly different from the memo that was signed by lawyers for both
campaigns.

'In managing the two-minute comment periods, the moderator will not rephrase the
question or open a new topic,' the legal document obtained by  Time says.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    October 17, 2012 Wednesday 11:59 PM GMT

FBI arrests man in New York Federal Reserve bomb plot;
A Bangladeshi man who travelled to New York hoping to commit a terrorist attack
so severe it would halt the US elections was arrested after allegedly trying and
failing to detonate a 1,000lb car bomb outside the Federal Reserve.

BYLINE: By Mark Hughes New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 688 words


Quazi Mohammad Rezwanul Ahsan Nafis, 21, parked a van full of what he thought
were explosives outside the Federal Reserve Bank in downtown Manhattan on
Wednesday morning before recording a martyrdom video and then attempting to
detonate the 'bomb', according to an FBI charge sheet.

But he was arrested by undercover FBI agents whom he had plotted the attack with
via Facebook believing they were al-Qaeda leaders.

Had the plot been enacted it would have been the most devastating terror attack
on US soil since the September 11 attacks 11 years ago. It is the 15th plot
foiled in New York since the World Trade Centre attack, according to the NYPD.

As Nafis appeared in a Brooklyn court last night, the FBI revealed that he had
hoped his attack, so close to next month's Presidential election, would disrupt
the campaign, telling undercover agents: "You know what, this election might
even stop."

Agents told how Nafis had written about how he wanted to "destroy America" and
spoke about the "beloved Sheikh Osama bin Laden" in an article he hoped would be
published after the attack.

Nafis travelled to the US on a student visa in January this year, intent on
waging a "jihad", the FBI alleged. In July he went online in an attempt to
recruit a terror cell and communicated with undercover FBI agents via Facebook.

Over the course of the next three months he plotted an attack. At first he
suggested assassinating a "high ranking US Government official" before turning
his attentions to the country's financial system - first planning to blow up the
New York Stock Exchange before settling on the Federal Reserve.

Initially he planned a suicide-bomb attack but his plans changed after he was
refused permission by the agents posing as 'al Qaeda' operatives to return to
Bangladesh to see his family one last time.

During the meetings, Nafis was keen that his plot be carried out under the name
of al-Qaeda. When told that al-Qaeda would not be affiliated with his attack
should he leave US soil and return temporarily to Bangladesh, he relented and
agreed to stay after being told he could detonate the bomb remotely, with no
suicide element.

During the planning he explained that he hoped the attack would be "very big",
according to a court document. and would put Muslims "one step closer to run the
whole world".

The charging document states that Nafis "understood that the attack he was
planning would result in a large number of civilian casualties... but still
wanted to proceed with the attack."

Nafis is alleged to have told the undercover agents that he planned to attack
the financial district and that his 'Plan B' involved a suicide mission, if his
initial plot was foiled by police.

The FBI provided Nafis with 20 50 pound bags of what he thought were explosives
and he constructed the bomb.

He is also said to have written an article, which he hoped would be published in
the al-Qaeda magazine 'Inspire' explaining his motives.

On Wednesday morning Nafis is alleged to have driven to Manhattan with an
undercover FBI agent and what he believed was a 1,000lb bomb in the van.

After parking the van at the Federal Reserve, close to the former site of the
Twin Towers, he went to a nearby hotel and recorded a statement in which he
addressed the American people, saying: "We will not stop until we attain victory
or martyrdom."

After recording the video he is alleged to have repeatedly called the mobile
phone which acted as the 'bomb's' detonator. When it failed he was arrested. He
faces charges of attempting to use a weapon of mass destruction and attempting
to provide material support to al-Qaeda.

After the arrest the US attorney for the Eatern District of New York said: "As
alleged in the complaint, the defendant came to this country intent on
conducting a terrorist attack on US soil and worked with single-minded
determination to carry out his plan.

"The defendant thought he was striking a blow to the American economy. He
thought he was directing confederates and fellow believers. At every turn, he
was wrong, and his extensive efforts to strike at the heart of the nation's
financial system were foiled."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 17, 2012 Wednesday 8:11 AM GMT

US presidential debate: Mitt Romney slips up on foreign policy;
Republican Mitt Romney was corrected by the debate moderator after he accused
President Barack Obama of taking two weeks to call the killings at the US
embassy in Libya a terrorist attack.

LENGTH: 242 words


Presidential debate: as it happened

In one of the tensest moments of the 90-minute debate, the candidates argued
over whether the White House had described the assault on the consulate in
Libya, that killed four Americans including the US Ambassador Chris Stevens, an
act of terrorism.

"The day after the attack, Governor, I stood in the Rose Garden, and I told the
American people and the world that we are going to find out exactly what
happened, that this was an act of terror. And I also said that we're going to
hunt down those who committed this crime," Mr Obama said.

"You said in the Rose Garden the day after the attack, it was an act of terror?"
he asked the President incredulously.

"Get the transcript," Mr Obama replied tersely.

Appearing to believe he had caught his opponent in an error, he turned to Candy
Crowley, the debate's moderator, and said: "I want to make sure we get that for
the record because it took the president 14 days before he called the attack in
Benghazi an act of terror."

However, Miss Crowley responded that Mr Obama had "did in fact" use the phrase
"act of terror" as he and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton addressed the
nation on the morning after the September 11 attacks.

Her unexpected intervention left Mr Romney looking surprised and prompted a
prohibited outburst of applause from the studio audience.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           October 18, 2012 Thursday

Obama's backtracking on the Benghazi terror attack deceives only himself

BYLINE: John Boltonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 909 words

ABSTRACT

John Bolton: The president's debate claim was false, but more sinister is that
it betrays his inability to perceive the failure of his Libya policy

FULL TEXT

Given the importance of American national security, it was discouraging that the
issue did not come up in 2012's "town hall" presidential debate until the last
30 minutes. Fortunately, however, when moderator Candy Crowley finally got
around to it, the undecided voter's question was very specific, and quite likely
on the minds of many other US citizens. Referring to Washington's denials of
requests for additional security from our embassy in Libya, the questioner
asked:

"Who was it that denied enhanced security and why?"

Short and to the point. And Barack Obama did not answer it.

Instead, following his administration's gameplan on virtually every issue, Obama
attacked Mitt Romney for allegedly politicizing the Benghazi attack. Romney
responded by correctly noting that Obama and his surrogates had spent weeks
erroneously blaming the assassination of four Americans on spontaneous
demonstrators protesting the now-infamous Innocence of Muslims video trailer,
rather than on a pre-planned terrorist attack.

Here, it gets interesting. Obama argued, as his surrogates had several weeks
ago, that he had described the 11 September attack as terrorism the day
afterward. Crowley came to his defense. But Obama's explanation is nothing but
post-facto rationalization, and Crowley is simply, and embarrassingly,
uninformed. Her intervention, which she effectively admitted after the debate
was wrong, was as offensive for its error on the facts as it was for its
partisanship.

We are not simply parsing words. What Obama said on 12 September, and what he
and his aides said in the weeks after, tell volumes about his ideology and
worldview, and why his foreign policy is in a state of collapse. On 12
September, Obama described the tragedy in Benghazi, placing it in the context of
our painful remembrance of the first 11 September attacks. He spoke evocatively
of walking through Arlington Cemetery on 11 September, honoring those who made
the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq and Afghanistan. Only then did Obama say:

"No acts of terror will ever shake the resolve of this great nation ..."

Obviously, Obama was sweeping widely disparate acts of American courage and
character on distant battlefields together in a message of determination, and
well said it was. But it was by no means a declaration that the Benghazi attacks
were undertaken by terrorists. Quite the contrary. Just a few paragraphs before,
Obama had adumbrated the Muhammad video explanation, saying:

"Since our founding, the United States has been a nation that respects all
faiths. We reject all efforts to denigrate the religious beliefs of others. But
there is absolutely no justification for this type of senseless violence."

Romney's central point remains critical and unanswered by Obama.

The real issue is why the administration persisted for weeks in its
interpretation that a spontaneous demonstration over the Muhammad video had
gotten out of hand. This was not a problem of conflicting intelligence estimates
or "the fog of war" as Vice-president Biden, Secretary of State Clinton and a
host of others have said. As the attack was actually underway, security
personnel in Benghazi were on cellphones to the State Department describing the
attack - with no reference, obviously, to a demonstration that had never taken
place.

On 12 September, the State Department's under-secretary for management, briefing
congressional staffers, told them it was a terrorist attack. And a senior
administration counter-terrorism official, testifying before Congress just a
week after the attack, characterized it as terrorism. And yet, the president
spoke before the world at the United Nations thereafter, still linking the
assassinations of four Americans to the video.

Some characterize Obama's line of argument as a cover-up, an accusation the
president theatrically denied during the town hall debate. Willful and repeated
misrepresentation is certainly consistent with a cover-up, but it is also
consistent with a presidential ideology that is so powerful and pervasive that
facts and reality that don't conform to the worldview derived from the ideology
are simply rejected.

Rather than facts changing the worldview, precisely the opposite happens for
Obama. The discordant facts are screened from the president's consciousness and
rejected.

The Obama storyline is that the "war on terror" is over, al-Qaida has been
defeated, and Gaddafi's overthrow and the Arab Spring are bringing democracy to
Libya. This worldview is also, coincidentally of course, very helpful to the
president politically. In fact, however, the reality is quite different from
Obama's ideology on all three of these points, as tragically demonstrated in
Benghazi on 11 September, notwithstanding the president's stubborn unwillingness
to acknowledge it.

Thus, Tuesday's debate hardly constitutes a rejection of the Romney assessment,
which is solidly grounded in facts, and is being constantly reinforced as new
facts come to light. Candy Crowley and her media colleagues may have taken a
momentary delight in coming to Obama's side in the debate, but the American
people will ultimately not be deceived. The citizen questioner in Long Island
has a question that remains unanswered, and there are many more like it. And
there are still three weeks until the election.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           October 18, 2012 Thursday

Emergency services training for threat of terrorist attack

BYLINE: Alan Travisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 480 words

ABSTRACT

Security minister defends government's communications data bill and warns that
al-Qaida threat has not diminished

FULL TEXT

Britain's emergency services are being trained to tackle a marauding terrorist
gun attack in the aftermath of the recent attacks in Toulouse and Norway, the
security minister, James Brokenshire, is to disclose on Thursday.

In a speech to the Royal United Services Institute in London, the security
minister says that the home secretary has ordered a new programme of work to
improve the way the emergency services respond to the changing tactics of
terrorists.

He says that the experiences in Toulouse, where three children and a rabbi were
murdered in an shooting attack on a Jewish school in March, and the Oslo
bombings and Utøya shootings in which 77 people died last year demonstrated the
impact that a lone individual can have if sufficiently motivated.

"The overall aim is to ensure that the blue light services are trained and
exercised to work together as effectively as possible in response to fast-moving
terrorist scenarios, so that as many lives as possible can be saved," he says.

"The programme will build upon the work done to date on the joint emergency
response to specific risks, including a marauding terrorist firearms attack and
incidents involving chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear substances.
Staying ahead of the threat means ensuring our emergency response is capable of
dealing with the threat in whatever form it takes," says Brokenshire.

The Home Office minister is also to reflect security service concerns about
northern Mali joining the list of places that lack any effective government such
as Somalia, Afghanistan and Yemen and where terrorism now flourishes.

He said that since a coup earlier this year, some Tuareg groups have forged
closer alliances with al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb, and a "collective failure
to act" over northern Mali "might well become manifest in attacks closer to
home," warns Brokenshire.

The security minister confirms that the Home Office will implement a "no-fly
list" under which airlines will be denied authority to carry foreign nationals
who pose a terrorist threat on flights to Britain.

He is also to defend the government's plans to track email and mobile phone use
in the communications data bill arguing that terrorists are using internet
messaging, phone services and even video games to communicate. The security
minister says that the delivery of a safe and secure Olympic Games does not mean
that the threat from al-Qaida has disappeared.

"Those who want to do us serious harm are waiting for the moment we take our eye
off the ball. The number of terrorism arrests rose from 126 in 2010/11 to 206 in
2011/12. Two hundred and eighty three persons have been convicted of a
terrorism-related offence since 11 September 2000. The threat remains very
real," says Brokenshire.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               Lincolnshire Echo

                           October 18, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Knifeman faces jail after 7-year terror campaign;
Attacker warned ex-girlfriend 'I'm going to kill you'

BYLINE: court reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 556 words


Paul Henry carried out a campaign of fear against his former girlfriend for
years before trying to kill her hours after he walked free from court. Terrified
Claire Boswell had made 40 complaints to police about Henry since 2005.

He ended up in magistrates' court in breach of an order, preventing him from
harassing her, in September last year.

He had climbed on to her roof and threatened to kill her. He was given an
eight-week prison sentence but this was suspended. Once free of the court room
in Lincoln, he called Miss Boswell, 44, telling her "I'm out".

While most people in Miss Boswell's street would have been settling down for the
evening, Henry had taken the train to Gainsborough. Once there, he broke into
her home in Glentham Road and stabbed her. Henry now faces being jailed
indefinitely after a jury at Lincoln Crown Court found him guilty of attempting
to murder Miss Boswell by an 11-1 majority verdict.

The jury had heard how Henry harassed her for years before it escalated into an
attempt to kill her.

The ordeal Miss Boswell suffered, on September 15 last year, began when Henry
used a plant pot to break into her home. Robert Underwood said Henry ran
upstairs after Miss Boswell, swearing and shouting: "I'm going to kill you." She
retreated into her daughter's bedroom but Henry clambered over the bed with a
knife taken from her kitchen.

"He went into the bedroom where Claire Boswell was. She was pressing an alarm
button that the authorities had provided for her on an earlier occasion," said
Mr Underwood.

Miss Boswell then dialled 999 and was heard shouting during the call: "Help! Get
out!" "Mr Henry was simply not deterred," said Mr Underwood. He thrust the knife
to the right side of her chest.

When interviewed by police, he admitted breaking into her house and getting a
knife from her kitchen, but said he just intended to talk to her.

The wound penetrated her breast tissue and injured her liver, causing her
life-threatening injuries.

She suffered a pierced liver and was taken to Lincoln Hospital, then transferred
to Queen's Medical Centre in Nottingham where she remained for five days.

Adjourning sentence until November, Judge Michael Heath told Henry he needed a
report from the probation service to help consider the level of danger he posed.

Judge Heath warned Henry: "I am considering passing an indeterminate sentence
for public protection."

Henry had told police: "I didn't want to kill her or 'owt like that."

The jury were told Henry had a string of previous convictions for violence,
including grievous bodily harm, assault and using a knife to cut the fingers of
a male relative of his then girlfriend.

Henry, formerly of Lea Place, Gainsborough, was remanded into custody and will
be sentenced on November 9.

Cooked cat in microwave Paul Henry was jailed in January for six months after he
cooked a friend's cat to death in a microwave.

The cat's owner Andrew Parsons, 38, had left Henry in his apartment, also in
Gainsborough, at 4.30pm on July 26, last year.

On his return from work four hours later Mr Parsons found his black and white
cat, Suzie, dead in his microwave. District Judge John Stobart described Henry's
actions as the worst case of animal cruelty. He also received a life-long ban on
keeping animals.

'I am considering an indeterminate sentence for public protection' Judge Michael
Heath

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Convicted: Paul Henry has been found guilty of attempted murder after
he stabbed his ex-girlfriend hours after leaving court

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LIE


                        Copyright 2012 Lincolnshire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 18, 2012 Thursday 8:22 AM GMT

FBI arrests man in terror sting: timeline of plots on US soil;
Since the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center in September 2001 US
authorities have uncovered several attempts to cause death and destruction on
American soil. Here is a timeline of some of the major plots.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 382 words


September 11 2001:

Terrorists hijack four commercial airliners taking off from various US airports
in a co-ordinated suicide attack orchestrated by al-Qaeda. Two of the planes
crash into the twin towers of the World Trade Centre in New York causing them to
collapse. A third crashes into the Pentagon, in Washington DC, and the fourth
crashes in Pennsylvania. Approximately 3,000 people are thought to have died.

December 2001:

Richard Reid, a British citizen, hides explosives inside his shoes aboard a
flight from Paris to Miami and attempts to set them off. He is apprehended and
the flight diverts to Boston's Logan Airport. Reid is found guilty of terrorism
offences in 2003 and sentenced to life in prison.

May 2007:

Six men are arrested in a plot to attack Fort Dix - a US Army base in New
Jersey. The plan included attacking soldiers with grenades and assault rifles.

November 2009:

Nidal Malik Hasan, a US Army major serving as a psychiatrist, shoots dead 13
people at Fort Hood - America's biggest military base. Police shoot and wound
Hasan during his rampage at the Texas base. He is charged with 13 counts of
premeditated murder and 32 counts of attempted murder.

December 2009:

Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, a Nigerian with an American visa, attempts to blow up
a jet over Detroit on Christmas Day using explosives hidden in his underwear. He
is subsequently charged with six terrorism offences and remains in US custody.

May 2010:

Police foil attempted car bombing in New York's Times Square. A sports utility
vehicle laden with three propane tanks, dozens of firecrackers, two tanks of
gasoline and fertiliser, was parked at the corner or West 45th Street and
Broadway, an area full of pedestrians.

October 2012:

FBI agents arrest a Bangladeshi man after he attempted to detonate a 1,000lb car
bomb outside the Federal Reserve . Agents went undercover to set up the sting,
ensuring that the bomb was only a dummy device so the public was never in
danger. Quazi Mohammad Rezwanul Ahsan Nafis, 21, was arrested soon after.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2012 Friday

Official pledges response to "terrorist attack" in Iran's southern port

LENGTH: 150 words


The prosecutor of Iran's south-eastern city of Zahedan, Mohammad Marziyeh, has
said that "the judicial system will respond to the ominous action taken by
terrorists today", the Iranian Students News Agency, ISNA, reported on 19
October.

Marziyeh made the above comment in an interview with ISNA on "the suicide attack
carried out in a mosque" in the south-eastern port of Chabahar on the same day.

He said: "Sadly in this incident two members of the [volunteer] Basij
Organization were martyred and two young children as well as a police officer
were injured."

According to ISNA Marziyeh said that "these actions aim to open rift between
Shi'is and Sunnis and to suggest instability in border provinces."

The report added that Zahedan's prosecutor condemned the incident and stressed
that "the judicial system will respond to the ominous action".

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 1248 gmt 19 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2012 Friday

Ivorian paper urges army to be proactive in dealing with "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 457 words


Text of report by Le Patriote daily, owned by President Ouattara's Rally of
Republicans, on 17 October

[Commentary by Lacina Ouattara: "Vigilance and Prevention"]

Since early August, the republican forces have been faced with terrorist attacks
by those who still refuse to join the dynamics of peace as advocated by the
authorities, and who intend to create a feeling of insecurity and instilling
permanent psychosis among people. More than a dozen attacks against positions
held by the Ivorian army have taken place and each time, it is the same
scenario: the assailants would attack and the FRCI [Republican Forces of Cote
d'Ivoire] would retaliate.

Indeed, in this war, attackers have always been at the forefront of operations
and FRCI would intervene to save the day. However, a popular adage says that
prevention is better than cure. In addition, it is high time the military
reversed the roles in this battle against enemies of the republic.

For if the assailants who attacked the Azito thermal plant on Sunday night [14
October] had seen their plans through, all the economic capital would have been
plunged into darkness and the damage in that case would have been more serious.

Imagine for a moment the city of Abidjan in the dark, it could be easily
understood that the attackers, beyond sporadic attacks aimed at creating a
feeling of insecurity, mean business in their destabilization activities.
According to reliable sources, ill-intentioned individuals, who have not
abandoned the attacks, have now chosen to take on the buildings that today are
the pride of the Cote d'Ivoire.

In this vein, criminal attacks are not to be ruled out in the days to come.
Therefore, it seems reasonable that the military and government authorities play
the card of anticipation to prevent these subversive actions. Faced with
terrorists, the state of Cote d'Ivoire needs a sharp intelligence service, which
in real time, will unmask those who want to prevent Cote d'Ivoire from enjoying
lasting peace, and quietly embarking on the path towards development and
prosperity. Like the United States, and France, to name but just two countries,
faced terrorist threats, Cote d'Ivoire must now have an intelligence service
able to glean information about threats of harm to national security, and
provide information to the security forces so that they may anticipate events.

It is at such a price that Ivorians can be reassured. Alertness, anticipation
and efficiency in action will surely lead to the wiping out of the enemies of
the republic, who fell nostalgia for the time of disorder, anarchy and unlawful
enrichment, in which they delighted under the previous regime of the Ivorian
Popular Front.

Source: Le Patriote, Abidjan, in French 17 Oct 12 p 2

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 19, 2012 Friday 4:01 PM GMT

CIA knew deadly assault on US consulate was a terror attack just 24 hours later
(so why did White House officials maintain it was a violent protest for a week?)

BYLINE: JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 944 words



     ·    The revelation is surprising as the Obama administration maintained
          publicly for a week that the attack was a result of the mobs
     ·    It is unclear who, if anyone, saw the cable outside the CIA at that
          point and how high up in the agency the information went


The U.S government was told within 24 hours of the deadly attack on the U.S.
Consulate in Benghazi that there was evidence it was carried out by militants,
not a spontaneous mob upset about an anti-Islam video.

The assault, on the anniversary of September 11 last month, left U.S. ambassador
Chris Stevens and three other American officials dead.

The revelation could be damaging as the Obama administration maintained publicly
for a week that the attack on the diplomatic mission was a result of the mobs.

It is unclear who, if anyone, saw the cable outside the CIA at that point and
how high up in the agency the information went.

Those statements have become highly charged political fodder as the presidential
election approaches.

A Republican-led House committee questioned State Department officials for hours
about what Republican lawmakers said was lax security at the consulate, given
the growth of extremist Islamic militants in North Africa.

And in their debate on Tuesday, President Barack Obama and Republican challenger
Mitt Romney argued over when Obama first said it was a terror attack.

In his Rose Garden address the morning after the killings, Obama said, 'No acts
of terror will ever shake the resolve of this great nation, alter that character
or eclipse the light of the values that we stand for.'

But Republicans say he was speaking generally and didn't specifically call the
Benghazi attack a terror attack until weeks later, with the president and other
key members of his administration referring at first to the anti-Muslim movie
circulating on the Internet as a precipitating event.

Now congressional intelligence committees are demanding documents to show what
the spy agencies knew and when, before, during and after the attacks.

Last week, the State Department said that it never believed the September 11
attack on the U.S. consulate was the result of a protest over an anti-Islam
movie, contradicting previous statements.

The White House now says the attack probably was carried out by an al
Qaida-linked group, with no public demonstration beforehand. Secretary of State
Hillary Rodham Clinton blamed the 'fog of war'for the early conflicting
accounts.

The officials who told the AP about the CIA cable spoke anonymously because they
were not authorized to release such information publicly.

Congressional aides say they expect to get the documents by the end of this week
to build a timeline of what the intelligence community knew and compare that
with what the White House was telling the public about the attack. That could
give Romney ammunition to use in his foreign policy debate with Obama on Monday
night.

The two U.S. officials said the CIA station chief in Libya compiled intelligence
reports from eyewitnesses within 24 hours of the assault on the consulate that
indicated militants launched the violence, using the pretext of demonstrations
against U.S. facilities in Egypt against the film to cover their intent.

The report from the station chief was written late Wednesday, Sept. 12, and
reached intelligence agencies in Washington the next day, intelligence officials
said.

Yet, on Saturday of that week, briefing points sent by the CIA to Congress said
'demonstrations in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the
U.S. Embassy in Cairo and evolved into a direct assault.'

The briefing points, obtained by the AP, added: 'There are indications that
extremists participated in the violent demonstrations'but did not mention
eyewitness accounts that blamed militants alone.

Such raw intelligence reports by the CIA on the ground would normally be sent
first to analysts at the headquarters in Langley, Virginaia, for vetting and
comparing against other intelligence derived from eavesdropping drones and
satellite images.

Only then would such intelligence generally be shared with the White House and
later, Congress, a process that can take hours, or days if the intelligence is
coming only from one or two sources who may or may not be trusted.

U.S. intelligence officials say in this case the delay was due in part to the
time it took to analyze various conflicting accounts.

One official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to
discuss the incident publicly, explained that 'it was clear a group of people
gathered that evening'in Benghazi, but that the early question was 'whether
extremists took over a crowd or they were the crowd.'

But that explanation has been met with concern in Congress.

'The early sense from the intelligence community differs from what we are
hearing now,'Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff said. 'It ended up being pretty far
afield, so we want to figure out why... though we don't want to deter the
intelligence community from sharing their best first impressions'after such
events in the future.

'The intelligence briefings we got a week to 10 days after were consistent with
what the administration was saying,'said Rep. William Thornberry, a member of
the House Intelligence and Armed Services committees.

Thornberry would not confirm the existence of the early CIA report but voiced
skepticism over how sure intelligence officials, including CIA Director David
Petraeus, seemed of their original account when they briefed lawmakers on
Capitol Hill.

'How could they be so certain immediately after such events, I just don't
know,'he said. 'That raises suspicions that there was political motivation.'

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 19, 2012 Friday 1:28 PM GMT

US election: Barack Obama admits Libya failings in The Daily Show interview;
Barack Obama admitted there had been failings in the aftermath of the Benghazi
terror attack and said some White House communications needed to be "fixed", in
an unusually austere interview with comedian Jon Stewart on The Daily Show last
night.

BYLINE: By Amy Willis Los Angeles

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 434 words


During the 14-minute appearance on the usually satirical show, Stewart pressed
the president on his handling of the consulate attack in Libya as well as his
failure to close the Guantánamo Bay prison camp - a so far unfulfilled promise
from his 2008 campaign.

In response to a question on why internal communications between agencies had
broken down, the president told the Comedy Central host that government was a
big operation and "at any given time something screws up" but insisted his
administration hadn't been confused about the fact that four Americans -
including US Ambassador Christopher Stevens - had died.

Asked whether his administration's response had been "optimal", President Obama
said: "Here's what I'll say. When four Americans get killed, it's not optimal.
We're going to fix it. All of it."

Defending his national security team, he said: "I wasn't confused about the fact
that we needed to ramp up diplomatic security around the world right after it
happened. I wasn't confused about the fact that we had to investigate exactly
what happened so it gets fixed. And I wasn't confused about the fact that we're
going to hunt down whoever did it."

Despite communication shortfalls between agencies, the president said his
administration was conveying all the information it had on the attack to the
American people.

"Every piece of information that we get, as we got it we laid it out to the
American people. The picture eventually gets fully filled in," he said, adding:
"American people need to know exactly how I make decisions when it comes to war,
peace, security, and protecting Americans. And they will continue to get that
over the next four years of my presidency."

Obama vowed to continue to try and shut down the US facility at Guantánamo Bay,
saying so far he hadn't managed to get it through Congress.

"One of the things we have to do is get the legal architecture in place, and we
need congressional help to do that so that not only am I reined in but any
president's reined in in terms of some of the decisions we're making," he added,
saying he hopes that more Democrats are elected as many Republicans seem
unwilling to compromise.

Despite most of the show taking a more serious tone, Stewart and Obama joked
about vice president Joe Biden and whether the 69-year-old with a Cheshire-cat
smile had ever attended a meeting in a wet swimming costume. "We had to stop
that," Obama jested back, but "I gotta say though he looks pretty good."

Barack Obama's interview on The Daily Show airs in the UK tonight on Comedy
Central at 11pm

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            October 19, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terrorists 'waiting for right moment to attack UK'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 232 words


Terrorists who want to harm the UK are "waiting for the moment when we take our
eye off the ball", the Security Minister has said.

The emergency services need to be better prepared to tackle a lone gunman on UK
streets and Britain is facing an increasing risk of terrorism from the situation
in Mali, James Brokenshire said.

"A collective failure to act might well manifest in attacks closer to home," he
said.

"Those who want to do us harm are waiting for the moment when we take our eye
off the ball.

"The threat remains very real. But that does not mean we cannot stay ahead of
it."

Home Secretary Theresa May has asked the police and other emergency services "to
make further improvements to the joint response", he added.

Speaking at the Royal United Services Institute (Rusi) in London, Mr Brokenshire
said: "Staying ahead of the threat means ensuring our emergency response is
capable of dealing with the threat in whatever form it takes."

Changing tactics have allowed terrorists to "achieve a devastating effect using
relatively unsophisticated means".

"The experiences in Toulouse and in Norway demonstrate the impact that a lone
individual can have if sufficiently motivated, while the November 2008 terrorist
attacks in Mumbai were characterised by an ongoing firearms and explosives
attack. So we are improving the way the emergency services work together in
response to a major incident."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 20, 2012 Saturday

Lebanese Speaker condemns terrorist attack

LENGTH: 146 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese National News Agency website

["Birri: Al-Ashrafiyah blast a terrorist act against Lebanon." - NNA Headline]

NNA - House Speaker Nabih Birri condemned Friday [19 October] the blast which
shook Al-Ashrafiyeh earlier in the afternoon, describing it as a terrorist act
against civilians, their property and Lebanon at large.

Birri noted that the timing of this criminal act, shortly before Adha Feast,
indicated the magnitude of the crime.

"It is not the time to make statements or cast accusations, but time to
contemplate the depth of this crime and allow competent judiciary to carry
investigations which hopefully would uncover the culprits."

The Speaker offered his deepest condolences to the families of martyrs and
wished a speedy recovery for the injured.

Source: Lebanese National News Agency website, Beirut, in English 1835 gmt 19
Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 20, 2012 Saturday

Parliament to discuss 19 October terrorist attack in south-eastern Iran - MP

LENGTH: 146 words


A senior Iranian MP has said that the 19 October terrorist attack in the
south-eastern city of Chabahar will be discussed at the parliament's National
Security and Foreign Policy Committee, Mehr news agency reported on 20 October.

"The incident will be discussed in the commission. Security forces... should...
eradicate such aberrant thinking," the news agency quoted the chairman of the
Committee, Ala'eddin Borujerdi, as saying.

Borujerdi also said that the attack was carried out under the leadership of
"enemies of the Islamic Revolution".

Borujerdi also touched on a Lebanese terrorist attack and added: "There is no
doubt that this crime was planned by the Zionists who had long sought to create
disagreement among Lebanese population groups and wipe out unity among the
groups in the country," Mehr reported.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 0554 gmt 20 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 20, 2012 Saturday

Lebanese president condemns terror attack, urges public to be resilient

LENGTH: 168 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese National News Agency website

["Sulayman condemns Al-Ashrafiyah blast, urges steadfastness among Lebanese." -
NNA Headline]

NNA - President of the Republic, Michel Sulayman, strongly condemned the return
of killing and destruction which targets primarily innocent citizens who are
always the victims of these explosive messages which aim at security and
stability.

Sulayman warned against allowing Lebanese to be victims "on altar of others'
interests, or fuel for their fiery messages."

On that note, he offered his deepest condolences to the families of the victims
and speedy recovery to those injured, calling upon all to focus on the country's
higher interest and civil peace.

"[We should be] resilient...and not fall into strife, despair or frustration."

Head of the state also contacted military, security and judicial authorities,
requesting an intensive investigation into the explosion.

Source: Lebanese National News Agency website, Beirut, in English 1835 gmt 19
Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 20, 2012 Saturday

Three village guards killed in "terrorist" attack in southeastern Turkey

LENGTH: 118 words


Text of report in English by the Turkish state-funded news agency Anadolu (also
known as Anatolia)

[Unattributed report: "Three village guards killed in terrorist attack in
southeast Turkey"]

BITLIS (AA) -October 20, 2012 -Three village guards were killed in a terrorist
attack in the southeastern Bitlis province on Friday.

Also, three village guards and one soldier were wounded in the attack which was
staged on a military unit in Ortakapi village of Bitlis, stated Bitlis
Governor's Office.

A wide operation was launched to capture the terrorists, while wounded guards
and soldier were taken to Bitlis State Hospital.

Source: Anadolu (also known as Anatolia) news agency, Ankara, in English 0636
gmt 20 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 20, 2012 Saturday

Iran foils five "terrorist" attacks in eight months - commander

LENGTH: 410 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran, 20 October: Commander of the Iranian Border Guard Units General Hoseyn
Zolfaqari underlined his forces' capability to maintain security all along the
country's borders, and said more than 5 terrorist attacks were thwarted in
different parts of Iran during the last eight months.

"Outlaws try to carry out terrorist acts in Iran ahead of special events, but
over five terrorist operations have been discovered and thwarted since (the
Iranian month of) Esfand (19 February to 19 March)," Zolfaqari said in Tehran on
Saturday [20 October].

His remarks came after a suicide bomb attack in the Southeastern province of
Sistan and Baluchestan killed three people, including the bomber, on Friday.

Zolfaqari blamed foreign-based terrorist groups for the Friday blast, but
meantime said that the number of the operations carried out by such terrorist
cells has decreased due to border guard and security forces' increased
intelligence operations along the country's borders.

He said investigations are still under way about the source and the way
explosive materials had been smuggled into the country for the Friday blast.

Yesterday reports said that the bomber tried to enter Imam Hoseyn (PBUH) mosque
in Chabahar city, but was identified by Basij (volunteer) forces before he could
enter the mosque. The bomber then began to escape the scene and detonated the
explosive device 400 meters away. Two young Basij forces were martyred in the
incident. Morteza Asudeh, was martyred on the scene of the explosion and another
one, Hamed Bazi, died of his wounds in hospital.

In relevant remarks today, Commander of Iran's Basij (volunteer) force Brigadier
General Mohammad Reza Naqdi condemned the Friday terrorist attack in Chabahar,
and said such terrorist acts plotted by the US and its allies will lead to the
failure and annihilation of the arrogant powers.

"We warn the masterminds of this terror, that is the Great Satan (the US),
...that such terrorist moves will yield no result but unity and solidarity
between the Shi'is and Sunnis and will lead to the absolute defeat, failure and
imminent annihilation and collapse of the world arrogance, while elevating the
exalted position of the dear Islam and the Islamic Iran in the eyes of the
world's public opinion " Naqdi said in a statement on Saturday.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1245 gmt 20 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                           October 20, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Guard still haunted by gunmen's terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 182 words


DURING the terrifying moments of the raid, security guard Trevor Scarr feared he
would not live to tell the tale of his ordeal.

The 56-year-old, pictured, spoke to the Chronicle in the days after the robbery.
Trevor, from Washington, believed his armed attackers would kill him.

"I was on my third trip from the van to the cashpoint when suddenly I was hit in
the back of the neck with a hammer," he said.

"I went straight into total shock. I felt excruciating pain in my shoulder and
neck, and was dazed as they pulled me to the ground.

"I was so scared. I was just lying on the floor thinking, 'Will I survive this?
Will I ever see my wife again?' "They said, 'get to the floor or I'll blow your
head off'."

"I could see the gun in front of me. It was a sawn-off double-barrelled shotgun.
I didn't know if I'd ever get out of it, but I felt so angry.

"The other two guards were still in the pod and one of them managed to hit the
alarm, so I could hear it blaring out. I can't remember any other sound, or
smells, or what the attacker's overalls were like, I just remember praying we
would be OK.''

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2012 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                           October 20, 2012 Saturday

Guard Still Haunted By Gunmen's Terror Attack

BYLINE: Sophie Doughty

SECTION: A; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 182 words


DURING the terrifying moments of the raid, security guard Trevor Scarr feared he
would not live to tell the tale of his ordeal.

The 56-year-old, pictured,  spoke to the Chronicle in the days after the
robbery.

Trevor, from Washington, believed his armed attackers would kill him.

"I was on my third trip from the van to the cashpoint when suddenly I was hit in
the back of the neck with a hammer," he said.

"I went straight into total shock. I felt excruciating pain in my shoulder and
neck, and was dazed as they pulled me to the ground.

"I was so scared. I was just lying on the floor thinking,  Will I survive this?
Will I ever see my wife again?'

"They said,  get to the floor or I'll blow your head off'."

"I could see the gun in front of me. It was a sawn-off double-barrelled shotgun.
I didn't know if I'd ever get out of it, but I felt so angry.

"The other two guards were still in the pod and one of them managed to hit the
alarm, so I could hear it blaring out. I can't remember any other sound, or
smells, or what the attacker's overalls were like, I just remember praying we
would be OK.''

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     October 20, 2012 Saturday 2:33 PM GMT

CIA knew deadly assault on US consulate was a terror attack just 24 hours later
(so why did White House officials maintain it was a violent protest for a week?)

BYLINE: HAYLEY PETERSON and JILL REILLY

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1323 words



     ·    The revelation is surprising as the Obama administration maintained
          publicly for a week that the attack was a result of the mobs
     ·    It is unclear who, if anyone, saw the cable outside the CIA at that
          point and how high up in the agency the information went


U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens repeatedly pleaded with the State Department
to ramp up his security team in Libya -- requests that the Pentagon ultimately
denied -- in the weeks, days and hours leading up to the terrorist attack that
killed him and three other Americans, newly released cables have revealed.

Stevens, who was killed in the 11 September attack on the U.S. consulate in
Benghazi, warned the State Department of a 'security vacuum' in Libya 'that is
being exploited by independent actors' in one cable that described rapidly
deteriorating security conditions.

'Islamic extremists are able to attack the Red Cross with impunity,' he wrote.
'What we have seen are not random crimes of opportunity but rather targeted
discriminate attacks.'

Stevens said the attackers would not be deterred 'until authorities are at least
as capable.'

Just hours before his death, he sent the Pentagon a cable describing 'expanding
Islamist influence in Dema,' a town east of Benghazi, and said he was seeing a
'troubling increase in violence and Islamist influence.'

Stevens recapped a meeting in which the commander of Benghazi's Supreme Security
Council told him there is 'growing frustration with police and security forces.'

The cables were released by Republican Rep. Darrell Issa of California, the
chairman of the U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which is
investigating the security matters surrounding Stevens' death and questioning
whether the State Department could have prevented the deadly attack.

Less than three weeks ahead of the presidential election, Republicans are using
the cables to attack President Obama on his foreign policy, despite the State
Department's claim that it was solely responsible for the decisions to deny
Stevens' requests for more security in Libya.

'These critical foreign policy decisions are not made by low or mid-level career
officials -- they are typically made through a structured and well-reasoned
process that includes the National Security Council and the White House,' Issa
wrote in a letter to Obama on Friday.

The letter claims that Obama had a political motivation in rejecting Stevens'
security requests, since the president was eager to show improving conditions in
Libya after the U.S.-led international operation that toppled Libya dictator
Moamar Gadhafi.

On Aug. 2, six weeks before Stevens was killed, he requested 'protective detail
bodyguard' positions, calling the security situation in Libya 'unpredictable,
volatile and violent.'

A month earlier, he requested that the State Department extend his tour of duty
personnel, which is a 16-man temporary security team trained in combating
terrorism. The request was denied and the security team left 8 August.

Stevens had asked for the security team to stay through mid-September.

Colonel Andrew Wood, the leader of the security team that left Libya in the
weeks before the terror attack, told CBS News that Stevens fought hard against
losing the team.

'It was quite a degree of frustration on their part,' he said. 'They were -- I
guess you could say -- clenched-fist over the whole issue.

The White House maintained publicly for a week that the attack on the U.S.
consulate in Libya was a spontaneous mob upset about an anti-Islam video, even
though it has now been revealed that they were informed within 24 hours of the
attack that it was planned and carried out by militants.

'Your administration has not been straightforward with the American people in
the aftermath of the attack,' Issa wrote in his letter to Obama.

In his Rose Garden address the morning after the killings, Obama said, 'No acts
of terror will ever shake the resolve of this great nation, alter that character
or eclipse the light of the values that we stand for.'

But Republicans say he was speaking generally and didn't specifically call the
Benghazi attack a terror attack until weeks later, with the president and other
key members of his administration referring at first to the anti-Muslim movie
circulating on the Internet as a precipitating event.

Last week, the State Department said that it never believed the 11 September
attack on the U.S. consulate was the result of a protest over an anti-Islam
movie, contradicting previous statements.

The White House now says the attack probably was carried out by an al
Qaida-linked group, with no public demonstration beforehand. Secretary of State
Hillary Rodham Clinton blamed the 'fog of war' for the early conflicting
accounts.

Issa's committee questioned State Department officials for hours about what
Republican lawmakers said was lax security at the consulate, given the growth of
extremist Islamic militants in North Africa.

Congressional aides are hoping to use Stevens' cables and information from State
Department testimonies to build a timeline of what the intelligence community
knew, compared to what the White House was telling the public about the attack.
That could give Romney ammunition to use in his foreign policy debate with Obama
on Monday night.

Reports have revealed that the CIA station chief in Libya compiled an
intelligence briefing from eyewitnesses within 24 hours of the assault on the
consulate that indicated militants launched the violence.

The briefing from the station chief was written late Wednesday, 12 September and
reached intelligence agencies in Washington the next day, intelligence officials
said.

Yet on Saturday of that week, briefing points sent by the CIA to Congress said
'demonstrations in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the
U.S. Embassy in Cairo and evolved into a direct assault.'

The briefing points, obtained by the AP, added: 'There are indications that
extremists participated in the violent demonstrations' but did not mention
eyewitness accounts that blamed militants alone.

Such raw intelligence reports by the CIA on the ground would normally be sent
first to analysts at the headquarters in Langley, Virginia, for vetting and
comparing against other intelligence derived from eavesdropping drones and
satellite images.

Only then would such intelligence generally be shared with the White House and
later, Congress, a process that can take hours, or days if the intelligence is
coming only from one or two sources who may or may not be trusted.

U.S. intelligence officials say in this case the delay was due in part to the
time it took to analyze various conflicting accounts.

One official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he wasn't authorized to
discuss the incident publicly, explained that 'it was clear a group of people
gathered that evening' in Benghazi, but that the early question was 'whether
extremists took over a crowd or they were the crowd.'

But that explanation has been met with concern in Congress.

'The early sense from the intelligence community differs from what we are
hearing now,' Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff said. 'It ended up being pretty far
afield, so we want to figure out why... though we don't want to deter the
intelligence community from sharing their best first impressions' after such
events in the future.

'The intelligence briefings we got a week to 10 days after were consistent with
what the administration was saying,'said Rep. William Thornberry, a member of
the House Intelligence and Armed Services committees.

Thornberry would not confirm the existence of the early CIA report but voiced
skepticism over how sure intelligence officials, including CIA Director David
Petraeus, seemed of their original account when they briefed lawmakers on
Capitol Hill.

'How could they be so certain immediately after such events, I just don't
know,'he said. 'That raises suspicions that there was political motivation.'

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 20, 2012 Saturday 5:40 AM GMT

Benghazi embassy attack 'was no act of terror'

BYLINE: Anne Barrowclough

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 384 words


US authorities have found no evidence that last month's lethal attack on the
American consulate in Benghazi was ordered by al Qaeda, according to reports.

After five weeks of investigation US intelligence agencies have concluded that
the attack, which left four Americans including the ambassador, Christopher
Stevens, dead was "carried out following a minimum amount of planning."

"The attackers exhibited a high degree of disorganization," an intelligence
official told The Los Angeles Times. "Some joined the attack in progress, some
did not have weapons and others just seemed interested in looting," he said.

Another official told the newspaper: "There isn't any intelligence that the
attackers pre-planned their assault days or weeks in advance."

He said most of the evidence suggested that: "The attackers launched their
assault opportunistically" after learning about the riots at the US Embassy in
Cairo that had erupted over an anti-Islam video.

The description contradicts the Obama administration's recent assertions that
the assault on the consulate, which was ransacked and burned was an act of
terrorism. Immediately after the attack officials, notably Susan Rice, the US
ambassador to the United Nations, said they believed it had been inspired by the
inflammatory video, which portrayed Mohammed as a paedophile.

However witnesses in Benghazi told the LA Times that members of the party that
raided the US embassy specifically mentioned the video.

Tarek, an off-duty police sergeant, said he came to the scene about an hour
after the attack began and found militants blocking the road leading to the
compound.

"They drew their guns on me and they told me that the Americans were abusing our
prophet," he said. "That's why they said they had come to fight."

He and others described the attackers as a mob rather than a team of commandos,
the LA Times reported.

The guards at the embassy described the attackers as a mixture of experienced
fighters and teenagers who arrived in about 20 pickup trucks, many of which had
machine guns mounted on them.

"This was a group of thieves that saw a chance and wanted to seize it," said
Hamad Bougrain, a spokesman for the February 17 Martyrs Brigade, a Libyan
pro-government militia some of whose members were part of the security detail
guarding the embassy.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 20, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Hotel terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 39 words


Delhi Gunmen described by police as militants killed a hotel porter in Srinagar
in an attack apparently aimed at Kashmir's domestic tourism revival. Indians
have been returning to the Muslim-majority state as extremist violence has
waned.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2012 Sunday

Iran buries victims of "terror attack" in south-eastern region

LENGTH: 175 words


Text of report by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Chabahar, 21 October: This morning a funeral procession was held for the bodies
of martyrs [who were killed] in a terrorist attack [on 19 October] outside Imam
Husayn mosque in Chabahar. The ceremony was attended by representatives of the
public and the authorities.

According to Mehr News Agency, the funeral procession for the immaculate bodies
of martyrs Morteza Asudeh and Hamed Bazi was held on Sunday morning [21 October]
by the supporters of Velayat [Shi'i clerical ruling system] and martyr-nurturing
people of Chabahar.

After the funeral ceremony, the immaculate body of martyr Hamed Bazi will be
buried in the Chabahar's unknown martyrs' graveyard at the Imam Husayn mosque.

The body of martyr Morteza Asudeh will be transferred to Zahedan for burial in
his eternal tomb.

In a terrorist attack outside Imam Husayn mosque in Chabahar on Friday by the
agents of arrogance, two people were martyred and several people were injured.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in Persian 0727 gmt 21 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2012 Sunday

Police identify agents behind "terror attack" in south-eastern Iran - report

LENGTH: 155 words


The Public and Revolution Prosecutor, Mohammad Marziyeh, in Iran's south-eastern
Zahedan Township has said that agents of the recent "terrorist attack" were
identified, Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) reported on 21 October.

In an interview with IRNA following the explosion in Chabahar Township of
Sistan-Baluchestan Province that claimed lives of two Basij members, prosecutor
Marziyeh said: "After identifying backstage agents of the terror attack in a
neighbouring country, appropriate measures were taken by the judiciary bodies to
arrest them through the Interpol, and their arrest warrants will be sent to the
relevant country."

Prosecutor Mohammad Marziyeh expressed his hope that the "terrorists" would be
arrested and punished in line with laws and in cooperation with senior officials
of the neighbouring country in near future, the report added.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 0749 gmt 21 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 21, 2012 Sunday 8:07 PM GMT

Authorities in Jordan thwart suspected terror attacks

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: MIDDLE EAST

LENGTH: 95 words


Authorities in Jordan have arrested 11 suspected al-Qa'ida-linked militants for
allegedly planning to attack shopping centres and Western diplomatic missions in
the country.

Government spokesman Sameeh Maaytah said the suspects are all Jordanian and are
in police custody.

He said the men had brought in arms from neighbouring Syria to use them in the
alleged plot.

He also said al Qaida operatives based in Iraq have been assisting the suspects
with manufacturing home-made explosives.

He said that Jordanian intelligence agents arrested the suspects in the past few
days.

AP

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2012 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 21, 2012 Sunday 8:33 PM GMT

Security forces foil '9/11 the second' al-Qaeda terrorist plot to kill thousands
with suicide attacks on shopping centres in Jordan

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 727 words



     ·    Al-Qaeda plot hatched since June targeted shopping malls and Western
          diplomats
     ·    Suspects had detonated trial explosives, according to security sources
     ·    Terrorists 'planned to fire rockets' at U.S. and British diplomats in
          Jordan
     ·    Security service have arrested 11 suspects in connection with the plot
     ·    Alleged conspirators codenamed attack '9/11 the second'
     ·    Police release images of four of the alleged terrorists


A deadly terrorist attack codenamed '9/11 the second' by plotters has been
foiled by Jordanian security forces, it was claimed tonight.

Security forces say the al-Qaeda cell wanted to inflict 'the heaviest human
losses possible' with coordinated suicide attacks on shopping centres and
Western diplomats in Jordan had been mon

Authorities have arrested 11 suspects who intended to carry out bombings in the
capital Amman using smuggled weapons and explosives brought from Syria,
authorities said.

The plan was aimed at killing thousands of people and destabalising the
country's security and had been going on since June, it was claimed.

Jordan's state TV broadcast headshots of the suspects - all in their 20s and 30s
with most of them sporting long beards - identifying them as 'militants.'

Announcing the foiled plot, government spokesman Sameeh Maaytah told an
impromptu press conference that the suspects are all Jordanian and are in police
custody.

'They were plotting deadly terror attacks on vital institutions, shopping
centers and diplomatic missions,' he said.

'They sought to destabilize Jordan,' he said. 'They plotted against Jordan's
national security.'

A statement by Jordanian intelligence said an investigation showed that the
group 'adopts the ideology of al-Qaida' and that it nicknamed its terror plot as
'9/11 the second' - a reference to the Amman hotel blasts, which happened on
Nov. 9, 2005.

Since June, the suspects have been surveying targets across the country,
bringing in rockets from Syria to use in the alleged plot, the statement said.

The militants sought to carry out their attacks in stages, it added, with
initial attacks on shopping centers and foreigners in Jordanian hotels, followed
by more deadly strikes with powerful explosives and chemicals on Western
diplomatic missions and unspecified 'vital national sites'.

One planned attack involved firing rockets at a district in the Jordanian
capital that houses the U.S., British and other diplomatic missions as well as
housing for expats and Western diplomats, it was claimed.

The statement said al-Qaida 'explosive experts' based in Iraq and elsewhere have
assisted the suspects with manufacturing home-made explosives.

The statement did not say when the suspects were arrested, but Maaytah - the
government spokesman - said Jordanian intelligence apprehended them in the past
few days.

'Their plans included getting explosives and mortars from Syria,' a security
source revealed.

The security source said the suspects had manufactured explosives 'aimed at
inflicting the heaviest human losses possible' and had detonated trial devices.

Jordan is a key U.S. ally in the Middle East and Israel's peace partner.

The Arab kingdom has often been targeted by al-Qaeda and other Islamic
militants. It regularly arrests terror suspects and puts them on trial.

Government spokesman Sameeh Maaytah says the suspects are all Jordanian and are
in police custody.

He said the men had brought in arms from neighboring Syria to use them in the
alleged plot.

He also said al-Qaida operatives based in Iraq have been assisting the suspects
with manufacturing home-made explosives.

He said Sunday that Jordanian intelligence agents arrested the suspects in the
past few days.

Had the plot come to fruition, it is feared the death toll would have dwarfed a
recent car bombing in Beirut - also linked to the civil war torn neighbouring
country.

This is the latest incident to be linked to the spiralling violence spilling out
of neighbouring Syria.

Lebanon's prime minister said this week that a massive car bombing originated
from Syria.

The bomb exploded during rush hour in the mainly Christian district of Ashrafiya
killed eight including a top security official, and injured nearly 100 -
deadliest bombing in Beirut in four years.

Prime Minister Najib Mikati said the blast is linked to the intelligence chief's
recent case, in which he exposed an alleged plot by Syria to sow chaos in
Lebanon.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 21, 2012 Sunday 8:10 PM GMT

Security forces foil 'major al-Qaeda terrorist plot to kill thousands' with
suicide attacks on shopping centres in Jordan

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 418 words



     ·    Al-Qaeda plot hatched since June targeted shopping malls and Western
          diplomats
     ·    Suspects had detonated trial explosives, according to security sources
     ·    Security service have arrested 11 suspects in connection with the plot
     ·    Police release images of four of the alleged terrorists


A deadly terrorist plot aimed at killing thousands with coordinated suicide
attacks on shopping centres and Western diplomats in Jordan, according to the
country's security forces.

Authorities have arrested 11 suspects who intended to carry out bombings in the
capital Amman using smuggled weapons and explosives brought from Syria, state
television reported this evening.

The major plot by an al Qaeda-linked cell was aimed at destabalising the
country's security and had been going on since June, it was claimed.

'Their plans included getting explosives and mortars from Syria,' a security
source revealed.

The attacks, aimed at western and commercial areas, would likely have resulted
in the death of thousands, according to Jordanian authorities.

The security source said the suspects had manufactured explosives 'aimed at
inflicting the heaviest human losses possible' and had detonated trial devices.

Jordan is a key U.S. ally in the Middle East and Israel's peace partner.

The Arab kingdom has often been targeted by al-Qaeda and other Islamic
militants. It regularly arrests terror suspects and puts them on trial.

Government spokesman Sameeh Maaytah says the suspects are all Jordanian and are
in police custody.

He said the men had brought in arms from neighboring Syria to use them in the
alleged plot.

He also said al-Qaida operatives based in Iraq have been assisting the suspects
with manufacturing home-made explosives.

He said Sunday that Jordanian intelligence agents arrested the suspects in the
past few days.

Had the plot come to fruition, it is feared the death toll would have dwarfed a
recent car bombing in Beirut - also linked to the civil war torn neighbouring
country.

This is the latest incident to be linked to the spiralling violence spilling out
of neighbouring Syria.

Lebanon's prime minister said this week that a massive car bombing originated
from Syria.

The bomb exploded during rush hour in the mainly Christian district of Ashrafiya
killed eight including a top security official, and injured nearly 100 -
deadliest bombing in Beirut in four years.

Prime Minister Najib Mikati said the blast is linked to the intelligence chief's
recent case, in which he exposed an alleged plot by Syria to sow chaos in
Lebanon.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 21, 2012 Sunday 8:23 PM GMT

Jordan 'foils major al-Qaeda plot';
Jordan claimed on Sunday to have thwarted one of the largest terror attacks ever
planned in the Middle East after foiling an al-Qaeda plot to kill diplomats and
detonate a series of bombs in Amman.

BYLINE: By Kadhim Shubber in Amman and Adrian Blomfield, Middle East
Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 552 words


Ending a four-month surveillance operation, the Jordanian intelligence service
arrested 11 suspected militants with links to al-Qaeda.

Government officials in Amman said that the conspirators had aimed to eclipse
the bombing of three hotels in the city in 2005, an attack that claimed more
than 60 lives.

Using arms smuggled in from neighbouring Syria, the militants aimed to bring
death and destruction across the capital, according to Jordan's General
Intelligence Department.

Demonstrating the ambitious scope of the plot, the militants are alleged to have
planned to launch suicide bombings in two shopping malls in Amman in a
diversionary attack.

With the attention of the security forces distracted, the suspects then planned
to launch their main assault in Abdoun, the city's most prosperous district.

In an operation that would have been similar to the Mumbai attacks of 2008,
gunmen and suicide bombers would have worked in tandem to launch a series of
assaults in the district.

Western diplomats, many of whom are based in Abdoun, were among the targets,
Jordan's Petra news agency reported.

The plot would have culminated in mortars being fired into the district.

Samih Maayatah, Jordan's information minister, said that the suspected
terrorists had entered the country from Syria, although all 11 are believed to
be Jordanian. The group is said to have been advised by al-Qaeda explosives
experts in Iraq.

The uncovering of the plot comes days after Jordanian border guards arrested two
cousins of Abu Musab al Zarqawi, the Jordanian militant who led al-Qaeda's Iraqi
wing, as they entered the country from Syria.

Zarqawi, who was killed by US forces in Iraq in 2006, claimed responsibility for
the hotel bombings in Amman the previous year.

Zayed Sweiti and Firas Khalailah were arrested after spending five months
fighting in Syria, a Jordanian Islamist leader told the French news agency AFP
last week.

It is unclear, however, if they had any links with the plot.

Jordanian officials said that the group had been under surveillance for several
months after the General Intelligence Department was alerted to the plot in
June.

When the arrests were made, the group was in the process of choosing suicide
bombers for the attacks, they said. Machine guns, and explosive materials -
including TNT - were seized during the raids.

The case had not been referred to the state security court, a military tribunal,
and the suspects are not being questioned.

"They will face two charges - conspiracy to carry out terrorist acts and
possession of explosives," a judicial source was quoted as saying. If convicted,
the men face the death sentence.

Mr Maayatah told a press conference in Amman: "The prisoners came across the
border from Syria and were caught red-handed."

Jordan has bolstered its border security amid fears that the violence in Syria
could spill over into the Kingdom. An estimated 150 American troops are
currently based 35 miles from the Syrian border, advising the Jordanian military
on the Syria crisis and on how to cope with the 200,000 Syrian refugees now in
Jordan.

In addition, the Jordanian government has imposed strict rules on Syrian
refugees in Jordan, including heavily restricting their movement outside of the
refugee camps, in a bid to prevent the country being used as a base for Syrian
rebels.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 22, 2012 Monday

Indian Army sets up base in central Kashmir to prevent terror attacks in capital

LENGTH: 601 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Army sets up camp in Srinagar outskirts"
published by Indian newspaper Daily Excelsior website on 22 October

Srinagar: To prevent attacks on capital city Srinagar and National Highway from
Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT), which had made base in the outskirts of Srinagar, Army
has set up a camp in village Chattergam in the Central Kashmir district of
Budgam. The Rashtriya Rifles camp was set up in village Chattergam in district
Budgam in the outskirts of Srinagar for which they have acquired one hectare of
private land on rent. There was already a small Army camp in a private house in
the village before it was closed down 3 years ago after the improvement in the
security situation in South and Central Kashmir. The need for setting up of the
Army camp was felt after rising militancy in South Kashmir with parts of Budgam
and Pulwama district becoming a safe heaven for LeT commanders, who were
planning attacks on Srinagar and South Kashmir from this vast unattended area.

General Officer Commanding (GOC) of Srinagar-based 15 Corps Lt General Om
Prakash admitted in July this year that over the years security forces focused
on North Kashmir where there are more militants than South Kashmir but militants
chose South Kashmir where security forces had decreased their presence following
relative calm in the area.

The security agencies said that feeling security pressure in North Kashmir, the
LeT made this area - west of river Jhelum from Srinagar Railway Station to
Pulwama town - as their base. The LeT Divisional Commander for South Kashmir,
Mohammad Qasim, who took over charge of South Kashmir after the killing of Abdul
Rehman alias Rehman Bhai last year in October was hiding in this area. Prior to
shifting to this area, Qasim was in Dacchigam area for almost a year.

Deputy of Qasim, Sajjad from village Zewan in the outskirts of Srinagar who is
active in South Kashmir for past 8 years and two other commanders Imtiaz Teli,
of Petipora in district Pulwama and Bilal Ahmad Bhat of Lalhar in district
Pulwama were operating from this area prior to July Pampore attack in which one
Army personnel was killed and another critically injured. These top commanders
have reportedly fled from the area after the security operations were
intensified in the aftermath of Pampore attack on Army. Divisional Commander
Qasim was trapped by the security forces on August 29 in the South Kashmir's
Shopian district village of Brinail but he escaped from the security cordon
along with LeT district Commander Shopian, Mudasir Sheikh, and fled to South
Kashmir's Pirpanchal mountains.

The decision to set up the security camp in the outskirts of Srinagar was taken
in a review meeting held on July 8, a day after the Pampore attack that was
described by the Army as alarming.

The review meeting had observed that a large area in the outskirts of Srinagar
from Srinagar Railway Station to Pulwama town had no security presence after
several security force camps were removed in South and Central Kashmir following
improvement in the situation.

The meeting had decided intense security operations in the area to nab the LeT
militants who had established base in the area till the camp is established.

The main worry for the security agencies was a militant base in the vast area
adjacent to the National Highway from Awantipora in South Kashmir to Hyderpora
Bypass in Srinagar. This had made capital city Srinagar and the national highway
vulnerable to militant attacks like Pampore and yesterday's attack on Srinagar
Bypass.

Source: Daily Excelsior website, Jammu, in English 22 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 22, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Diplomats were target of foiled terror attack

BYLINE: Kadhim Shubber; Adrian Blomfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 421 words


JORDAN claimed to have thwarted one of the largest terror attacks ever planned
in the Middle East yesterday after foiling an al-Qaeda plot to kill diplomats
and detonate a series of bombs in Amman.

; Ending a four-month surveillance operation, the Jordanian intelligence service
arrested 11 suspected militants with links to al-Qaeda. Government officials in
Amman said that the suspects had aimed to dwarf the bombing of three hotels in
the city in 2005, an attack that claimed more than 60 lives.

; Using arms smuggled in from Syria, the militants aimed to bring death and
destruction across the capital, according to Jordan's General Intelligence
Department.

; The militants are alleged to have planned to launch suicide bombings in two
shopping centres in Amman in a diversionary attack. With the attention of the
security forces distracted, the suspects then planned to launch their main
assault in Abdoun, the city's most prosperous district.

; In an operation that would have been similar to the Mumbai attacks of 2008,
gunmen and suicide bombers would have worked in tandem to launch a series of
assaults.

; Western diplomats, many of whom are based in Abdoun, were among the targets,
Jordan's Petra news agency reported. The plot would have culminated in mortars
being fired into the district.

; Samih Maayatah, Jordan's information minister, said that the suspected
terrorists had entered the country from Syria, although all 11 are believed to
be Jordanian. The group is said to have been advised by al-Qaeda explosives
experts in Iraq.

; The uncovering of the plot comes days after border guards arrested two cousins
of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the Jordanian militant who led al-Qaeda's Iraqi wing.

; Zarqawi, who was killed by US forces in Iraq in 2006, claimed responsibility
for the hotel bombings in Amman the previous year.

; Zayed Sweiti and Firas Khalailah were arrested after spending five months
fighting in Syria, a Jordanian Islamist leader said last week.

; It is unclear if they had any links with the plot. Jordanian officials said
that the group had been under surveillance for several months after the
intelligence department was alerted to the plot in June.

; When the arrests were made, the group was in the process of choosing suicide
bombers for the attacks, they said. Machine guns, and explosive materials were
seized during the raids.

; "They will face two charges: conspiracy to carry out terrorist acts and
possession of explosives," a judicial source said. If convicted, the men will
face the death sentence.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 22, 2012 Monday 10:32 PM GMT

Revealed: Second U.S. building attacked in Libya terror raid was CIA base... as
it emerges American drones were circling above but were 'too slow' to act

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1176 words



     ·    Second building in Benghazi had previously been described as an
          'annexe'
     ·    Two SEALs died while defending base a mile away from U.S. consulate
     ·    American drones were in the sky above city during deadly September 11
          raid


The 'annexe' to the U.S. consulate in Benghazi which was attacked by militants
last month was a CIA building, it has been revealed.

The intelligence base, which has previously been described only as a 'safe
house', was the building which two Navy SEALs were defending when they died in
the terrorist raid.

It was around a mile from the consulate where ambassador Chris Stevens and
diplomat Sean Smith were killed on the night of September 11.

Scroll down for video

The secret function of the mysterious second building was revealed today by U.S.
officials talking to  Fox News.

The news comes just two days after it was revealed that American drones were
hovering over Libya's second largest city at the time of the attack, but did not
intervene to prevent the slaughter of the four Americans.

The revelation that CIA agents were embedded in the heart of Benghazi raises
further questions over the intelligence failures which failed to prevent the
deadly attack and then led to it being mislabelled as a spontaneous protest over
an anti-Muslim video.

U.S. intelligence agents were in Benghazi looking for 20,000 missiles which had
been used by Muammar Gaddafi's army, in an effort to stop them falling into the
hands of Islamist militias.

It is unclear exactly how many CIA operatives were stationed at the base, but
officials said that two aircraft were required to lift all agents and diplomats
out of Benghazi.

Two weeks ago, officials from the State Department speaking at a congressional
hearing exhibited a map of Benghazi with the CIA station marked on it, but were
asked to remove the map.

On Saturday, Gary Berntsen told CBS News that U.S. military officials had been
able to watch the attack through unmanned aerial drones in the sky above
Benghazi, and criticised them for being too slow to respond.

'They stood, and they watched, and our people died,' he said.

Defense Department officials considered sending troops in to rescue the
ambassador and staff, but ultimately decided not to.

Stevens repeatedly pleaded with the State Department to ramp up his security
team in Libyain the weeks, days and hours leading up to the terrorist attack,
newly released cables have revealed.

The ambassador warned officials of a 'security vacuum' in Libya 'that is being
exploited by independent actors' in one cable that described rapidly
deteriorating security conditions.

'Islamic extremists are able to attack the Red Cross with impunity,' he wrote.
'What we have seen are not random crimes of opportunity but rather targeted
discriminate attacks.'

Stevens said the attackers would not be deterred 'until authorities are at least
as capable.'

Just hours before his death, he sent the Pentagon a cable describing 'expanding
Islamist influence in Dema,' a town east of Benghazi, and said he was seeing a
'troubling increase in violence and Islamist influence.'

Stevens recapped a meeting in which the commander of Benghazi's Supreme Security
Council told him there is 'growing frustration with police and security forces.'

The cables were released by Republican Rep. Darrell Issa of California, the
chairman of the U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which is
investigating the security matters surrounding Stevens' death and questioning
whether the State Department could have prevented the deadly attack.

Less than three weeks ahead of the presidential election, Republicans are using
the cables to attack President Obama on his foreign policy, despite the State
Department's claim that it was solely responsible for the decisions to deny
Stevens' requests for more security in Libya.

'These critical foreign policy decisions are not made by low or mid-level career
officials - they are typically made through a structured and well-reasoned
process that includes the National Security Council and the White House,' Issa
wrote in a letter to Obama on Friday.

The letter claims that Obama had a political motivation in rejecting Stevens'
security requests, since the president was eager to show improving conditions in
Libya after the U.S.-led international operation that toppled Libya dictator
Muammar Gaddafi.

On August 2, six weeks before Stevens was killed, he requested 'protective
detail bodyguard' positions, calling the security situation in Libya
'unpredictable, volatile and violent.'

A month earlier, he requested that the State Department extend his tour of duty
personnel, which is a 16-man temporary security team trained in combating
terrorism. The request was denied and the security team left on August 8.

Stevens had asked for the security team to stay through mid-September.

Colonel Andrew Wood, the leader of the security team that left Libya in the
weeks before the terror attack, told CBS News that Stevens fought hard against
losing the team.

'It was quite a degree of frustration on their part,' he said. 'They were - I
guess you could say - clenched-fist over the whole issue.

The White House maintained publicly for a week that the attack on the U.S.
consulate in Libya was a spontaneous mob upset about an anti-Islam video, even
though it has now been revealed that they were informed within 24 hours of the
attack that it was planned and carried out by militants.

'Your administration has not been straightforward with the American people in
the aftermath of the attack,' Issa wrote in his letter to Obama.

In his Rose Garden address the morning after the killings, Obama said, 'No acts
of terror will ever shake the resolve of this great nation, alter that character
or eclipse the light of the values that we stand for.'

But Republicans say he was speaking generally and didn't specifically call the
Benghazi attack a terror attack until weeks later, with the president and other
key members of his administration referring at first to the anti-Muslim movie
circulating on the Internet as a precipitating event.

Last week, the State Department said that it never believed the 11 September
attack on the U.S. consulate was the result of a protest over an anti-Islam
movie, contradicting previous statements.

The White House now says the attack was probably carried out by an al
Qaida-linked group, with no public demonstration beforehand. Secretary of State
Hillary Rodham Clinton blamed the 'fog of war' for the early conflicting
accounts.

Issa's committee questioned State Department officials for hours about what
Republican lawmakers said was lax security at the consulate, given the growth of
extremist Islamic militants in North Africa.

Congressional aides are hoping to use Stevens' cables and information from State
Department testimonies to build a timeline of what the intelligence community
knew, compared to what the White House was telling the public about the attack.

VIDEO: Clinton takes responsibility for attack on Benghazi Consul:

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 22, 2012 Monday 2:37 PM GMT

Three terror suspects 'planned bigger attack than July 7 with eight suicide
bombs across the UK'

BYLINE: LARISA BROWN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1212 words



     ·    One man from Birmingham claimed the attack would be another 9/11
     ·    Suspects 'received training in Pakistan on how to use weapons, how to
          make bombs and poisons, and made suicide videos while they were there'
     ·    Irfan Naseer and Irfan Khaild 'bragged about making martydom videos'
     ·    Men 'posed as bogus charity collectors to raise money for training in
          terror'


Three terror suspects masterminded a plot to detonate eight suicide bombs and
cause mass deaths in an atrocity that could have been worse than the 7/7
bombings, a court has heard.

Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid and Ashik Ali, both 27, are accused of being
'central figures' in an extremist home-grown terror cell planning to target
crowded areas.

They posed as bogus charity collectors to raise money for training in terrorism
in Pakistan, where they learned how to use weapons and make improvised explosive
devices, it is alleged.

Speaking at Woolwich Crown Court, prosecutor Brian Altman QC said: 'The police
successfully disrupted a plan to commit an act or acts of terrorism on a scale
potentially greater than the London bombings in July 2005 had it been allowed to
run its course.

'The defendants were proposing to detonate up to eight rucksack bombs in a
suicide attack and/or to detonate bombs on timers in crowded areas in order to
cause mass deaths and casualties.

'One of them was even to boast the plan would be another 9/11.'

All the men are accused of engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist acts,
which they deny.

Naseer is accused of five counts of the offence, Khalid four and Ali three, all
between Christmas Day 2010 and September 19 2011,  jurors at Woolwich Crown
Court were told.

For Nasser, from Sparkhill, Khalid, from Sparkbrook, and Ali, from Balsall
Heath, all in Birmingham, this is alleged to have included planning a bombing
campaign, collecting money for terrorism and recruiting others for terrorism.

Nasser and Khalid are also accused of travelling to Pakistan for training in
terrorism, and it is alleged that Naseer also helped others to travel to the
country for the same purpose.

While in Pakistan, Naseer and Khalid received training in how to use weapons and
how to make bombs and poisons, and made suicide videos while they were there, it
is alleged.

They returned to the UK in July 2011, and it is claimed the group then began
trying to make home-made bombs, using a council flat in Sparkbrook as a
makeshift bomb factory.

They are alleged to have planned a series of explosions at unknown targets
across the UK from December 25, 2010 to September 19 last year.

In total, 11 men of Pakistani and Bangladeshi origin were arrested over the
alleged plot, and one woman.

Mr Altman told the jury that the three defendants were 'central figures' in the
plan, and that they are 'jihadists'. He called the trio 'senior members of a
home-grown terror cell'.

He said: 'These three defendants were the central figures in the plot, two of
whom had travelled to Pakistan for training in terrorism and they sought to
share and spread their knowledge on their return to this country.

'The defendants are jihadist, extremists influenced by the lectures of Anwar
al-Awlaki, a US born extremist of Yemeni descent.

'Al-Awlaki was killed on September 30 last year by a drone strike just 12 days
after these three were arrested.'

As well as taking part in terror training themselves, they also recruited others
for their jihad, the court heard.

Naseer has a degree in pharmacy and it is alleged that this knowledge helped the
plotters to try to make explosives.

Mr Altman said: 'It was Naseer's knowledge of chemistry, together with his
training as a terrorist in Pakistan, that allowed the defendants to experiment
in preparing an explosive mixture with a view to constructing a home-made
explosive device.'

Naseer, Khalid and Ali are also said to have worked with law graduate Rahin
Ahmed, 26, and others to fraudulently collect money for terrorism.

They told locals in Birmingham they were collecting for Muslim Aid and a local
Madrassah, a Muslim learning centre, as they pocketed £14,500.

But the two causes received only a fraction of the money they had collected,
prosecutors say, while the rest was intended to fund the attack plan.

Mr Altman said they were 'despicably stealing money from their own community
donated to charity'.

The gang tried to raise further funds by gambling the cash they raised from
their bogus charity collections through a currency trading company.

But the bungling gang lost £9,000 of their £14,500 stake they wagered through
online firm Forex.

Mr Altman told the court the trio also tried to recruit Mujahid Hussain, 21
Mohammed Rizwan, 31, and Ali's older brother, Bahader, 29 to their cause.

Warehouse workers, Shaaq Hussain, 20, and Khobaib Hussain, 20, along with Shahid
Khan, 21, a law student at the University of Wolverhampton, and unemployed
Naweed Ali, 24, were enlisted to travel to Pakistan so they too could attend a
terror training camp.

Dubbed the 'four travellers', they have all admitted their part in the terror
plot - despite the fact they never got to take part in any training.

The trio were arrested by police after covert probes caught them talking about
their plot as they were heating chemicals in Ali's home.

Naseer was heard drawing a list up of what they needed along with chemical
formulii for bomb-making.

Naseer and Khalid also bragged about making martydom videos in Pakistan, with
Naseer at one point allegedly recounting their last words to the others.

Mr Altman told the jury the three defendants had chosen to be terrorists.

'Each of the defendants made the deliberate decision to become a terrorist,
following, what they believed to be the right path dictated by their extreme
religious and ideological beliefs.

'Naseer and Khalid had made so-called martyrdom videos whilst at a training camp
in Pakistan, which remained behind in readiness for their own death.

'In them, as they were later to boast, recorded their reasons for committing the
acts of terror they were to develop on their return to the UK. which would have
been broadcast, had they blown themselves up, or been killed and killed others
with them.'

Mr Altman told the jury Ahmed had pleaded guilty to collecting and managing the
money.

'The three defendants original intention had been to bring Rahin Ahmed in on
what they planned to do.

'However, having lost a greater part of the charity money collected on the
streets of Birmingham, by unwise and incompetent commodities trading in Forex,
money the defendants considered theirs, they regarded Ahmed as having broken
their trust and so they cast him adrift.'

Mr Altman added that Naseer considered the money lost his and ordered Ahmed to
take out loans and sell his Honda Civic in order to repay the cash lost.

The jury were told that the 'four travellers' Shaaq Hussain, Khobaib Hussain,
Shahid Khan and Naweed Ali, as well as the fundraiser Mujahid Hussain, have all
pleaded guilty.

Mohammed Rizwan, and Ali's older brother Bahader all deny their involvement with
the terror cell.

Naseer denies five counts of engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist
acts.

Khalid denies four counts of engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist
acts and Ali denies three counts of engaging in conduct in preparation of
terrorist acts.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 22, 2012 Monday 2:06 AM GMT

Security forces foil '9/11 the second' al-Qaeda terrorist plot to kill thousands
with suicide attacks on shopping centres in Jordan

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 912 words



     ·    Al-Qaeda plot hatched since June targeted shopping centres and Western
          diplomats
     ·    Alleged conspirators codenamed attack '9/11 the second'
     ·    Suspects had detonated trial explosives, according to security sources
     ·    Terrorists 'planned to fire rockets' at U.S. and British diplomats in
          Jordan
     ·    Security service have arrested 11 suspects in connection with the plot
     ·    Large quantities of ammunition, machine guns and other items such as
          computers seize
     ·    Militants were 'training to use suicide bomber with explosive belts
          and booby-trapped cars', say security sources


A deadly terrorist attack designed to kill thousands which had been codenamed
'9/11 the second' by plotters has been foiled by Jordanian security forces, it
was claimed tonight.

Authorities say the al-Qaeda cell wanted to inflict 'the heaviest human losses
possible' with coordinated suicide strikes on shopping centres and Western
diplomats in the country's capital capital Amman.

Last night 11 suspects who planned on carrying out bombings using smuggled
weapons and explosives brought from Syria were in police custody, it is claimed.

Had the plot come to fruition, the death toll could have reached thousands and
destabalised the country's security and had been going on since June.

But intelligence agencies had been monitoring the conspiracy from day one,
Jordanian official said.

The country's state TV broadcast mugshots of the suspects - all in their 20s and
30s, all bar one wearing the same issue dark blue shirt, with most of them
sporting long beards - identifying them as 'militants'.

Announcing the foiled plot, government spokesman Sameeh Maaytah told an
impromptu press conference that the suspects are all Jordanian and are in police
custody.

'They were plotting deadly terror attacks on vital institutions, shopping
centers and diplomatic missions,' he said.

'They sought to destabilize Jordan,' he said. 'They plotted against Jordan's
national security.'

A statement by Jordanian intelligence said an investigation showed that the
group 'adopts the ideology of al-Qaida' and that it nicknamed its terror plot as
'9/11 the second' - a reference to the Amman hotel blasts, which happened on
Nov. 9, 2005.

Since June, the suspects have been surveying targets across the country,
bringing in rockets from Syria to use in the alleged plot, the statement said.

The militants sought to carry out their attacks in stages, it added, with
initial attacks on shopping centers and foreigners in Jordanian hotels, followed
by more deadly strikes with powerful explosives and chemicals on Western
diplomatic missions and unspecified 'vital national sites'.

One planned attack involved firing rockets at a district in the Jordanian
capital that houses the U.S., British and other diplomatic missions as well as
housing for expats and Western diplomats, it was claimed.

The statement said al-Qaida 'explosive experts' based in Iraq and elsewhere have
assisted the suspects with manufacturing home-made explosives.

The statement did not say when the suspects were arrested, but Maaytah - the
government spokesman - said Jordanian intelligence apprehended them in the past
few days.

'Their plans included getting explosives and mortars from Syria,' a security
source revealed.

A security source said the suspects had manufactured explosives 'aimed at
inflicting the heaviest losses possible'.

'The group was able to devise new types of explosives to be used for the first
time and planned to add TNT to increase their destructive impact,' said the
source.

The same security source said there was a crucial link with Syria where
President Bashar al-Assad is battling to put down an uprising against his
family's rule.

'Their plans included getting explosives and mortars from Syria,' the security
source told Reuters, saying the militants had sought to strike at a time of
regional upheaval when the country's security establishment is over stretched.

The authorities said they had seized large quantities of ammunition, machine
guns and other items such as computers.

The militants were training to use 'suicide bombers using explosive belts and
booby-trapped cars', said another security source.

Jordan is a key U.S. ally in the Middle East and Israel's peace partner.

The Arab kingdom has often been targeted by al-Qaeda and other Islamic
militants. It regularly arrests terror suspects and puts them on trial.

Government spokesman Sameeh Maaytah says the suspects are all Jordanian and are
in police custody.

He said the men had brought in arms from neighboring Syria to use them in the
alleged plot.

He also said al-Qaida operatives based in Iraq have been assisting the suspects
with manufacturing home-made explosives.

He said Sunday that Jordanian intelligence agents arrested the suspects in the
past few days.

Had the plot come to fruition, it is feared the death toll would have dwarfed a
recent car bombing in Beirut - also linked to the civil war torn neighbouring
country.

This is the latest incident to be linked to the spiralling violence spilling out
of neighbouring Syria.

Lebanon's prime minister said this week that a massive car bombing originated
from Syria.

The bomb exploded during rush hour in the mainly Christian district of Ashrafiya
killed eight including a top security official, and injured nearly 100 -
deadliest bombing in Beirut in four years.

Prime Minister Najib Mikati said the blast is linked to the intelligence chief's
recent case, in which he exposed an alleged plot by Syria to sow chaos in
Lebanon.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                              The Plymouth Herald

                            October 22, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mother tells of her terror after yobs' arson attack

BYLINE: STUART ABEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 303 words


A MOTHER-OF-FIVE has spoken of her terror after youths set fire to a bin bag on
her doorstep.

Arsonists lit the empty rubbish bag outside the home of 30-year-old Jolene Laing
in Laira.

A quick-thinking 13-year-old boy, visiting her son at the time, put out the fire
with a glass of water before any damage could be done.

But 30-year-old Jolene, who was in the house in Foxfield Close with the six
children on Saturday night, is worried the youths might return.

Police today appealed for information, saying that someone in the local
community must know about the arson.

Jolene, who has children aged from six months to 13, said: "It was terrifying.
My four-year-old has been in floods of tears but I have had to keep calm and
hide my own tears.

"I don't know how we could have got out of the enclosed back garden, especially
with me carrying the baby."

She said she heard loud banging on the door just before 10pm.

Jolene looked out of the window just as her eldest son opened the door to be
confronted with the burning bag on the step. She added she saw four youths
running away.

Jolene said: "My son's friend just got a glass of water and chucked it over the
fire. He was brilliant.

"The house was filled with the smell of burned plastic."

She is now going to contact landlords Devon and Cornwall Housing and try to get
a cage to cover her letter box.

Investigating officer Dc Brian Perry, of Charles Cross CID, said: "Someone in
the local community will know something about this. Someone will have talked.

"We want to prick people's consciences. We want them to think about how they
would feel if it happened to them."

He said the youths were wearing black and grey hooded tops and tracksuit
bottoms.

Anyone with information can contact the police in confidence on 101, quoting
crime number EC12/10130 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PLH


                       Copyright 2012 The Plymouth Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                      October 22, 2012 Monday 2:45 PM GMT

Terror plotters 'planned attacks bigger than July 7'

BYLINE: Times Staff

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 517 words


A trio of British Muslims spearheaded a plan to set off eight suicide bombs that
could have caused greater carnage than the July 7 London attacks, a court heard
today.

Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid and Ashik Ali, both 27, from Birmingham, are
accused of being "central figures" in the extremist plot, jurors at Woolwich
Crown Court were told.

"The police successfully disrupted a plan to commit an act or acts of terrorism
on a scale potentially greater than the London bombings in July 2005 had it been
allowed to run its course," Brian Altman, for the prosecution, said.

"The defendants were proposing to detonate up to eight rucksack bombs in a
suicide attack and/or to detonate bombs on timers in crowded areas in order to
cause mass deaths and casualties."

Mr Nasser and Mr Khalid are accused of travelling to Pakistan for training in
terrorism, and it is alleged that Mr Naseer also helped others to travel to the
country for the same purpose.

It is alleged that, while in Pakistan, Mr Naseer, a trained pharmacist, and Mr
Khalid received training in how to use weapons and how to make bombs and
poisons, and made suicide videos while they were there.

They returned to Britain in July 2011 and it is claimed that the group then
began trying to make home-made bombs, using a flat in Sparkbrook as their base.

All the men are accused of engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist acts,
which they deny. Naseer is accused of five counts of the offence, Khalid four
and Ali three, all between Christmas Day 2010 and September 19, 2011.

The charges against Mr Nasser, from Sparkhill, Mr Khalid, from Sparkbrook, and
Mr Ali, from Balsall Heath, all in Birmingham, include allegedly planning a
bombing campaign, collecting money for terrorism and recruiting others for
terrorism.

The group are also accused of making bogus charity collections in Birmingham for
Muslim Aid as well as a local Muslim centre.

However, the two causes received only a fraction of the money they had
collected, prosecutors say, while the rest was intended to fund the attack plan.
Mr Altman said they were "despicably stealing money from their own community
donated to charity".

Mr Naseer has a degree in pharmacy and this knowledge helped the plotters to try
to make explosives, the jury heard.

"It was Naseer's knowledge of chemistry, together with his training as a
terrorist in Pakistan, that allowed the defendants to experiment in preparing an
explosive mixture with a view to constructing a home-made explosive device," Mr
Altman said.

It is alleged that the group sent four other local men to Pakistan to receive
terrorist training - Naweed Ali, 25, and Ishaaq Hussain, Khobaib Hussain and
Shahid Khan, all 20.

They are also accused of persuading another two to take part in their plot
rather than fighting abroad - Mohammed Rizwan, 33, and Bahader Ali, 29.

Prosecutors claim that Rahin Ahmed, 26, was used as their financier but made a
series of bad investments and lost a chunk of their money, and added that
Mujahid Hussain, 21, was involved in fundraising.

All three men deny the charges. The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday

Romanian intelligence head denies threat of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 602 words


Text of report by Romanian newspaper Romania Libera website

[Unattributed report: "Melescanu: Romania Is Not Threatened by Imminent
Terrorist Attack Right Now"]

Romania is not threatened by any terrorist attack. There is no information to
account for an imminent attack in our country, despite the statements coming
from abroad about Romania, seen as a possible target of foreign attackers, SIE
[Foreign Intelligence Service] head Teodor Melescanu told the "After 20 Years"
program aired by Pro TV, Mediafax reports.

"In a way, Omar Bakri's statement is drawing our attention to the fact that
Romania is not immune to the danger of terrorist attacks. That is precisely why
the protection against terrorist attacks is among the SIE's priorities,"
Melescanu said on Sunday [ 22 October].

He stressed that the SRI plays the main part in counteracting terrorism, because
it involves activities carried out on Romania's territory. He stressed, however,
that the SRI cooperates with the SIE in terms of foreign intelligence.

"However, such statements, albeit coming from a person who is not a militant
directly involved in the organization of terrorist attacks, but rather an
ideologist of a particular form of Islamism, demonstrate that we are not immune
to the danger of such terrorist attacks," the SIE head said.

"We do not currently have, at least we have never conveyed, elements indicating
an imminent terrorist attack in Romania in the following period," Melescanu
added. He stressed that this is one of the "ultimate priorities" of his
organization.

As for the Burgas attack, in which a number of Israeli citizens lost their
lives, Melescanu said that he had two rounds of talks with the Bulgarian
intelligence heads during the past week, including on this topic.

"The Bulgarian authorities have not issued a final conclusion or report on the
persons involved and the circumstances that enabled the attack. They have a
number of investigation tracks. The investigation is underway. We are
cooperating with them. However, a final conclusion has not been reached,"
Melescanu explained.

"There are, nevertheless, a number of preliminary conclusions that can be drawn,
one of which is that this sort of attacks, exemplified by the Burgas attack,
represents a step forward in terms of terrorism. While until presently the
attacks were operations conceived and conducted by extremist organization,
especially from the Arab region, which occurred mainly in areas of maximum
exposure, for example the New York attack, this recent attack shows that we
might witness something new. First, such attacks do not occur in very large
countries with large media exposure, but in bordering European countries.
Secondly, it seems that persons from outside this area are not involved. It is
much easier to have suspicions when someone comes from a certain region. In this
case, it seems that these people are living at the European standards and are
free to move from one EU country to another. Thirdly, it seems that there were
no local links or connections at the domestic level. These elements are of
concern for us. We discuss them and examine them all the time. We want to
cooperate on these issues, as we have told our Bulgarian counterparts. For the
time being, however, there is no direct threat of any imminent attack against
Romania," Melescanu explained.

Islamist leader Omar Bakri said in an interview published by Bulgarian daily "24
ceasa" at the beginning of October that Bulgaria, Romania, as well as other
countries could be the target of terrorist attacks.

Source: Romania Libera website, Bucharest, in Romanian 22 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday

MP: Certain regional countries involved in southeast "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 406 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Tehran, 23 October: An MP sitting on the Majlis National Security and Foreign
Policy Committee said on Tuesday [23 October] that certain regional countries
were directly or indirectly involved in the terrorist attack in the port city of
Chabahar, in the southeastern Iranian province of Sistan-Baluchestan, on Friday
[19 October].   Mohammad Reza Mohseni-Thani, who had been sent by the
parliamentary committee to Chabahar to investigate the terrorist attack, also
said that the Jundullah and Ansar terrorist groups are supported by the spy
agencies of the US and Israel.

"These groups are given logistical support by the spy services of the Zionist
regime and take action in line with the policies of this illegitimate regime,"
said Mohseni-Thani, the representative of Sabzevar in the parliament.

He added, "Certain regional countries also had a hand in the Chabahar terrorist
incident directly and indirectly."

In the suicide attack in Chabahar, two Iranian citizens were killed and at least
six people were injured.  The Majlis security committee held a meeting on
Tuesday [23 October] in regard to the Chabahar attack. Representatives from the
ministries of intelligence, interior, defence, and police attended the meeting.

MP Mohammad Hasan A'safari told the Persian service of ISNA [Iranian Students
News Agency] that according to the investigations and explanations provided by
the ministries, it was concluded that the Chabahar attack was carried out by the
remnants of the Rigi group and with the support of a "regional country".

He said that it is necessary that the Iranian Foreign Ministry give warning to
the supporters of these terrorist groups.

A'safari also stated that over the past 19 months, more than 250 people
affiliated to the terrorist groups, who had tried to enter the country to carry
out terrorist actions, were either detained or killed.

"However, these groups again enter the country with the support of certain
neighbouring countries," he added.

A'safari attributed the terrorist attack in Chabahar to the Ansar group which he
said is seeking to wage a war between Shias and Sunnis.

On 15 December 2010, a suicide bomber also detonated an explosive device outside
a mosque in Chabahar during a Shi'i religious ceremony, killing at least 35
people and injuring more than 100 others.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 1755 gmt 23 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'BOMB PLOT TO KILL AND INJURE MORE THAN 7/7 TERROR ATTACK';
'Birmingham jihadists planned as much carnage as they could in the name of
Allah'

BYLINE: Nick McCarthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 941 words


THREE Birmingham men masterminded a suicide bombing campaign involving eight
simultaneous explosions in crowded places, a court has heard.

No target was set for the wouldbe rucksack bombers but they were allegedly
recorded bragging about planning 'another 9/11'.

Woolwich Crown Court heard that the 'Jihadists' had plotted to cause "as much
carnage as they could in the name of Allah".

The prosecution opened the case yesterday against Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid
and Ashik Ali, both 27, who deny all the terrorism charges.

The jury was told the unemployed men were secretly recorded by anti-terror cops
saying the attack would be bigger than 7/7, which killed 52 people.

The three are charged with engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist acts
between Christmas Day 2010 and September 19 2011.

Pharmaceutical graduate Naseer, from Doris Road, Sparkbrook, is charged with
five different offences. He was awarded a degree from Aston University in 2003
and was known as 'Big Irfan or Chubbs'.

Unemployed security guard Khalid, of Timbers Way, Sparkbrook, faces four counts
under section five of the Terrorism Act.

Former charity worker Ashik Ali, aged 27, from White Street, Sparkbrook, faces
three different offences.

Irfan Naseer and Irfan Khalid, are also alleged to have received terror training
in tribal areas of Pakistan in 2009 and again in 2011, where they were said to
have been schooled in the use of IEDs, firearms and poisons.

The two men are also accused of recruiting others for terrorism.

The three men are also all accused of trying to coordinate eight suicide bomb
explosions in the UK and fundraising for terrorism.

In one secret recording where the men discussed the 7/7 attacks on London,
Naseer allegedly said the bombers did not "cause enough damage" and should have
used nails as shrapnel to kill more people.

The three men were all arrested in Birmingham last November by officers from
West Midlands Police's Counter Terrorism Unit, along with eight other men and
one woman. The court heard that police had been watching them since July 2011
and had bugged a VW Passat and Honda Civic car with listening probes as well as
Ali's council flat in White Street, Sparkbrook.

Prosecutor Brian Altman QC told the court: "The police successfully disrupted a
plan to commit an act or acts of terrorism on a scale potentially greater than
the London bombings in July 2005, had it been allowed to run its course. The
defendants were proposing to detonate up to eight rucksack bombs in a suicide
attack and/or to detonate bombs on timers in crowded areas in order to cause
mass deaths and casualties."

Mr Altman added: "These three were the central figures in the plot. Two of them
(Naseer and Khalid) had been to Pakistan for training in terrorism in the (FATA)
Federally Administered Tribal Areas.

"They sought to share and spread their knowledge in Birmingham. They also
recorded martyr videos in Pakistan that would have been released after their
deaths."

Describing the defendants as motivated Jihadists, Mr Altman said they had been
influenced by the Yemeni-based extremist Anwar al-Awlaki, who was killed in a US
drone attack just 12 days after the men were arrested.

The jury were played recordings from al-Awlaki, which the prosecution say were
heard playing inside the house in White Street.

The court was told that videos that referred to the 9/11 attacks, the 7/7 London
bombings and Osama Bin Laden were also recovered from the men.

In referring to the 7/7 attacks, Naseer is allegedly picked up on recording
devices saying the attacks had "gone a bit wrong." He is said to have added:
"They didn't do much damage because they had forgotten to put nails in the
bombs."

Mr Altman said: "Each made a deliberate decision to become a terrorist following
what they believed to be the right path."

He also told the court that the three men had been instrumental in sending four
young Birmingham men to Pakistan for terror training.

The secret listening probes also picked up conversations where the three men
discussed a plan to fit blades onto a car and to drive them into groups of
people, Mr Altman said.

They also allegedly spoke about assault rifles, grenades and chemical mixtures
for explosive devices.

The men also bought a sport injury ice pack and were recorded trying to develop
a bomb by wrongly thinking it contained ammonium nitrate, the court was told.

Mr Altman claimed the men also talked about opening a Dawah Shop - for those
wanting to learn more about Islam - as a "beautiful cover" to recruit people for
terrorism.

The jury was told that the finer details of when the attacks would take place
and the intended targets had not been discussed before police made the arrests.

The trial continues and is expected to last eight weeks.

PROSECUTION'S ALLEGED TIMELINE ?March 2009Naseer and Khalid travel to Pakistan
for terror training from Birmingham Airport, returning to the UK in November;
?December 2010Naseer and Khalid travel back to Pakistan for terror training,
returning to UK in July 2011; ?July 2011West Midlands Police Counter Terrorism
Unit mount round-theclock surveillance operation on the group; ?July/August
2011Suspects collect cash on Coventry and Stratford Roads area under guise of
genuine Muslim Aid charity; ?August 2011Ishaq Hussain, Naweed Ali, Khobaib
Hussain and Shahid Khan travel to Pakistan, but all but Khan return within four
days; ?September 2011Naseer, Khalid and Ali discuss attack planning at 23 White
Street. Start to experiment with chemicals to make homemade explosive devices,
including contents of a sport injury ice pack.

October 2011Shahid Khan returns from Pakistan after staying with family.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Influence': Yemeni extremist Anwar al-Awlaki, who is now dead
Horror: The bus that was ripped apart by a bomb in London in 2005
security guard Irfan Khalid, who deny all the charges.
On trial: (from left) Former charity worker Ashik Ali, pharmaceutical graduate
Irfan Nasser, and unemployed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMM


               Copyright 2012 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday

Terror suspects 'planned worse attack than 7/7'

BYLINE: John Twomey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 553 words


THREE terrorist plotters planned to detonate eight suicide bombs at targets
across the UK in a worse atrocity than the London 7/7 attacks, a court heard
yesterday.

The men aimed to cause mass deaths and casualties by setting off explosives
hidden inside rucksacks, the jury was told.

One even claimed the 7/7 killers did not do a good enough job because they
failed to put nails and shrapnel in their devices, it was alleged.

Another allegedly told police he planned to wear a suicide vest as well as carry
a gun.

Inspired by Osama Bin Laden, the jihadists also discussed assault weapons such
as AK47s, the use of poisons and even considered fixing blades to the side of a
vehicle before driving into a crowd, a jury was told.

Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid and Ashik Ali, both 27, all from Birmingham, all
deny engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist acts.

Bragged The three are accused of being senior members of a home-grown terror
cell. Naseer and Khalid were said to have travelled to Pakistan for training in
how to make bombs and recorded martyrdom videos.

Back in the UK, they allegedly shared their knowledge with the third alleged
jihadist, Ali, and used his council flat in Birmingham as a makeshift bomb
factory.

Brian Altman, QC, prosecuting, told London's Woolwich Crown Court: "These young
men were all residents of this country and planned to commit acts of terrorism
on a scale potentially greater than the London bombings of July, 2005."

One cell member even bragged that their attacks would be "another 9/11", he
said.

"The defendants were proposing to detonate up to eight rucksack bombs in a
suicide attack and/or to detonate bombs on timers in crowded areas to cause mass
deaths and casualties," said Mr Altman.

The bomb plot was smashed by the counter-terrorism unit of the West Midlands
Police, the court heard. In total, police arrested 11 men of Pakistani or
Bangladeshi origin and a young woman.

The three accused men were said to be "jihadists" influenced by US-born
extremist Anwar al-Awlaki who was killed in a drone strike in Yemen 12 days
after they were arrested.

As well as Nasser and Khalid, four other Birmingham men were sent to Pakistan
for training while others were recruited to take part in the plot in the UK, it
was alleged. In a bid to fund their operations, the three men posed as charity
collectors on the streets of Birmingham and pocketed £14,500, the jury was told.
They were "despicably stealing money from their own community," said Mr Altman.
Attempts to raise further cash by gambling on foreign currency exchanges led to
a £9,000 loss, he went on.

Police arrested all three after covert probes recorded them talking about the
plot as they were heating chemicals at Ali's home, the jury was told.

Naseer, who has a pharmaceutical degree from Aston University, was heard drawing
up a list of what they needed along with chemical formulae for bombmaking.

Mr Altman said: "It was Naseer's knowledge of chemistry, together with his
training as a terrorist in Pakistan, that allowed the defendants to experiment
in preparing an explosive mixture with a view to constructing a home made
explosive device."

Ali joked to his estranged wife that she must think the plotters were like the
"Four Lions" - a reference to the bungling terrorists in the movie of that name,
the court heard.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Accused bomb plotters, from left, Irfan Khalid, Irfan Naseer and Ashik
Ali, who are alleged to have planned a wave of suicide attacks on targets across
Britain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      October 23, 2012 Tuesday 9:32 PM GMT

Public duped into donating over £12,000 to fund suspected terror attack planned
on Britain

BYLINE: David Wilcock

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1313 words


Members of the public were duped into donating thousands of pounds to fund a
massive suicide terror attack planned for Britain, a court heard today.

Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid and Ashik Ali, both 27, were among a group of men
who posed as collectors from the Muslim Aid (MA) charity, complete with T-shirts
and hi-vis tabards, to carry out street collections and door-to-door pleas for
cash in Birmingham and Leicester last year, their trial at Woolwich Crown Court
heard.

But the charity received just a fraction of the Ramadan collection cash in
August last year, with the vast majority being kept to finance the plot, the
jury was told.

Notes found by police suggested that they collected £12,100 but the court was
told they also lost £9,149.39 from their gains by using it to trade in foreign
currency over four weeks.

The court previously heard that the men, two of whom are alleged to have
received terror training in Pakistan, planned to detonate a series of suicide
bombs in an attack that could have been bigger than the July 7 2005 atrocities.

Today the jury heard that Ali registered two accounts on eBay's online charity
website "half in jest" in September 2006 with the user names "terrorshop" and
"shopterror", using the email address be-terroryahoo.co.uk.

Brian Altman QC, prosecuting, said that one of the accounts was closed down by
eBay in October 2006.

"The second account remains active, but, like the first, has never been used,"
he said.

"However, both reveal his mindset even then, even if the usernames he chose were
registered half in jest."

He said the men wore MA T-shirts and tabards to "beguile the public into
believing this was legitimate charity collecting, when it wasn't".

"That money was stolen and... was not intended by the defendants to be used for
any other legitimate purpose other than terrorism," he said.

Mr Altman said the collections took place soon after Naseer and Khalid returned
from terror training in the Taliban and al Qaida stronghold of Waziristan in
Pakistan at the end of July last year.

The charity had a licence for a single day's collecting, and it received £1,584
from the group at the end of August, the court heard, a fairly typical amount
for a day's collection.

In reality, the prosecution claimed, they illegally collected cash over a
sustained period, posing as Muslim Aid volunteers without its knowledge.

They donated £900 to the Madrasah-e-Ashraful Uloom school in Bordesley Green,
Birmingham, and kept the rest.

All the men are accused of engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist acts,
which they deny.

Naseer is accused of five counts of the offence, Khalid four and Ali three, all
between Christmas Day 2010 and September 19 last year.

For Naseer, from Sparkhill, Khalid, from Sparkbrook, and Ali, from Balsall
Heath, all in Birmingham, this is alleged to have included planning a bombing
campaign, collecting money for terrorism and recruiting others for terrorism.

Naseer and Khalid are also accused of travelling to Pakistan for training in
terrorism, and it is alleged that Naseer also helped others to travel to the
country for the same purpose.

The men talked about when they planned to carry out their suicide attack while
discussing their car's MOT, the court heard.

They were recorded talking about the VW Passat needing its new certificate in
June or July this year, when Khalid said "we're dead by then", adding "we're
probably out of here by next June, brother".

The covert recordings made by police after the men returned from Pakistan also
included fears that other members of their group had phoned relatives or friends
in the UK from the Asian country and spoken about why they were going over
there, the prosecution claims.

In the conversation, recorded in a car, the men talk about being imprisoned for
what they have done if it got out, under the "2005 Act" - an inaccurate
reference, the prosecution claimed, to the Terrorism Act 2006.

"It confirms that they knew full well what had been done was criminal," Mr
Altman added.

A little later, the court heard, one of the men's associates "light-heartedly"
said he cannot drive the car because he has angina. Naseer, who was described as
the group's "amir" (leader) replied: "(I) don't want to be Shaheed (a martyr)
yet yeah."

The three men on trial are accused of being "central figures" in the alleged
extremist plot, over which 11 men of Pakistani and Bangladesh origin and a woman
were arrested.

It is claimed that another four of the men were sent to Pakistan to receive
terrorist training - Naweed Ali, 25, and Ishaaq Hussain, Khobaib Hussain and
Shahid Khan, all 20.

Prosecutors say that Mohammed Rizwan, 33, and Bahader Ali, 29, were "wavering"
about whether to get involved in the plot or to go to fight with jihadis abroad.

Ahmed was allegedly used as the group's financier, and it is claimed that
Mujahid Hussain, 21, was involved in fundraising.

The court heard that Ahmed posed as a self-employed sales account manager with a
£99,000 annual salary to set up a foreign exchange trading account with Forex
Capital Markets Limited.

It was funded by seven payments totalling £14,550 from an account containing
charity collection money but he made big losses, the court heard.

The men talked about putting sharp blades on the front of a truck and "running"
into people, the court heard.

Recorded speaking on September 10, they discussed an idea for a weapon that had
been published in an outlawed extremist online magazine called Inspire under the
headline "The Ultimate Mowing Machine".

It was an article the prosecution said the defendants were clearly aware of.

Naseer said: "So Ashik, it feel like I've been driving a monster truck, you
know."

Khalid said: "Yeah and do what AQ (al Qaida) said, put that blades at the front
of it and trample on everyone."

He continued later: "Just drive it into people in (a) crowded area."

The men also discussed what would happen to their bodies after they had been
martyred in a suicide attack, the court heard.

In what the prosecution called a "very telling exchange", they discussed where
they would be buried in Birmingham while being watched by surveillance officers
driving through the Small Heath area of Birmingham on September 11 last year.

Khalid said: ""Nah, I'm just thinking... most likely it'll be Handsworth
(cemetery), if there's a body left."

Naseer replied: "One thing, one thing, remember, once that once you done, it
doesn't matter where you get buried, innit."

Mr Altman said: "The exchange puts beyond doubt that they were planning a
suicide attack."

Khalid and Naseer also talked about people "getting killed" in their local area
and how no one would come there any more because it would be a "little war
zone", the court heard.

Khalid was recorded saying: "This earth here ain't ever be the same, how these
people think that, all everyone's gonna be merry merry kuffar are gonna come and
eat and drink here, it's not gonna happen, because after we've done,
Insha'Allah, yeah, after later on, yeah."

He added: "These people are gonna be getting killed and that here, there's gonna
be little war zone, yeah."

In another conversation he described Westerners as evil, saying: "All I'm saying
is look how much hatred they have for Islam.

"That does make you go mad."

The men were recorded taking a large flatscreen television to their flat, on
which to watch violent videos.

They were also heard boasting that they had been contacted by a potential
"investor" who they hoped might give them up to £10,000.

A Dawah charity shop was going to be used as a cover to recruit more people to
their cause and they planned to set up charity stalls selling cakes and perfume
in Coventry, Leicester and Walsall.

Naseer was recorded talking about the September 11 al Qaida bombers and how they
increased their iman (faith) by "doing 10 (chapters of the Koran) a day", while
talking to an associate.

The trial continues tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2012 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Second Edition

'Like Four Lions - but there are only three of us';
Hapless 'terror cell' was recorded trying to plot attack more deadly than 7/7

BYLINE: PAUL PEACHEY Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1065 words


The ringleaders of a home-grown terror cell plotting a co-ordinated suicide
attack by eight militants carrying rucksacks stuffed with explosives were
secretly recorded, a court heard yesterday.

The Birmingham-based plotters discussed plans to blow themselves up or set off
bombs in crowded areas to cause "carnage in the name of Allah" that they hoped
would outstrip the death toll in the attacks on London in 2005, Woolwich Crown
Court heard.

Police bugging devices caught one of the men suggesting that the 7/7 strikes
seven years ago, which killed 52 people, had "gone a bit wrong" because the
suicide attackers had forgotten to put nails in the bombs to cause maximum
damage, said Brian Altman QC, for the prosecution.

"The intention was plainly to kill and injure people while achieving their own
martyrdom," said Mr Altman on the opening day of the trial.

Irfan Naseer, 31, a pharmacy graduate, and Irfan Khalid, 27, twice travelled to
terrorist training camps in Pakistan and when they returned sought to instruct a
third man, Ashik Ali, 27, about making bombs in his Birmingham flat, the court
heard.

The three, among 11 men and a woman rounded up by police officers from September
last year, were said to be central figures in the plot and were responsible for
recruiting others, planning the attack and raising money.

It emerged at the hearing that a police bugging device captured one of the
defendants telling his estranged wife she must think they were the "Four Lions"
- a reference to the British film about an incompetent group of home-grown
jihadis.

But, Ashik Ali is alleged to have added that they were one man short. His
comments came after the chief fundraiser, Rahin Ahmed, was "cast adrift" after
he lost £9,000 on the foreign currency exchanges. The plotters had intended to
bring him in on the plan but abandoned the idea after he lost the money, much of
which had been raised by going out with collecting buckets on the streets of
Birmingham.

The three defendants, who deny terrorist charges, were said to be inspired by
Osama bin Laden and Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born extremist killed in a
drone attack in the Yemen 12 days after the first of the arrests in Birmingham.
His lectures were found on computers at the flat that the trio used as a centre.

The court heard that Mr Naseer, known as "Chubbs" or "Big Irfan" and his fellow
traveller "Little Irfan" made martyrdom videos which they left in Pakistan ready
for release after carrying out their terror attack.

However, their plans were hampered by a string of setbacks. They included the
loss of £9,000 by their chief fundraiser because of "incompetent" trading on
foreign currency exchanges.

The money was raised illegally on the streets of Birmingham in the name of the
charity Muslim Aid. They planned to use some of it to set up an Islamic teaching
centre in Birmingham, which Mr Khalid described as a "beautiful cover" to
recruit men for jihad.

The court heard that the three defendants were placed under long-term
surveillance before the two Irfans returned from their second long trip to
Pakistan. Bugs were put in the house used as a bomb-making factory at White
Street, Birmingham, and two cars owned by Naseer and the fundraiser Rahin Ahmed,
who has already pleaded guilty to terrorist offences.

The three defendants were heard talking about killing people using guns, poison
and even by fixing blades to a vehicle and driving it into a crowd.

But the men returned to the idea of suicide bombings and setting homemade bombs
on timers because of the apparent difficulty of recruiting enough people to
carry out the attack.

"The defendants were proposing to detonate up to eight rucksack bombs in a
suicide attack and/or detonate bombs on timers in crowded areas," said Mr
Altman. The plot was broken up before they named any "iconic targets" and while
the defendants were suggesting the day of the attack was up to two years away,
the court heard.

B efore the arrests, the three men had been experimenting in the kitchen of Mr
Ali's flat to develop a device using the ingredients from a sports injury cold
pack which they wrongly believed contained ammonium nitrate. During police
interviews, Ashik confessed that the plot involved him wearing a suicide vest
and carrying a gun but he denied he would have carried out an attack.

Mr Ahmed, 26, has admitted supporting terrorism. He is yet to be sentenced and
the case continues.

BIRMINGHAM PLOTTERS

THE KEY PLAYERS

The 'central figures'

Irfan Naseer, Irfan Khalid and Ashik Ali

The three were the central figures in the suicide bomb plot with the two Irfans
twice travelling to Pakistan for terrorist training, according to prosecutors.
Mr Naseer, 31, a pharmacy graduate known as "Chubbs" or "Big Irfan" allegedly
used his technical knowledge and training when they experimented in making
explosives at 27-year-old Mr Ali's flat.

'The estranged wife'

Salma Kabal

Ashik Ali told his estranged wife Salma Kabal, 23, that there was no chance of
reconciliation because he planned to fight in a jihad abroad, the court heard.
She will go on trial at a later date for allegedly failing to tell authorities
about her husband's terrorist intentions. She has denied the charge.

'The travellers'

Ishaaq Hussain, Naweed Ali, Khobaib Hussain and Shahid Khan

The four travelled to Pakistan for terror training in August 2011 at the
instigation of Irfan Naseer, the court heard. However, three of them returned
within days after Shahid Khan, one of the three 19-year-olds on the trip,
"messed up" when he contacted his family and they were persuaded to return,
prosecutors say. All four have pleaded guilty to terrorism offences.

'The potential recruits'

Bahader Ali, Mohammed Rizwan, Mujahid Hussain

The three were allegedly targeted for recruitment by the defendants. Mr Ali, 29
- the older brother of Ashik Ali - and Mr Rizwan, 33, wavered between joining
the British plot or travelling abroad to fight, the court heard. Mr Hussain, 21,
has admitted terrorist offences. The other two men deny the charges and will go
on trial next year.

'The fundraiser'

Rahin Ahmed

The 26-law graduate was the terrorist cell's chief financier and has pleaded
guilty to conduct in support of terrorism. The three defendants intended to
bring him into the core group of plotters but he lost their trust after losing
£9,000 during incompetent dabbling on the foreign currency exchange markets, the
court heard.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Trio 'planned bigger terror attack on Britain than 7/7'

BYLINE: FRED ATTEWILL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 257 words


THREE would-be suicide bombers wanted to launch 'another 9/11' on Britain, a
court heard yesterday.

Inspired by radical clerics, the trio planned to detonate eight rucksack bombs
and timer bombs in crowded areas.

The 'home-grown' terror cell of Irfan Naseer, 31, and Irfan Khalid and Ashik
Ali, both 27, planned to use rocket launchers and attach knives to a car then
drive into a heavily crowded area.

They wanted to eclipse the 7/7 terror atrocities and recorded suicide videos in
Pakistan where they trained, it was claimed. The 'jihadis' stole nearly £14,000
cash from their local communities in Birmingham by posing as charity workers to
fund their plot.

Some of the 'despicable' thefts from fellow Muslims even took place during
Ramadan, prosecutors claim.

In Pakistan, Naseer and Khalid were taught how to use weapons and make bombs and
poisons.

When they returned to this country in July 2011, they set up a bomb factory, in
a council flat in Sparkbrook, said prosecutor Brian Altman QC opening the case.
He said they thought they would be rewarded with 72 virgins if they died
martyrs. The trio had not decided when the attacks would be carried out before
they were arrested by the West Midlands Counter Terrorism Unit in September last
year. Eleven men of Pakistani and Bangladeshi origin and one woman, who was the
estranged wife of one plotter, were arrested and charged with terror offences.
Some have since pleaded guilty but the three unemployed British-born defendants
deny 12 terror charges. The case at Woolwich crown court continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror accused 'plotted bigger attack than 7/7'

BYLINE: MIKE JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 467 words


TERRORIST plotters planned to detonate a series of suicide bombs in an attack
that could have been bigger than the July 7 atrocities, a court heard yesterday.

Irfan Naseer, 31, and Irfan Khalid, 27, travelled to Pakistan for terrorist
training before returning to the UK in July last year, jurors at Woolwich Crown
Court were told.

The two men, along with Ashik Ali, also 27, are accused of being "central
figures" in the alleged extremist plot.

Ali told police in interview that the plan had involved him wearing a suicide
vest as well as carrying a gun, the jury heard.

Prosecutor Brian Altman QC told the court: "The police successfully disrupted a
plan to commit an act or acts of terrorism on a scale potentially greater than
the London bombings in July 2005 had it been allowed to run its course. The
defendants were proposing to detonate up to eight rucksack bombs in a suicide
attack and/or to detonate bombs on timers in crowded areas in order to cause
mass deaths and casualties."

All the men are accused of engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist acts,
which they deny.

Naseer is accused of five counts of the offence, Khalid four and Ali three, all
between Christmas Day 2010 and September 19, 2011.

For Nasser, from Sparkhill, Khalid, from Sparkbrook, and Ali, from Balsall
Heath, all in Birmingham, this is alleged to have included planning a bombing
campaign, collecting money for terrorism and recruiting others for terrorism.
Nasser and Khalid are also accused of travelling to Pakistan for training in
terrorism, and it is alleged that Naseer also helped others to travel to the
country for the same purpose.

While in Pakistan, prosecutors claim Naseer and Khalid received training in how
to use weapons and how to make bombs and poisons, and made suicide videos while
they were there.

After they returned to Britain it is claimed the group then began trying to make
home-made bombs, using a flat in Sparkbrook as their base.

The group are also accused of making bogus charity collections in Birmingham for
Muslim Aid as well as a local Muslim centre. But the two causes received only a
fraction of the money collected, prosecutors say, while the rest was intended to
fund the attack plan.

In total, 11 men of Pakistani and Bangladeshi origin were arrested over the
alleged plot, and one woman.

It is claimed that another four of the men were sent to Pakistan to receive
terrorist training - Naweed Ali, 25, and Ishaaq Hussain, Khobaib Hussain and
Shahid Khan, all 20. Prosecutors say that Mohammed Rizwan, 33, and Bahader Ali,
29, were "wavering" about whether to get involved in the plot or to go to fight
with jihadis abroad.

Rahin Ahmed, 26, was allegedly used as the group's financier, and it is claimed
that Mujahid Hussain, 21, was involved in fundraising. The trial continues
today.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ From the left Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid and Ashik Ali, 27,
accused of being central figures in an extremist plot

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror suspects planned a 'bigger attack than July 7'

BYLINE: MARGARET DAVIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 470 words


Terrorist plotters planned to detonate a series of suicide bombs in an attack
that could have been bigger than the July 7 atrocities, a court heard. Irfan
Naseer, 31, and Irfan Khalid, 27, travelled to Pakistan for terrorist training
before returning to the UK in July last year, jurors at Woolwich Crown Court
were told. In one conversation, Naseer was heard agreeing that the July 7
attacks had not done enough damage because there were no nails in the bombs.

The two men, along with Ashik Ali, also 27, are accused of being "central
figures" in the alleged extremist plot.

Ali told police in interview that the plan had involved him wearing a suicide
vest as well as carrying a gun, the jury heard. The group also discussed the use
of poisons and attaching blades to the side of a vehicle before driving it into
a crowd of people, it is claimed.

Prosecutor Brian Altman QC told the court: "The police successfully disrupted a
plan to commit an act or acts of terrorism on a scale potentially greater than
the London bombings in July 2005 had it been allowed to run its course.

"The defendants were proposing to detonate up to eight rucksack bombs in a
suicide attack and/or to detonate bombs on timers in crowded areas in order to
cause mass deaths and casualties."

All the men are accused of engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist acts,
which they deny.

Naseer is accused of five counts of the offence, Khalid four and Ali three, all
between Christmas Day 2010 and September 19 2011.

For Nasser, from Sparkhill, Khalid, from Sparkbrook, and Ali, from Balsall
Heath, all in Birmingham, this is alleged to have included planning a bombing
campaign, collecting money for terrorism and recruiting others for terrorism.
Nasser and Khalid are also accused of travelling to Pakistan for training in
terrorism, and it is alleged that Naseer also helped others to travel to the
country for the same purpose.

While in Pakistan, prosecutors claim Naseer and Khalid received training in how
to use weapons and how to make bombs and poisons, and made suicide videos while
they were there.

After they returned to Britain it is claimed the group then began trying to make
home-made bombs. The group are also accused of making bogus charity collections
in Birmingham for Muslim Aid as well as a local Muslim centre.

But the two causes received only a fraction of the money they had collected,
prosecutors say, while the rest was intended to fund the attack plan.

Mr Altman said they were "despicably stealing money from their own community
donated to charity".

In total, 11 men of Pakistani and Bangladeshi origin were arrested over the
alleged plot, and one woman.

The court heard that the group had brought a sports injury cold pack, wrongly
believing it contained a chemical that could be used in bomb making.

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday

Nigeria denies terrorist attack on flight

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 244 words


ABUJA - The Nigerian government on Tuesday said there was no terrorist attack on
an Arik Air flight from northeast Maiduguri to Abuja, the nation's capital city.

Minister of Aviation Stella Oduah disclosed this in a statement reaching Xinhua,
saying that the rumor making the rounds of a bomb scare on an Arik airline
flight from Maiduguri to Abuja is absolutely false.

"In fact, it is a hoax as there is no iota of truth whatsoever in this rumor,"
the minister said.

According to her, a passenger, Aminu Galadima, from northern Niger State,
boarded an Abuja-bound Arik Air flight from Maiduguri, adding that mid air, he
began to act strangely and screaming "God is great".

She said other passengers, alarmed by his behavior, rushed to apprehend him.

After going through all mandatory security screening nothing incriminating, no
explosives or weapons whatsoever were found on him, the minister said.

Oduah said though a thorough search by fellow passengers and crew members
revealed nothing dangerous on him, the pilot radioed Air Traffic Control and
airport security operatives.

The suspect was handed over to officials of the State Security Service and he is
currently being interrogated, she added.

The minister assured the public that the Ministry of Aviation was working
tirelessly on the safety and security of passengers, airports and the airspace.

She urged Nigerians to desist from spreading dangerous rumors that could create
fear in air travelers and the public.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 24, 2012 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'PLOTTERS' MOWING MACHINE OF TERROR';
Blades on truck to attack crowd, court told

BYLINE: TOM WELLS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 250 words


THREE would-be terrorists plotted to use a truck welded with KNIVES to mow down
innocent people, a court heard yesterday.

The trio's plan involved mounting butchers' blades on the front of the vehicle
before driving it into a crowd, it was claimed.

They allegedly got the idea from a banned extremist web magazine called Inspire.
In it a fanatic had dubbed the invention "The Ultimate Mowing Machine".

Irfan Naseer, 31, Irfan Khalid and Ashik Ali, both 27, are accused of planning
"another 9/11". The court heard police bugs caught Khalid telling Naseer: "Do
what AQ (al-Qaeda) said, put that blades at the front of it and trample on
everyone ...

"You know what they said, the brothers in the magazine, they said, stick thingy
on ... At the front. Like you know, erm, a blade ... Yeah weld it on and run
into people."

Naseer replied: "Butcher's knife and that."

Khalid responded: "Just drive it into people in crowded area." The men had spent
months plotting a wave of eight suicide bombings, gun and grenade attacks,
Woolwich Crown Court in South-East London heard.

The alleged terror cell raised thousands of pounds by posing as street charity
collectors. It was claimed Naseer and Khalid had both learnt bomb-making skills
at a training camp in Pakistan.

Naseer, Khalid and Ali, all from Birmingham, deny a total of 12 counts of
engaging in conduct in preparation of terrorist acts.

Four other people have admitted being part of the plot, while three deny
involvement. The trial continues.

t.wells@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Accused ... Naseer, Khalid and Ali

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     October 24, 2012 Wednesday 6:24 PM GMT

E-mails show terrorist claimed Benghazi attack 2 hours after assault

BYLINE: Nico Hines, Washington

SECTION: US & AMERICAS

LENGTH: 559 words


Leaked State Department e-mails show that officials were informed of terrorist
links to the attack on Benghazi just two hours after the assault.

The Obama Administration was told that Ansar al-Sharia, a group with links to
al-Qaeda, had claimed responsibility for the assault on its Facebook page and on
Twitter, on the night of the raid which killed four Americans including the US
ambassador, Chris Stevens.

E-mails confirm that officials at the White House, State Department, Pentagon
and FBI were advised about the alleged al-Qaeda links immediately, yet they
continued to claim that the attack was part of a wave of protests in response to
an offensive YouTube video.

Mitt Romney has attempted to make political capital out of the Administration's
confused response to the attacks in Libya but he misfired on both occasions.
John McCain, the former presidential nominee, has been more successful in making
the case. He said it suited the White House to blame a video while the President
was campaigning on the successful operation to kill Osama bin Laden and the
destruction of the upper echelons of al-Qaeda.

Jay Carney, the White House spokesman, conceded that the e-mails were genuine
but said claims on Facebook and Twitter did not constitute solid intelligence.
The group also denied responsibility for the attack the next day.

"There was a variety of information coming in," he said. "The whole point of an
intelligence community and what they do is to assess strands of information and
make judgments about what happened and who was responsible."

In the aftermath of the attack, Mr Carney was among the Administration spokesmen
who cited an unclassified assessment prepared by the CIA and maintained that the
attacks were probably a spontaneous protest against an anti-Islamic film.

While officials did mention the possible involvement of "extremists," they did
not blame any specific militant groups or possible links to al-Qaeda or its
affiliates until intelligence officials went public on September 28.

The records consist of three e-mails dispatched by the State Department's
Operations Centre to multiple government offices.

The first e-mail, timed at 10.05pm Benghazi time, about 20 minutes after the
attack on the US diplomatic mission had begun, was titled "U.S. Diplomatic
Mission in Benghazi Under Attack".

The message said the State Department's regional security office had reported
that the diplomatic mission in Benghazi was "under attack. Embassy in Tripoli
reports approximately 20 armed people fired shots; explosions have been heard as
well".

A second e-mail, informed Washington that the attack was over and staff were
attempting to locate the ambassador and his security detail.

By the third message, which was sent two hours after the first, there was an
alleged perpetrator of the fatal attack. The e-mail's subject line read: "Ansar
al-Sharia Claims Responsibility for Benghazi Attack."

Inside it continued: "Embassy Tripoli reports the group claimed responsibility
on Facebook and Twitter and has called for an attack on Embassy Tripoli."

Speaking today, Hillary Clinton said such information was hardly decisive. "You
know, posting something on Facebook is not in and of itself evidence," she said.

The Secretary of State claimed last week that she was ultimately responsible for
any mistakes that were made by her staff in the field.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 25, 2012 Thursday

Basij member killed in terrorist attack in southeast Iran - agency

LENGTH: 84 words


Text of report by semi-official Iranian Students News Agency (ISNA) website

Tehran, 25 October: A teacher in Sarbaz Township, Sistan-Baluchestan Province
was killed in a terrorist attack.

According to ISNA, the Education Department of Sistan-Baluchestan Province
reported: "Mohammad Salami, a valuable teacher and member of Basij [volunteer
forces] in the province's Sarbaz Township, was killed in a terrorist and inhuman
attack yesterday [24 October]."

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 0643gmt 25 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 25, 2012 Thursday

Egypt condemns "terrorist" attack on Sudan ammunition factory

LENGTH: 229 words


Text of report by state-owned Sudanese radio on 25 October

First Vice-President of the Republic Ali Uthman Muhammad Taha, today held a
telephone conversation with the Egyptian Prime Minister Dr Hisham Qandil, on
Israel's heinous aggression against Sudan and its air strike of Al-Yarmuk Arms
Factory Complex.

During the telephone conversation, Dr Qandil reiterated the support of the
Egyptian government and people to Sudan, while condemning the attack.

Meanwhile, Taha also received a telephone call from deputy general guide of the
Muslim Brotherhood Mahmud Izzat regarding the same issue, who condemned the
heinous aggression and declared solidarity with Sudan.

It is worth noting that, the Egyptian Foreign Ministry has issued a statement
condemning the terrorist attack on Al-Yarmuk factory and expressed Egypt's total
rejection of any aggression against Sudan targeting its sovereignty, territory
and stability. The statement also declared Egypt's total solidarity with the
government and the people of Sudan in confronting this ugly aggression and
conveyed condolence to the Sudanese people and the victims families who died
during the attack.

The Egyptian Foreign Ministry also expressed its readiness to cooperate with
Sudan to investigate the attack and establish the truth and details about it.

Source: Republic of Sudan Radio, Omdurman, in Arabic 1300 gmt 25 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                           October 25, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

OUR TERROR IN CAR ARSON ATTACK;
Dozen cases may be linked ; Police set up special team to catch car firebugs

BYLINE: COLLEEN SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 516 words


A FAMILY have spoken of their terror after being caught in a string of Torquay
arson attacks which police say may be linked.

The Shimali family fear they could have been killed after an arsonist set fire
to both their cars on their driveway, trapping them in their house as it started
to burn.

Mrs Zara Shimali (pictured) had to drag her disabled husband out bed and hide
behind the house as flames leapt into the sky. They were terrified the cars' p e
t ro l tanks would explode. Police have revealed they have set up a special
arson team of detectives to investigate around a dozen arson attacks on cars in
the Warberry and Ellacombe areas of the town. They are appealing for the public
to be vigilant and help them catch the arsonists. On Monday, October 22, a car
was set on fire close to Clarendon Court flats in Stitchill Road. The following
night the same car was again set alight. Twenty minutes later Torquay firemen
were called to the Shimali's home in Warberry Road West. The family's two cars,
a white Citroen Saxo and black Vauxhall Astra, were completely destroyed. The
previous week fire crews had been called to another car arson in Warberry Road
West. Watch manager Tony Collier said: "Burning fuel was running down the drive
towards us." Mrs Shimali said: "It was horrible. I am very shaken.

"I keep thinking over and over again what would have happened if I didn't wake
up? "We were sleeping. I heard a noise and looked out of the window and saw
flames. "I couldn't believe my eyes. I called the fire brigade. "By the time
they arrived the flames were horrible. They were up to the sky. It was very,
very high. It was so scary. "The cars were both on fire by then. "My car had
more than half a tank of petrol and I was afraid it would exp lode. "The house
was starting to catch fire and we couldn't escape because the cars were blocking
the drive. We had to hide behind the house. "My husband has Parkinson's disease.
I had to drag him. "The wooden conservatory and the plastic pipes were melting
and starting to catch fire. If I hadn't phoned the fire brigade, what would have
happened? "We could have been killed. "I believe we really had a lucky escape. "

Acting Det Insp Chris Yarwood said: "We are aware that this has been going on
for some time now. "There have been probably more than a dozen that could be
linked in the year. It started in January and it has been happening in batches,
stopping and then starting up again. "CID officers are investigating. There is a
team here who are working on it and we are putting resources into the
investigation. We've got lines of inquiry to follow up and we are doing some
work. "We want to urge the public to be vigilant and to help us detect these
offences, both by reporting anything suspicious, and by taking protective steps
to try to prevent further fires. "I don't want to scare people, because some of
those cars were derelict. But we are treating this very seriously. "They can
help by parking their cars on a driveway if possible, and things like security
lights will deter offenders. Our biggest concern is public safety."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HET


                         Copyright 2012 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                           October 25, 2012 Thursday

Threat of Irish terror attack on mainland falls

LENGTH: 141  words


The threat from Northern Ireland-related terrorism has been downgraded from
substantial to moderate, meaning an attack is possible but unlikely, the Home
Secretary has said.

Theresa May said the threat level to Great Britain is being reduced, but the
threat to Northern Ireland remains at severe, meaning an attack there is highly
likely.

The threat from international terrorism, however, remains substantial, meaning
an attack is a strong possibility, she added.

In a written statement to MPs, Mrs May said an Irish terrorist attack "was
possible, but not likely".

"The threat level to the UK from international terrorism remains at substantial,
which means that an attack is a strong possibility," she said. "The threat level
to Northern Ireland from Northern Ireland-related terrorism remains at severe,
meaning that an attack is highly likely."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2012 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 27, 2012 Saturday

Lebanese Hezbollah said plots terrorist attacks against Thailand Jewish centers

LENGTH: 313 words


Text of report by Kuwaiti newspaper Al-Siyasah website on 25 October

[Unattributed "exclusive" report: "Hezbollah Plans To Bomb Jewish Centres in
Thailand"]

Based on information received from the intelligence service in Thailand, Western
intelligence sources have revealed to Al-Siyasah that the authorities in Bangkok
believed that the weapons that were found a few days ago near one of the Jewish
centres in the city known as Chabad Centre were intended for carrying out a
terrorist operation by the Lebanese Hezbollah against the centre.

The sources stated that the Thai authorities are closely following up, in
cooperation with the Western intelligence services, the evidence and moves
indicating the possibility of terrorist operations by Hezbollah against Western
or Jewish centres in Thailand. The sources pointed that last December this
follow-up resulted in arresting one of Hezbollah leaders Husayn Atris in
Thailand a few days before carrying out terrorist attacks. He is still under
arrest awaiting the completion of the trial proceedings.

The sources added that the Thai authorities are working closely with the Western
intelligence agencies to track the activities of Hezbollah. They are collecting
intelligence information and following the moves of its operational personnel
and of those in charge of preparing the infrastructure for the terrorist
operations and providing logistical support. They [the authorities and
intelligence agencies] are also working on responding to such activities by
strengthening the protection and security measures around the places that may be
the target of these terrorist operations.

The sources noted that the Thai authorities are adopting exceptional procedures
to enhance the security measures at all the border crossings, particularly the
smaller ones located in remote areas.

Source: Al-Siyasah website, Kuwait, in Arabic 25 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 27, 2012 Saturday

Three Iranian pilgrims killed, 16 wounded in "terrorist attack" in Iraq

LENGTH: 96 words


Three Iranians were killed and 16 wounded in a "terrorist attack" in Samra, Iraq
on a minibus with Iranian pilgrims on board, Iran's news channel IRINN reported
on 27 October.

A TV presenter quoted a report of the officials of Hajj and Pilgrimage
Organization as saying that "these pilgrims had intended to arrive in Bagdad to
visit Holy Shrines from Kashan [Iran's Esfahan Province], separate to the Hajj
caravan".

"General condition of the injured pilgrims is satisfactory," the report added.

Source: Islamic Republic of Iran News Network, Tehran, in Persian 1230 gmt 27
Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 27, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Concentrate on cyber attacks, not terrorism, Osborne tells spy chiefs

BYLINE: James Kirkup; Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 526 words


BRITISH intelligence agencies' counterterrorism work could be scaled back after
an intervention from George Osborne.

The Chancellor is understood to have pushed MI5 and MI6 to consider devoting
more money and manpower to defending Britain from cyber attacks and espionage
from countries such as China.

However, senior ministers and officials are resisting pressure from the
Treasury, warning that cutting counter-terrorism spending is too much of a risk.

MI6, the Secret Intelligence Service, is said to be fighting a fierce rearguard
action against any move to reallocate its counter-terrorism resources. Theresa
May, the Home Secretary, is also said to be cautious about relaxing Britain's
defences against extremist attacks.

Senior sources have disclosed that Mr Osborne has asked agency chiefs if,
following the London Olympics, Britain's spending on intelligence should be
shifted significantly away from counterterrorism.

The Chancellor is understood to have asked them to consider how current spending
decisions might look in the coming decades, suggesting future generations might
question why today's leaders did not devote more resources to cyber security.

His intervention, at a meeting of the National Security Council in the summer,
is understood to have inflamed a row within Whitehall about the intelligence
agencies' future priorities. MI5, MI6 and GCHQ are all under growing pressure to
do more to defend British interests from internet-based attacks.

The Intelligence and Security Committee of senior MPs and peers this year said
it was "concerned that much of the work to protect UK interests in cyberspace is
still at an early stage" and suggested the work should be stepped up urgently.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, this week told The Daily Telegraph that he
saw evidence daily showing "deliberate, organised attacks" against corporate and
government networks from "cyber criminals or foreign actors".

However, the agencies are said to be at odds over how much to spend on
internet-based work, who should pay, and which agency should take the lead.

One Whitehall source described the situation as "a typical Whitehall turfwar",
warning that the disputes could hamper the agencies' bid for funding in the next
spending round. The combined budget for the intelligence agencies will be
£2.1billion in 2014-15, a cut of 7 per cent over four years.

Mr Osborne's challenge over terrorism is his second major intervention on
security issues in recent months. Earlier this month, The Daily Telegraph
disclosed that he had helped force military commanders to draw up plans for a
faster British withdrawal from Afghanistan.

James Brokenshire, the security minister, declined to comment on discussions at
the NSC, but said that intelligence offi-cials "constantly examine" new and
emerging threats to the UK.

He said: "Clearly, national security is the absolute priority for any government
and therefore we will always ensure that national security receives sufficient
funding.

"Does that mean that we shouldn't constantly innovate and look at ways in which
we can be more effective? No, it does not. But clearly that underlying
responsibility remains."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 28, 2012 Sunday 4:31 AM GMT

11 members of Indonesian terrorist group arrested in plot to attack the U.S.
embassy

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 275 words


Indonesian police arrested 11 people suspected of planning a series of terrorist
attacks on targets in Indonesia, including the U.S. embassy, official announced
Saturday.

'We discovered some explosive materials, a guidebook to assemble bombs, some
ammunition and detonators,' police spokesman Suhardi. Alius told  reporters.

The suspects were allegedly members of a new group called Haraqah Sunni for
Indonesian Society, or Hasmi.

U.S. State Department spokesperson confirmed to  NBC News that they had seen
Indonesian authority's reports on the alleged plots, but declined further
comment as it was an ongoing security investigation.

'They were targeting the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta, U.S. Consulate General in
Surabaya, Plaza 89 near the Australian Embassy, the office of Freeport in
Jakarta, and headquarters of the police mobile brigade in Central Java,' Alius
said.

It was unclear how far the plans had advanced. A spokesman for the U.S. and
embassy in Indonesia said he had no comment on the arrests.

Earlier this month, Indonesian authorities warned that terrorists may have been
preparing to attack dignitaries on the island of Bali to commemorate the 10th
anniversary of the deadly attacks on the resort in 2002.

The Oct. 12 date passed without incident.

Most terrorist groups caught plotting in recent years have primarily targeted
Christians and other religious minorities, but authorities said these recent
arrests are a sign that new groups are focusing on the United States.

"It seems that their leaders find it easier to [find support] if they target the
U.S. and the [Indonesian] police and government rather than other religions,"
Alius said.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 29, 2012 Monday

"Terrorists" planning attacks in Kenya - report

LENGTH: 769 words


Text of report by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 29 October

Terrorists have planned simultaneous attacks on multiple targets in Mombasa,
according to the latest intelligence information collected by security
operatives in the country.

The attacks are said to be a continuation of plans by Fuad Abubakar Manswab and
John Germain Grant who were arrested by detectives and charged with being in
possession of explosives. The heinous plans were disrupted by the country's
security agents in December 2011.

The plans were discovered after anti-terror detectives found a broken mobile
phone and eight watches in a house that was raided by police on October 16 as
timers on the explosives. Detectives suspect that these would have been attached
to explosives.

"Also found in the house was about 20 grams of a chemical substance which when
tested was found to contain butane and disodium sulphate. Butane is highly
explosive material while sodium sulphate may be used to assemble sodium bomb.
There is need to enhance security within the affected areas to counter the
schemes of terrorists," the top secret intelligence report says.

One of the suspects Fuad, who was released on bond, revealed four weeks ago that
he and his accomplices planned to carry out major attacks that would cripple
rescue efforts after the major attacks.

The attackers plan to use suicide bombers and explosives-laden vehicles for big
targets and sporadic grenades attacks to cause confusion and panic to security
agencies and rescue operations that respond to the before simultaneous attack.

Security agencies have since established that the fist attack will be led by
Hassan Omondi Owiti aka Budalangi alias but this will be for distracting
security agents only to be followed by simultaneous attacks led by Fuad Manswab
which have been planned since September.

Detectives have, however, not established the period between the first and
second attacks. The attacks are planned to be carried out by two groups that
have been operating in Mombasa and are currently working together.

Intelligence briefs have revealed that the first group which has been in the
past linked to the recent grenade and Improvised Explosive Device attacks in the
country is led by a Kenyan identified only by his alias as Maalim Khalid.

The groups is comprised of Tua Ibrahim Jibril aka Tafa alias Tua ka Zarqawi who
led a team of terrorists in grenade attacks in December 2011.

Although he was arrested and is currently in police custody in connection with a
series of violent robberies within the city to raise funds for he planned
attacks, he continues to pose a great threat. Another member is Bilal Said aka
Jalash who still remains at large in Mombasa although detectives have circulated
his profile.

Owiti aka Budalangi alias Budapest whom police recently circulated his pictures
in the media as a wanted person is another member. He reportedly escaped from a
police dragnet during the October 16 2012 raid in Mombasa and is still planning
other terror attacks.

Police have since established that the man who presented himself to Mombasa
police is not the Owiti being sought by the anti-terror unit.

Another member of the terror group is Kennedy Mugambi Mwirigi aka Amar who is
wanted in connection with the Ngara House of Miracles Church attack in April
2012. He too I believed to e in Mombasa planning the multiple attacks.

The six member of this group is Swaleh Musyoki aka Karoboto alias David Lennox
who was arrested and is in police custody in connection with armed robberies in
Nairobi.

He is reported to have come back to Kenya from Somalia in August 2012 and has
been helping the groups raise funds for the attacks. Another is Shaban Namusenda
Makotse who is currently on police wanted list.

The group also boasts the membership of Thabit Jamaldin Yahya who detectives
claim was involved in the attack on Bella Vista club in Mombasa on 15 May 2012.

It has since been established that although he is in custody at the Shimo La
Tewa prison, he continues to receive messages from his accomplices.

Intelligence reports have since revealed that his accomplices had at one time
planned to rescue him from prison. Other group members include, a Rama former
cook for the late Saleh Nabhan an Jamal Msanii.

The second group is led by Fuad and comprises of Suleiman Nabha aka Gogo Khalid
Mohammed Said Hassan Suleiman Mwayuyu, Kassam Omolo and others who are only
identified by nicknames such as Mzee, Khailil, Mouse, Nikos who is believed to
be the explosives assembler and the user of mobile phone number 0732937605.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 29 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            October 29, 2012 Monday

Family terror as group attacks home

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 236 words


The incident occurred at about 12.45am yesterday at a house in Ennis, Co Clare,
which is known to have been targeted previously.

The windows of a car parked outside the house were smashed before the gang
turned their attention to the downstairs windows, breaking most of them also.

The gang roared abuse at the occupants before fleeing the scene.

Gardaí were called but the gang had already left in a car by the time they
arrived.

Nobody was injured in the incident but the family was said to have been shaken
by the attack.

The damaged vehicle was removed from the house for a technical examination while
gardaí returned later in the morning to the speak to the occupants.

A Garda crime scene examiner also visited the house while it is understood that
a pick-axe handle was recovered from the garden of the house.

According to one neighbour: "There were a number of men and you could hear them
shouting but no one went out to see what was going on.

"You could hear the smashing and they shouted some things before taking off
again.

"It went on for a few minutes and while it's awful to see this kind of thing
happening in your neighbourhood, it must have been terrifying for the children
in the house."

The semi-detached home, occupied by a man, his partner and their young girls,
was targeted in a similar incident in the early hours of last New Year's Day.

Gardaí are continuing their investigation into the latest incident.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      October 29, 2012 Monday 5:48 PM GMT

Fury over NYU course which asks students to 'step into a terrorist's shoes and
plan terror attack'

BYLINE: MATT BLAKE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 490 words



     ·    The course asks students to factor in logistics, funding and how many
          terrorists they would need
     ·    It asks for 'goals, capabilities, tactical profile, targeting pattern
          and operational area'
     ·    It is run by former Navy criminal investigator Marie-Helen Maras
     ·    NYPD sources claim it 'flies in the face of 11 years of hard work' the
          department has done to prevent terror
     ·    Maras says nobody has complained and she even has NYPD officers on the
          course


New York University has sparked outrage after offering a course in which
students are asked to 'plan a terrorist attack'.

The programme, which is taught by former Navy criminal investigator Marie-Helen
Maras, instructs the students to 'step into [a terrorist's] shoes' and write a
10 to 15 page report on how they would attack the U.S.

'In your paper, you must describe your hypothetical attack and what will happen
in the aftermath of the attack,' the syllabus, obtained by the New York Post,
says.

Having pinpointed their terror group of choice, the students are told to factor
in how they would carry out the attack, where they would source funding and how
many terrorists they would need.

They must also highlight their 'goals, capabilities, tactical profile, targeting
pattern and operational area', in the blueprint.

Should any of the students' plan fall into the wrong hands, each page contains
the words, 'this is a hypothetical scenario for a university course on
transnational terrorism'.

News of the course has spread fury through New York's police department where a
source told the New York Post it 'flies in the face of 11 years of hard work'
the department has done to prevent terrorism.

'Some of the most notorious terrorists, including Anwar al-Awlaki, got their
start on American campuses,' an outraged law-enforcement expert on terrorism
told the New York Post.

'It looks like after the CIA killed al-Awlaki, NYU is helping to produce
successors.'

U.S.-born radical al-Awlaki was widely believed to be the architect of a number
of terror atrocities and the leader of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula before
he was killed in a U.S. drone attack in Yemen last year.

He attended Colorado State University and mentored three 9/11 hijackers, Fort
Hood shooter Nidal Malik Hasan and 'underwear bomber' Umar Farouk Adbulmutallab.

Other terrorists to have received American educations include 9/11 mastermind
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Times Square bomber Faisal Shahzad and Quazi Ahsan
Nafis, the Bangladeshi student accused of plotting to bomb the Federal Reserve
Bank in New York.

'The exercise is meant to prepare students for the field, to prepare them for
careers in intelligence, policing, counterterrorism. This is a grad-level
assignment for a grad-level course,' Maras told The Post.

She asked why none of the offended police officers called her adding that she
has NYPD officers in her class.

The class is being offered by NYU's School of Continuing and Professional
Studies Center for Global Affairs.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 29, 2012 Monday 1:07 PM GMT

Terror plot ringleaders were not serious and would probably "calm down", court
hears;
A senior member of a terror plot to attack the UK with eight suicide bombers
thought it was not serious because he assumed his co-conspirators would
eventually "get married" and "calm down", a court heard.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 452 words


Ashik Ali, 27, one of the alleged "senior members" of the terror cell said he
only went along with the plot because he thought his co-accused plans would
"fade" away.

He admitted in police interview following his arrest that his role was to wear a
suicide vest and carry a gun but claimed he did not plan to go through with it,
Woolwich Crown Court heard.

The al - Qaeda inspired group is accused of planning a suicide bombing campaign
by detonating eight rucksacks packed with explosives in public places.

Ali, Irfan Khalid, 27 and Irfan Naseer, 31, all unemployed from Birmingham, were
among 12 people arrested and charged last year. The three deny 12 terror charges
between them, including planning a bombing campaign, recruiting others for
terrorism and terrorism fund - raising.

The court heard that Naseer and Khalid made martyrdom videos during alleged
terror training in Pakistan

Brian Altman QC, prosecuting, said Ali told police that Naseer and Khalid had
returned from Pakistan "radicalised".

"He did not want to say what they had been planning. He said he had thought
'give it time and they will open a shop and get married'.

"He told police that the plan had been "'to put on a jacket and have a gun"'.
What he said he meant was a suicide vest and that he would shoot people with the
gun."

He said Ali later said: "In so far as Naseer and Khalid were concerned, 'they
were not going to blow up some place or kill people straightaway'; they wanted
to open a shop and in time they would calm down."

Bringing a week-long opening speech to a close, Mr Altman said: "In interview
each of these defendants lied about their intentions and purpose, not having the
courage to confront the truth of the action they had been planning, which
through painstaking work by the authorities had been nipped in the bud.

"Only Ashik Ali came close, but sought to avoid his responsibility."

The court heard last week how the Muslim terror cell boasted about "hitting"
David Cameron, his friends and other non - believers in the "land of Satan".

The jury also heard that in one description of his martyrdom video, Naseer
referenced the Danish cartoons of Mohammed. He said such acts would only result
in "suicide bombers" spilling so much blood "you'll have nightmares for the rest
of your miserable lives".

Mr Naseer talked about buying five AK47 assault rifles by borrowing £100,000 and
claimed he could buy a grenade for £1,500 and an M16 assault rifle.

Naseer claimed al - Qaeda's "main aim" was for more people to take a stance in
Europe "so they can start whacking you there".

On their arrest last year, Ali denied being a terrorist, adding that having "a
beard does not make me a terrorist".

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 29, 2012 Monday 7:19 AM GMT

Hurricane Sandy: US stock markets close for the first time since 9/11;
US stock markets will be closed on Monday for the first time since the September
11 terrorist attacks as New York braces for the arrival of Hurricane Sandy.

BYLINE: By Richard Blackden New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 239 words


The Securities and Exchange Commission made the decision late on Sunday night
after consulting with the major exchanges, including the New York Stock
Exchange.

"The SEC will continue to be in communication with the markets as the situation
warrants, " the regulator said.

The move signals escalating concern on Wall Street at the impact of a hurricane
that is expected to bring 70 mile-an-hour winds to New York and heavy rain.
Earlier on Sunday evening, the NYSE had announced plans to close its trading
floor but keep open electronic trading.

Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, whose main New York offices are in an official
evacuation zone, are recommending employees work from home.

The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association has recommended that
bond trading, which is done electronically, finishes by noon on Monday.
Meterologists are warning that Hurricane Sandy could be the most severe to hit
the northeast of the US since the late 1930s.

It is not just financial firms that are making preparations. With New York's
subway closed and commuter networks from neighbouring New Jersey and Connecticut
also closed, a large number of those who work in the city will not be able to
make it into work.

The arrival of the hurricane comes as financial markets begin to focus on the
final ten days of the US presidential campaign. Both President Barack Obama and
Mitt Romney, his Republican challenger, have moved several campaign events.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 29, 2012 Monday 7:09 AM GMT

US markets closed for first time since 9/11;
US stock markets will be closed on Monday for the first time since the September
11 terrorist attacks and Google delays the launch of its new tablet as New York
braces for the arrival of Hurricane Sandy.

BYLINE: By Rebecca Clancy

SECTION: FINANCE

LENGTH: 435 words


The Securities and Exchange Commission made the decision late on Sunday after
consulting with the major exchanges, including the New York Stock Exchange,
Nasdaq OMX Group and CME Group.

"The SEC will continue to be in communication with the markets as the situation
warrants, " the regulator said.

The exchange operators said they made the call after consulting with each other,
regulators and government officials. They cited concerns about the market's
ability to function without disruption and the safety of people who work there.

They said markets might be closed on Tuesday "pending confirmation", according
to Bloomberg which cites e-mailed statements.

The move signals escalating concern on Wall Street at the impact of a hurricane
that is expected to bring 70 mile-an-hour winds to New York and heavy rain.

Google was forced to cancel an event launching its new tablet, the Nexus 10
alongside Samsung, which was due to take place on Monday and said it would set a
new launch date "as soon as we know more".

NASDAQ is shutting the NASDAQ Stock Market and other US exchanges and markets
that it owns. Its exchanges outside the US will operate as scheduled.

CME Group will end trading of equity index futures and equity index options on
futures market at 8.15am US central time.

Companies that had been expected to announce their results today, including NRG
Energy and Entergy, are rescheduling the release of their third quarter earnings
reports, according to reports by AP.

Drug giant Pfizer says its third quarter report and webcast has been moved from
Tuesday to Thursday, while Power wholesaler NRG Energy, based in Princeton, New
Jersey, has switched its planned Wednesday earnings call to Friday.

Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, whose main New York offices are in an official
evacuation zone, are recommending employees work from home.

The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association has recommended that
bond trading, which is done electronically, finishes by noon on Monday.
Meterologists are warning that Hurricane Sandy could be the most severe to hit
the northeast of the US since the late 1930s.

It is not just financial firms that are making preparations. With New York's
subway closed and commuter networks from neighbouring New Jersey and Connecticut
also closed, a large number of those who work in the city will not be able to
make it into work.

The arrival of the hurricane comes as financial markets begin to focus on the
final ten days of the US presidential campaign. Both President Barack Obama and
Mitt Romney, his Republican challenger, have moved several campaign events.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 29, 2012 Monday 4:58 AM GMT

Hurricane Sandy: US stock markets close for the first time since September 11;
US stock markets will be closed on Monday for the first time since the September
11 terrorist attacks as New York braces for the arrival of Hurricane Sandy.

BYLINE: By Richard Blackden New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 239 words


The Securities and Exchange Commission made the decision late on Sunday night
after consulting with the major exchanges, including the New York Stock
Exchange.

"The SEC will continue to be in communication with the markets as the situation
warrants, " the regulator said.

The move signals escalating concern on Wall Street at the impact of a hurricane
that is expected to bring 70 mile-an-hour winds to New York and heavy rain.
Earlier on Sunday evening, the NYSE had announced plans to close its trading
floor but keep open electronic trading.

Goldman Sachs and Citigroup, whose main New York offices are in an official
evacuation zone, are recommending employees work from home.

The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association has recommended that
bond trading, which is done electronically, finishes by noon on Monday.
Meterologists are warning that Hurricane Sandy could be the most severe to hit
the northeast of the US since the late 1930s.

It is not just financial firms that are making preparations. With New York's
subway closed and commuter networks from neighbouring New Jersey and Connecticut
also closed, a large number of those who work in the city will not be able to
make it into work.

The arrival of the hurricane comes as financial markets begin to focus on the
final ten days of the US presidential campaign. Both President Barack Obama and
Mitt Romney, his Republican challenger, have moved several campaign events.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday

Afghan paper urges stepping up fight against terror in wake of Id suicide attack

LENGTH: 558 words


Text of editorial by Mohammad Raza headlined "Continuation of innocent people's
killings" published by Afghan newspaper Daily Afghanistan, part of the
Afghanistan newspaper group, on 29 October

The forbidden months [four months are called forbidden months in Islam] have
been highly respected in the course of Islam's history. Islam bans conflict and
disputes during these months. These months are different from others since
Muslims need to focus on Islamic education and ordains of God Almighty, who
orders his followers to refrain from violent acts. Followers of Allah must
properly follow their Lord's ordains to achieve happiness and tranquillity in
this and the other world.

Also, Id al-Adha, the biggest Islamic festival, occurs in one of the forbidden
months, where followers of Allah from all over the world gather in holy places
to show their humbleness and to purify their spirit. On Id days, killing a
Muslim has no justification in any religion on earth.

While waiting to hear the news of a cease-fire in Syria on the first day of Id
al-Adha, Muslims heard about the killing and wounding of nearly 100 worshipers
in a mosque in northern Fariab Province, which increased the Muslim world's
hatred of the perpetrators of this act.

This act was met with swift reactions. Leaders from around the world condemned
this cowardly act in the strongest terms. There is no justification to commit
such crimes. However, the story is not over with the killing of dozens of people
in a suicide attack in a city. The issue is the acts and ideology of committing
suicide which takes the lives of innocent people for hegemonic and political
purposes.

It is astonishing that several bombers have committed suicide attacks in mosques
and killed a large number of Muslims and believers on the pretext of defending
Islam and fighting non-believers.

No one can justify such acts. How can one kill a worshiper in the name of
defending religion? How can one cut off the body of an innocent child who comes
to the mosque with his father to worship the Lord? How can one justify removing
innocent passengers from a bus and beheading them?

Violence has reached its peak in Afghanistan. Violence in this country has not
been limited to military spots and the battleground. Mosques, shrines, sacred
places and innocent people, including the elderly, youths, women, men and
children, face violence. No law has been implemented when it comes to the issue
of violence. Violence is taking lives with all its might. Innocent men, women
and children are killed for no reason, and perpetrators of these massacres do
not have even a single reason for committing such crimes.

Expressing condolences and sympathy with the families of the victims and
survivors is a humanitarian gesture and the job of officials, but we need to
take practical actions against assassinations, suicide attacks, military
operations in which civilians are killed and massacres of innocent people.
Officials and relevant organizations should step up the fight against
terrorists. Repetition of such incidents is not acceptable at all. The
government should first of all disclose the perpetrators of these crimes to the
nation and arrest and put them on trial. It should also draw up practical and
serious programmes to prevent similar incidents in future.

Source: Daily Afghanistan, Kabul, in Dari 29 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday

Afghan senators accuses clerics of keeping silent on terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 505 words


Text of report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 30 October

[Presenter] The Senate has seriously criticized President Karzai's soft policy
on the Taleban, urging President Karzai to be serious in fighting terrorism and
also to revise his policy on the Taleban. The senators also seriously criticize
the silence of the Nationwide Council of Religious Scholars over suicide attacks
carried out by the Taleban.

[Correspondent] The killing of more than 100 individuals on the first day of Id
in Fariab Province as result of a suicide attack has angered the Senate. The
senators urge the government to change its policy on the Taleban and say soft
policies should not be used when it comes to the Taleban's attacks.

[Senator Sayed Farokh Jenab, captioned] They [Taleban] should be eliminated,
just as they are trying to eliminate our nation. The government and our security
forces should also eliminate them. The begging and beseeching peace offer that
we make for them [the Taleban] will not produce anything.

[Mohammad Alem Ezedyar, first deputy Senate speaker, captioned] The Afghan
government should revise its mechanism and policies on the Taleban. As you
[senator] have said, unfortunately, the begging and beseeching policy has not
produced results.

[Correspondent] A suicide attack was carried out after the Id prayer in Fariab
at a time when, a day before, the senior Saudi religious scholar had described
suicide attacks as unlawful. A number of senators also urge the Nationwide
Council of Religious Scholars to seriously condemn such attacks and describe
them as unlawful.

[Senator Mohammad Daud Hasas, captioned, in Pashto] As you see, all of our
scholars from the Nationwide Council of Religious Scholars represent the Taleban
when they appear on television. And when they go to the president, they also
speak to him on behalf of the Taleban. You [senators] show me a member of the
Nationwide Council of Religious Scholars who has spoken against the Taleban
causing their [Taleban's] anger.

[Senator Ali Akbar Jamshidi, captioned] Why is the Nationwide Council of
Religious Scholars Afghanistan silent? Why do they not break their silence? Why
do they not declare jihad against these non-Muslim killers?

[Senator Najiba Hussaine, captioned] The remarks by the Saudi Mufti and the
respected Sayyaf [describing suicide attacks as unlawful] are very good. Our
scholars should have the courage and describe suicide attacks as unlawful and
violent.

[Correspondent] The Senate is making this criticism at a time when, during his
visit to see the families of the victims of the suicide attack in Fariab in the
presence of President Karzai, the head of the Nationwide Council of Religious
Scholars had said that Pakistan was behind this attack. This comes at a time
when neither the Taleban nor any other group has claimed responsibility for the
suicide attack in Fariab.

[Video shows senators speaking; senate session; Fariab suicide attack; President
Karzai.]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul in Dari 1330 gmt 30 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 31, 2012 Wednesday

Kyrgyz commandos train to prevent terror attacks on dams

LENGTH: 436 words


Text of report by privately-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Bishkek, 31 October: Kyrgyz security structures and local governments have
practised taking joint actions in case of a terrorist threat.

The first stage of an antiterrorism exercise, code-named Rubezh Antiterror 2012,
has been held in the area of the major Orto-Tokoy reservoir in Issyk-Kul Region
(Kyrgyzstan's east). The exercise was organized by the Kyrgyz State National
Security Committee's Antiterrorist Centre in cooperation with the country's
Interior Ministry, Defence Ministry, Emergencies Ministry, Transport and
Communications Ministry, Health Ministry and local governments.

The OSCE Centre in Bishkek helped organize and conduct the exercise.

The head of the republic's operations headquarters and deputy director of the
Antiterrorist Centre, Talaybek Japarov, said before the beginning of the
exercise that it was of great importance because "the region has witnessed
international terrorist groups becoming active, which do not rule out the
possibility of carrying out acts of sabotage and terrorist attacks on strategic
economic facilities. This might have serious man-made and economic
consequences".

Under a scenario of the exercises, a group of terrorists seized the emergency
gate shaft at a reservoir and took several staff hostage. They demanded money
and air corridor to Afghanistan. They threatened to blow up the gate shaft if
their demands were not met. In case of a possible explosion, water from the
reservoir might have flooded part of Issyk-Kul and Chuy regions in Kyrgyzstan's
north and went further to Kazakhstan flooding and destroying everything on its
way.

Special task forces of the Kyrgyz Defence Ministry, Interior Ministry and
Emergencies Ministry, as well as military helicopters Mi-8, armoured vehicles
and first aid teams and a fire brigade were involved in the exercises.

Speaking about the situation in Kyrgyzstan, Japarov said that "there has always
been a terrorist threat in Kyrgyzstan". "We live in a region where we border
troubled countries, including the Afghan-Pakistani zone. This means that many
religious organizations have dug themselves in this zone, where conditions are
created for them and where they enjoy support," he said.

He, however, did not rule out the possibility of a terrorist threat growing in
the Central Asian region, including Kyrgyzstan after international coalition
troops withdraw from Afghanistan.

The second stage of the exercise Rubezh Antiterror 2012 is expected to be held
in Osh (Kyrgyzstan's south) on 2 November.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1238 gmt 31 Oct 12

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    October 31, 2012 Wednesday 10:01 PM GMT

Stock markets in New York reopen for trading after the longest closure since the
9/11 terror attacks on the US

BYLINE: FINANCIAL MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: MARKETS

LENGTH: 150 words


Stock markets in New York reopened for trading yesterday after the longest
closure since the 9/11 terror attacks on the US.

Trading on Wall Street was cancelled on Monday and Tuesday as Superstorm Sandy
left a trail of devastation across huge tracts of America's eastern seaboard.

It was the first time weather has resulted in a two-day market shutdown since
the Great Blizzard of 1888.

But New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg rang the bell at the New York Stock
Exchange yesterday to signal the start of trading. 'The finance capital of the
world is open for business,' he said.

US shares initially rallied but stocks slipped back later in the day as traders
and investors rushed to clear the backlog built up over the previous 48 hours.

The storm is thought to have caused in the region of £25bn worth of damage and
turned the race for the White House upside down ahead of next week's
Presidential elections.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 31, 2012 Wednesday 1:31 PM GMT

Pakistan to return to India for first cricket tour since Mumbai attacks;
India has cleared the way for Pakistan to make its first cricket tour of the
country since the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks froze relations between New Delhi
and Islamabad.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 576 words


The Pakistan team is expected to play its first match on Christmas Day in a
series government ministers believe will highlight the growing improvement in
relations between the long-standing enemies.

The announcement by the Board for Control of Cricket in India (BCCI) is a
significant boost for Pakistan cricket which has been excluded from India since
2008 and shunned by other countries since the Sri Lankan team was attacked by
terrorists as it arrived for an international in Lahore in 2009.

Since then, the Pakistan Cricket Board has also been hit by corruption and match
fixing scandals.

According to BCCI officials, the Pakistan team will arrive on December 22nd and
play three One Day Internationals and two Twenty-Twenty matches in Delhi,
Calcutta, Bangalore, Chennai and Ahmedabad.

None of the matches will be held in Mumbai, where Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists
from Karachi killed 166 commuters, hotel guests and members of the security
forces in a three day rampage in November 2008.

Ten highly trained terrorists arrived by fishing boat from Karachi, divided into
groups and attacked multiple sites, including the Taj Mahal Palace hotel, the
main railway terminus in rush hour and the busy Leopold Café backpacker bar.

Only one of the terrorists, Ajmal Kasab, was taken alive and is now facing the
death penalty.

The scale of organisation convinced the Indian government the terrorists must
have support from within Pakistan's security establishment and the suspicion
brought the two countries close to the brink of war.

India later insisted Pakistan must prove its sincerity by bringing those
responsible for planning the Mumbai attacks to justice.

In the last two years however, relations have improved markedly with new
agreements on increased trade and a more relaxed visa regime to allow families
separated by partition to visit more easily.

The thaw began in earnest after Hina Rabbani Khar, Pakistan's young and
glamorous foreign minister, visited New Delhi in July last year.

Her fresh approach and determination to move the relationship forward rather
than dwell on the disputes of the past won admirers in India.

S.M Krishna, who stood down from the Cabinet last weekend, said he had struck up
a personal chemistry with her despite an age gap of more than 30 years. Earlier
this year Pakistan confirmed Most Favoured Nation trading status for India and
India lifted curbs on foreign investment from Pakistan.

Restrictions on goods permitted in cross-border trade were eased while group
tourist and multiple entry visas for businessmen were approved. In September,
Pakistan said it would release more than 200 fishermen held after illegally
entering its waters.

BCCI Vice-President Rajiv Shukla, who is also an Indian government minister,
told The Daily Telegraph he believed the tour would improve relations between
the two countries even further.

"It's very significant for both countries. We need to engage with each other
through diplomatic and unofficial, people to people exchanges. We experienced
this in the 2004-2005 [tour] and I expect it will happen again once the series
begins. There will be a change in the political atmosphere.

"I conveyed this to the prime minister [Dr Manmohan Singh] and explained that it
was important to bring close the people of both countries, and he agreed. All
security and visa arrangements have been finalised," he said.

The tour will take place during a Christmas break in England's winter tour to
India.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           November 1, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Dissident attacks fall by a fifth;
TERROR

BYLINE: DAVID YOUNG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 129 words


DISSIDENT republican attacks have fallen by 20% so far this year, the Secretary
of State has said. Barring a few exceptions, the potency and sophistication of
the violence has also dropped, Theresa Villiers told a Westminster committee.

But she warned their intention and capacity to kill was still significant and
the Government remained vigilant.

She told MPs: "There have been 20 national security attacks this year as against
25 to the end of October last year.

"The sophistication and potency of attacks is on the whole lower than in 2011
although there have been some exceptions to this.

"The intent and capability of the dissidents remains significant as is their
potential to carry out potentially lethal attacks.

"That should never be underestimated and we remain vigilant."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STATEMENT J Theresa Villiers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           November 1, 2012 Thursday
                                   2 Edition

MY RACE ATTACK TERROR IN WEST END;
EXCLUSIVE POLICE HUNT THUG AFTER STREET ASSAULT

BYLINE: RACHEL LOXTON

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 37 words


A REFUGEE who was attacked and racially abused in the West End of Glasgow today
branded the assault  hideous .

Shahid Khan, 30, was butted twice and slapped as he walked with his sister from
a retail park.

FULL STORY   PAGE 7

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 2, 2012 Friday

Kyrgyz commandos train to prevent terror attacks on energy facilities

LENGTH: 253 words


Text of report by privately-owned Kyrgyz AKIpress news agency website

A command and staff antiterrorism exercise, code-named Rubezh Antiterror 2012,
was held in the area of a heating and power plant in the city of Osh
[Kyrgyzstan's south] today.

The exercise was held by the State National Security Committee jointly with
other departments responsible for fighting terrorism.

The head of the territorial operations headquarters, head of the department of
the State National Security Committee for the city of Osh and Osh Region, Nurlan
Ryskulov, said that the tasks for the exercise included working out a mechanism
for forming a territorial operations headquarters in Osh on supervising
antiterrorism operations and for its functioning in case of a real terrorist
threat, as well as practising the issues of coordination and cooperation between
departments involved in fighting terrorism in case of a real threat.

The efficiency of notification and warning systems in case of a crisis caused by
terrorists seizing highly dangerous facilities or taking hostage was also
checked.

[Monitor's note: the first phase of the Rubezh Antiterror 2012 exercise was held
in northeastern Issyk-Kul Region on 31 October 2012. Special task forces of the
Kyrgyz Defence Ministry, Interior Ministry and Emergencies Ministry practised
preventing terrorist attacks on dams and reservoirs in the first phase of the
exercise in the area of the major Orto-Tokoy reservoir]

Source: AKIpress news agency website, Bishkek, in Russian 1003 gmt 2 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 3, 2012 Saturday

Argentine paper says issue of 1994 terror attack not easy to resolve

LENGTH: 1488 words


Text of report by Argentine newspaper Ambito Financiero website on 1 November


[Commentary by Ignacio Zuleta: "The 'It was not me' from the Iranian Foreign
Minister"]

Yesterday Iranian Minister of Foreign Affairs Ali Akbar Salehi told [Foreign
Minister] Hector Timerman that the statement by his spokesman on Tuesday that
rejected any implication of Iranian citizens in the attack on the AMIA
[Argentine-Jewish Mutual Association] was not a missile intended to derail the
meetings that were then in progress in Switzerland between of the two countries
in an attempt to find a way of trying the persons accused of that atrocity. The
two foreign ministers spoke at noon yesterday after Timerman had received a
report from the delegation that went to Geneva. Salehi explained the remarks
made by his spokesman, Ramin Mehmanparast, by saying that he holds one press
conference a week and that, in response to a question, he had repeated what his
government has maintained since it had first been asked to extradite current and
former government officials. In their conversation, he suggested that this
spokesman was not familiar with the details of the talks in Geneva (that is
credible, as Iran has no free circulation of information, not even among
government officials; nor does it have social media or other forms of a free
press). Timerman said that he believed him but he also asked him to issue a
statement saying that the talks were continuing and that his country will
respect all the agreements reached at the upcoming meeting, which will be held
at the end of November in some European city, but not necessarily in Geneva.


With the statements released by each government, the parties considered this
method of negotiating holding a trial of the persons accused by the Argentine
Judiciary in some third country to be still on track. The men accused include
one of Salehi's fellow cabinet members, Minister of Defence Ahmad Vahidi. Until
noon yesterday, when Timerman read his short statement giving the Argentine
assessment of the three meetings in Geneva (two on Monday and one on Tuesday),
there had been a good deal of scepticism about the fate of this approach, an
approach that Tehran had requested. Buenos Aires accepted this request, despite
the political cost entailed in meeting to talk with officials of a country that
Argentina has accused of shielding men responsible for an attack that killed 86
people, wounded hundreds more, caused a great deal of damage, and also created a
wound that is not yet closed in Argentina.

The official silence that has been maintained in Buenos Aires contributed to
this pessimistic climate, as the government gave no details about what had been
discussed and the press had to console itself with only the misleading and later
denied Iranian communique, which had seemed to upend the entire process. The
Foreign Ministry chose to wait until the negotiators arrived back home yesterday
before asking Tehran for details, reporting to Cristina de Kirchner, and issuing
the extremely short statement that Timerman read at Government House before he
left for his trip to South Africa. This reticence is understandable because of
the sensitive nature of the issue, but it also goes hand in hand with the
Kirchner administrations' style of creating secrets where there is no need for
secrecy. Yesterday a minister talked about a conversation he once had with
Nestor Kirchner in which he advised the then president to inform the press about
a certain issue. "We have to give them something because they have to issue a
newspaper every day and if they have no facts, they invent things." "Let them
invent things; don't give them anything," was the former president's answer.

The situation became further entangled by this passion for secrecy because of
the opposing positions of some sectors of the Argentine Jewish community about
these negotiations, and also because of the ambiguity of the Iranian government,
which honours the Islamic tradition of Averroism, a philosophy that upholds the
Aristotelian principle of non-contradiction and accepts the possibility that
there may be two orders of truth. (In fact, familiarity with that tradition is
essential for understanding the government of Carlos Menem, the supreme follower
of Averroes in Argentine politics, who could maintain two different truths on a
single issue without batting an eye).

Because of this climate that obscures information about the issue, it is
appropriate to offer some clarifications in response to questions that remain
open and also for questions about the papers that arrived in Cristina de
Kirchner's office yesterday.

Why did the government ignore the Iranian statement? That communique referred to
responsibilities, while the meeting in Switzerland was dealing with the
possibilities of trying the men accused in some third country. At none of the
three meetings did they discuss the evidence that the Argentine Judiciary has or
any of the arguments that Iran might have for so forcefully proclaiming its
officials' innocence.

Why has the government insisted on this approach when it has to pay the domestic
cost of creating a confrontation with a significant sector of the leadership of
the Argentine Jewish community? Because this is something that Iran requested
and there are no reasons for refusing to talk. If that request were ignored, the
Argentine position of demanding that Great Britain hold open-ended talks about
the sovereignty of the Malvinas [Falklands] would immediately be discredited. In
addition, according to the government, admitting that it could not talk with
Iran would put Argentina on a lower level than the United States, to use one
example, which does negotiate with the government in Tehran on various issues on
which they are opposed. Argentina's top officials insist that what they are
trying to do is to conclude the AMIA case. If Iran will not agree to
extraditions or trials in some third country, it will have demonstrated its bad
faith and then the Argentine government will deploy the customary verbal barrage
that it uses against its foreign opponents. If it does agree and there is a
trial, then the truth about this connection will emerge, and the truth is a debt
that the Argentine state owes to the victims and families of the victims of this
attack. "This is a way to find out what happened," say those papers.

A well informed moderate, former Deputy Foreign Minister Andres Cisneros, who is
a critic of the administration's foreign policy, yesterday said during a radio
interview that this course should at least be tried. "I do not like this
[administration's] foreign policy, but I do support it on this point," said the
man who worked with Guido di Tella when he was foreign minister. "It may
possibly produce some results, or a result that we do not yet see. I do not
believe that the government would do this for an issue related to the economy,
as they say. Let us hope."

What can be hoped for from an issue that offers so little in return? The
government is putting this effort on the same level as the efforts that it
expended in reopening the trials for atrocities committed during the clandestine
repression of the guerrillas. The first trials, which were prohibited in
Argentina by the pardons and amnesty laws, were held abroad. With the repeal of
the transition legislation, those trials have begun to be held in Argentina.
That has fulfilled the demand that Nestor Kirchner made to his foreign, justice,
and defence ministers shortly after he became president in 2003: "Never again do
I want a president, either myself or any other president, to get out of a plane
in a foreign country and have a mother or grandmother wearing a white scarf come
up and ask me to send someone who has been accused of violating human rights to
that country." That insistence explains the entire human rights policy that has
followed.

On issues of this type at times we tend to know, through the press and other
sources, only the tip of the iceberg, and everyone is looking for some other
explanation for the administration's enthusiasm about pursuing this course.
There is scepticism about the possibility of finding out any truth about the
AMIA issue after nearly two decades. Not onl y because of the failure of the
local investigation, which is now bringing Carlos Menem, some of his officials,
and former Judge Juan Jose Galeano to trial. But also because of the political
complexity of the attack, which some years ago drew a witty remark from Jorge
Yoma, now a deputy. When the Senate was discussing creating a bilateral
commission to investigate the attacks on the Embassy [of Israel in 1992] and the
AMIA [in 1994] he said aloud in the Senate: "Do you really believe that what
could not be resolved by the CIA, the FBI, the KGB, or Mossad will be resolved
by Choclo Alasino, Pajaro Branda, and me?"

Source: Ambito Financiero website, Buenos Aires, in Spanish 1 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                           November 3, 2012 Saturday

Foreign Office raises Egypt terror alert after reports of foiled attack

BYLINE: Peter Walker

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 319 words


The Foreign Office has raised its terrorism warning for visitors to Egypt from
medium to high and particularly urged Britons against travel to the Sinai region
after a recent spate of militant attacks.

The change comes on the same day that a report revealed Egyptian police had
foiled a plot by al-Qaida-linked militants to attack tourists in the Red Sea
resort of Sharm el-Sheikh. The Mirror said the attack, involving guns and
rocket-propelled grenades, had been planned for Christmas.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said she could not comment on any link, adding that
changes to travel advice were based on "a number of sources".

While Sharm el-Sheikh is on the southern tip of the Sinai peninsula, it and
other nearby resorts - Taba, Nuweiba and Dahab - are excluded from the Foreign
Office advice against travel to the region.

The Foreign Office spokeswoman added: "Our advice makes clear that there is a
high threat from terrorism in Egypt."

Its website says: "Although security is tight throughout the country, especially
in resort areas, there remains a high risk of attacks, which could be
indiscriminate, including in public places frequented by expatriates and foreign
travellers such as hotels and restaurants."

The advice warns against all travel to north Sinai, where there have been
attacks on security forces near the border with Gaza and Egypt, including one
which killed 16 soldiers.

The advice says that even in south Sinai, security has deteriorated this year,
with a number of hijacks and kidnaps taking place away from resort areas.

Egypt has been trying to rebuild its tourism industry after last year's
widespread unrest ended the long rule of Hosni Murbarak as president. Last month
the antiquities minister, Muhammad Ibrahim, reopened the restored pyramid of
Chefren and six tombs at Giza, using the occasion to stress the country's safety
for tourists.

Captions:

The plot aimed to hit Sharm el-Sheikh

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      November 4, 2012 Sunday 8:15 PM GMT

Bowling woes intensify for England after Broad limps off;
Vice-captain undergoes scan on heel as attack is terrorised by rising star
Pujara

BYLINE: David Clough

SECTION: CRICKET

LENGTH: 791 words


Stuart Broad has picked up a heel injury to add to England's mounting concerns
as they continue preparations for the forthcoming Test series in India.

Vice-captain Broad was tonight set to undergo a scan, after having to leave the
field temporarily because of pain in his left foot on day two of this warm-up
match against Mumbai A.

The seamer returned after four overs but did not bowl again, having managed 10
overs previously in four short spells as England's opponents reached 232 for 4
in reply to 345 for 9 declared.

An update on Broad's heel is expected tomorrow, when England also hope to
discover whether Stuart Meaker - already called in as pace-bowling cover for the
injured Steven Finn - has overcome visa issues and will therefore be able to fly
to India in time for a final warm-up fixture before the first Test in Ahmedabad.

That opening match of four in what is sure to prove a tough series begins on 15
November and before Broad also succumbed to injury, it was thought probable
Finn's sore thigh would keep him out of the reckoning until the second Test back
here in Mumbai.

England endured an awkward day all round at the Dr DY Patil Sports Stadium,
where they got a longer first look than they might have wished at India No 3
Cheteshwar Pujara (87), who shared a third-wicket stand of 163 with Hiken Shah
(84 not out). With or without Broad, it does not appear Pujara for one will be
losing any sleep about England's bowlers after his first experience against
them. "I was pretty comfortable against all the bowlers," he said. "I guess,
since I've scored runs, I'll have learned more. I hadn't faced many of England's
bowlers before, so it was important I got some practice before the Test series.
I could get used to their actions, what kind of strengths [they have] and
strategies against me."

Pujara eventually fell to Monty Panesar, and described England's left-arm
spinner as the pick of the attack. It remains unlikely Panesar will feature in
the first Test. But whoever does, Pujara is expecting them to up their game. "It
won't be the same in the Test match, because I think the intensity will be
higher. I think their fielding was not quite up to the mark here, but will be in
the Test."

Pujara's approach was reminiscent of the discipline employed by the great Rahul
Dravid, a batsman known universally as 'The Wall' and one England - and most
other nations - found especially difficult to displace for many years. "It's not
quite the same, but I guess I can see where you're coming from," Panesar said of
that suggestion. "He accumulates his runs; he's not going to come after the
attack, and just plays a patient game. He's a very patient player, an organised
cricketer."

Even so, Panesar senses that Pujara may find things tougher in more exacting
conditions and praised England's tenacity.

"I think if there's a little bit more pace in the pitch, he's a little bit
vulnerable early on because of the extra carry. They obviously played well. But
the boys put in a good effort, and we didn't make it easy for them either. I
thought as a unit the guys did really well today."

Panesar has not given up either yet on Finn returning to full fitness in the
next 10 days. "He's in good spirits," he said. "It's not a major thing - which
is really good for us - and we hope he can recover in time and be available for
the first Test."

Mumbai scoreboard

Tour match second day of three: Mumbai A are trailing England by 113 runs with 6
first-innings wickets in hand

England won toss

ENGLAND First InningsOvernight 338-6 (Bairstow 118, Morgan 76)S R Patel c S M
Shaikh b Waingankar 6080 balls 0 sixes 7 fours*S C J Broad lbw b Thakur 616
balls 0 sixes 1 foursG Onions c S M Shaikh b Thakur 010 balls 0 sixes 0 foursJ M
Anderson not out 513 balls 0 sixes 1 foursExtras (b5 lb3 w2 nb9) 19Total (for 9
dec, 93 overs) 345Fall: 1-5, 2-55, 3-64, 4-66, 5-222, 6-329, 7-339, 8-339,
9-345.Did Not Bat: M S Panesar.Bowling: K Waingankar 25-8-72-3, S N Thakur
20-4-53-3, J J Khan 17-1-75-2, S Dhawan 12-2-49-0, S A Yadav 6-1-30-1, S S
Shaikh 3-0-14-0, N A Patil 5-0-28-0, B J Thakkar 5-0-16-0.

MUMBAI A First InningsB J Thakkar c Bairstow b Onions 535 balls 0 sixes 1 foursS
Dhawan c Anderson b Root 2759 balls 0 sixes 5 foursC A Pujara c Anderson b
Panesar 87184 balls 0 sixes 11 foursH N Shah not out 84190 balls 1 sixes 9
fours*S A Yadav c Bairstow b Anderson 1717 balls 0 sixes 3 foursExtras (b6 lb2
w1 nb3) 12Total (for 4, 80.4 overs) 232Fall: 1-19, 2-47, 3-210, 4-232.To bat: S
M Shaikh, N A Patil, K Waingankar, J J Khan, S N Thakur, S S Shaikh. Bowling: J
M Anderson 13.4-5-36-1, S C J Broad 10-2-19-0, G Onions 12-2-34-1, M S Panesar
20-4-47-1, J E Root 13-3-43-1, S R Patel 9-1-34-0, I J L Trott 3-0-11-0.Umpires:
R M Deshpande and N H Phadnis.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2012 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                November 4, 2012
                                   Edition 1;

Quake and terror attack keep Ryan focused on reality

BYLINE: Colin Mafham

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 543 words


IF ever QPR needed a born survivor it's now. And veteran defender Ryan Nelsen
fits the bill perfectly.

The New Zealand hardman, who escaped the September 11 attack on the Pentagon and
saw his pregnant sister go missing in the earthquake that devastated his native
Christchuch last year, faces another test of strength and emotions at Loftus
Road today.

It's not a matter of life and death against shellshocked Reading, but the man
who also took on Tiger Woods on the driving range knows he and QPR need some
heroics this afternoon.

And as he prepared for a contest neither side can afford to lose, Nelsen relived
the personal nightmares that put today's match into perspective.

He recalled: "When things like that earthquake happen, there is a feeling of
total hopelessness.

"My sister went into childbirth when the earthquake happened. She got stuck in a
pile of rocks and no one could get to her. All the phones were cut off."

Nelsen told how his desperate parents phoned him in Blackburn, where he played
for seven years, hoping he may know more than them. He didn't.

"I was just helpless.

Everybody was running about looking for loved ones."

Nelsen recalls clearly that he was about to train with Blackburn, ahead of a
game against Aston Villa, when he got that call which struck terror in his
heart.

Nelsen's sister Stephanie and her baby survived the Christchurch horror, though
it took its emotional toll on the player. He added: "I managed to get myself
sent off that weekend. You couldn't make that up, could you? "You think this
can't happen in countries like New Zealand, England, Australia and America, but
when it does it brings you to reality."

Nelsen, who met golfer Woods while studying political science at Stanford
University in California, was in Washington when the terrorists struck there 11
years ago.

"I was only a mile or so from the Pentagon when that got hit in 9/11. Now the
hurricane has happened to them as well it is kind of humbling."

Nelsen returned to battered Christchurch with the New Zealand team last month
and felt the pain all over again.

"Christchurch is like a ghost town now," he said. "Half the city has been torn
down. There are tumbleweeds going through the streets. But the rebuilding is
starting and it is a blank canvas."

Today it is back to football for the 35-year-old, who joined rock-bottom QPR in
June following his release by Tottenham.

He added: "The most frustrating thing is that the performances have been there
but the points haven't. It would be more scary if we were playing badly and
losing fair and square."

That's why his heart goes out to under-fire manager Mark Hughes.

"He's first in, last out. Certainly the work ethic is there. It is frustrationg
for me but I can't imagine what it is like for the manager.

"If we make a mistake, it is always the manager who takes the full
responsibility. There are many things a manager can't plan for," added Nelson,
who privately hopes Reading's 7-5 Capital One Cup defeat by Arsenal haunts them
today.

"I feel for the fans. They want their team to win and when they don't they vent
their frustrations.

"I can tell them the manager is doing everything he can to win games. If we
lose, it is not because we are not trying. We are."

QPR V Reading TODAY KO: 1.30pm TV: Sky Sports 1

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TOUCHED BY TRAGEDY: QPR defender Ryan Nelsen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                November 5, 2012
                                 First Edition

Bowling woes intensify for England after Broad limps off;
Vice-captain undergoes scan on heel as attack is terrorised by rising star
Pujara

BYLINE: DAVID CLOUGH in Mumbai

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 951 words


Stuart Broad has picked up a heel injury to add to England's mounting concerns
as they continue preparations for the forthcoming Test series in India.

Vice-captain Broad was last night set to undergo a scan, after having to leave
the field temporarily because of pain in his left foot on day two of this
warm-up match against Mumbai A.

The seamer returned after four overs but did not bowl again, having managed 10
overs previously in four short spells as England's opponents reached 232 for 4
in reply to 345 for 9 declared.

An update on Broad's heel is expected today, when England also hope to discover
whether Stuart Meaker - already called in as pace-bowling cover for the injured
Steven Finn - has overcome visa issues and will therefore be able to fly to
India in time for a final warm-up fixture before the first Test in Ahmedabad.

That opening match of four in what is sure to prove a tough series begins on 15
November and before Broad also succumbed to injury, it was thought probable
Finn's sore thigh would keep him out of the reckoning until the second Test back
here in Mumbai.

England endured an awkward day all round at the Dr DY Patil Sports Stadium,
where they got a longer first look than they might have wished at India No 3
Cheteshwar Pujara (87), who shared a third-wicket stand of 163 with Hiken Shah
(84 not out). With or without Broad, it does not appear Pujara for one will be
losing any sleep about England's bowlers after his first experience against
them. "I was pretty comfortable against all the bowlers," he said. "I guess,
since I've scored runs, I'll have learned more. I hadn't faced many of England's
bowlers before, so it was important I got some practice before the Test series.
I could get used to their actions, what kind of strengths [they have] and
strategies against me."

Pujara eventually fell to Monty Panesar, and described England's left-arm
spinner as the pick of the attack. It remains unlikely Panesar will feature in
the first Test. But whoever does, Pujara is expecting them to up their game. "It
won't be the same in the Test match, because I think the intensity will be
higher. I think their fielding was not quite up to the mark here, but will be in
the Test."

Pujara's approach was reminiscent of the discipline employed by the great Rahul
Dravid, a batsman known universally as 'The Wall' and one England - and most
other nations - found especially difficult to displace for many years. "It's not
quite the same, but I guess I can see where you're coming from," Panesar said of
that suggestion. "He accumulates his runs; he's not going to come after the
attack, and just plays a patient game. He's a very patient player, an organised
cricketer."

Even so, Panesar senses that Pujara may find things tougher in more exacting
conditions and praised England's tenacity.

"I think if there's a little bit more pace in the pitch, he's a little bit
vulnerable early on because of the extra carry. They obviously played well. But
the boys put in a good effort, and we didn't make it easy for them either. I
thought as a unit the guys did really well today."

Panesar has not given up either yet on Finn returning to full fitness in the
next 10 days. "He's in good spirits," he said. "It's not a major thing - which
is really good for us - and we hope he can recover in time and be available for
the first Test."

MUMBAI

SCOREBOARD

Tour match second day of three: Mumbai A are trailing England by 113 runs with 6
first-innings wickets in hand

England won toss

ENGLAND First Innings

Overnight 338-6 (Bairstow 118, Morgan 76)

S R Patel c S M Shaikh b
Waingankar........................................................60

80 balls 0 sixes 7 fours

*S C J Broad lbw b
Thakur..........................................................................
............6

16 balls 0 sixes 1 fours

G Onions c S M Shaikh b
Thakur.......................................................................0

10 balls 0 sixes 0 fours

J M Anderson not
out.............................................................................
....................5

13 balls 0 sixes 1 fours

Extras (b5 lb3 w2
nb9)............................................................................
..............19

Total (for 9 dec, 93 overs) ................................................345

Fall: 1-5, 2-55, 3-64, 4-66, 5-222, 6-329, 7-339, 8-339, 9-345.

Did Not Bat: M S Panesar.

Bowling: K Waingankar 25-8-72-3, S N Thakur 20-4-53-3, J J

Khan 17-1-75-2, S Dhawan 12-2-49-0, S A Yadav 6-1-30-1, S S Shaikh

3-0-14-0, N A Patil 5-0-28-0, B J Thakkar 5-0-16-0.

MUMBAI A First Innings

B J Thakkar c Bairstow b
Onions......................................................................5

35 balls 0 sixes 1 fours

S Dhawan c Anderson b
Root..........................................................................27

59 balls 0 sixes 5 fours

C A Pujara c Anderson b
Panesar.................................................................87

184 balls 0 sixes 11 fours

H N Shah not
out.............................................................................
...........................84

190 balls 1 sixes 9 fours

*S A Yadav c Bairstow b
Anderson................................................................17

17 balls 0 sixes 3 fours

Extras (b6 lb2 w1
nb3)............................................................................
................12

Total (for 4, 80.4 overs)
....................................................232

Fall: 1-19, 2-47, 3-210, 4-232.

To bat: ???S M Shaikh, N A Patil, K Waingankar, J J Khan, S N Thakur,

S S Shaikh.

Bowling: J M Anderson 13.4-5-36-1, S C J Broad 10-2-19-0, G Onions 12-2-34-1, M
S Panesar 20-4-47-1, J E Root 13-3-43-1, S R Patel 9-1-34-0, I J L Trott
3-0-11-0.

Umpires: R M Deshpande and N H Phadnis.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SS


                      Copyright 2012 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 6, 2012 Tuesday 11:11 PM GMT

Revealed: The President's $223million 'doomsday' plane that protects him against
nuclear war, asteroids and terror attacks

BYLINE: HAYLEY PETERSON

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 687 words


It can withstand a nuclear bomb, asteroid blasts and terror attacks while
staying airborne for days without refueling: It's the president's $223 million
'doomsday' plane and it's on standby 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, ready to
launch at a minute's notice.

The United States' so-called Doomsday plane is a jumbo jet on steroids, set
apart from other Boeing 747's by its radiation-protected shell, 67 antennae and
satellite dishes that can communicate with anyone on the ground, advanced
heating and cooling systems and loads of other high-tech top-secret gear.

In the case of a national disaster, the plane's four turbofan jet engine can fly
for days without refueling and it can reach speeds of up to 620 miles per hour,
whereas commercial planes can only fly up to 580 miles per hour.

Scroll down for video

Perhaps the most surprising fact about the 'doomsday' plane is its age. The
aircraft was built more than 30 years ago in the 1980s, and still retains much
of its technology from that era.

'In the event of a disaster low tech can be very advantageous,' a tech sergeant
told the Discovery Channel, which is airing a special on America's 'doomsday'
plans this week. 'The higher the tech, the more electronics. [When] you rely on
more parts, it's more susceptible to breaking.'

The plane has been modified and updated over the years with advances in
technology.

Lt. Col. David Gaskill, who oversees the day-to-day operations of the
president's Doomsday plane, told U.S. Strategic Command in 2010 it is the 'most
technologically advanced airborne system in the world.'

The plane, which was last airborne during the terror attacks on 9/11, is
designed to launch within five minutes in the case of a surprise alarm.
Specially-trained technicians sleep near the plane in case of emergency.

But the Doomsday aircraft is only one slice of the United States' plans for
protecting high-ranking officials in the case of a national emergency.

The federal government also has a top-secret underground complex called 'Mount
Weather' located 64 miles from Washington, D.C. in Virginia.

Buried 300 feet underground, the massive complex features 20 multistory
buildings, water reservoirs, a sewage treatment plant, a hospital, a crematorium
and a television studio where the president can keep the American people
apprised of what's going on.

The compound has enough supplies to last 200 personnel a month, but enough bunks
for 2,000 people.

Former president Ronald Reagan made the country's doomsday plan a top priority
during his administration.

Reagan put his chief of staff, Donald Rumsfield, and then-congressman Dick
Cheney in charge of his 'continuity of government' plan.

Rumsfeld and Reagan role-played doomsday scenarios as top level officials.

'We would have a scenario that was a nuclear war,' Jim Wink, who oversaw the
role-playing and preparation, told the Discovery Channel. 'Washington, D.C.
would get wiped out. The president of the United States would be killed and the
senior candidate out there would become the president.'

Wink said top-level cabinet officials would be secluded for up to three days
during the exercises.

'The way the exercises were carried out was in the utmost secrecy and they would
tell no one -- not even tell their wives -- where they would be,' said national
security expert James Mann.

The annual budget for the U.S. doomsday plan is between $5 billion and $6
billion dollars.

Much of the country's emergency preparation falls to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, or FEMA, which also handles natural disasters, such as
Superstorm Sandy.

Roughly 30 percent of FEMA head Craig Fugate's job is dealing with the secret
continuity programs, according to U.S. News and World Report.

The U.S. Air Force is also a key part of the plan. The Air Force has a a
strategic command center dedicated to emergency preparation at its at Offutt Air
Force base near Omaha, which houses four Boeing 747s designed to allow the
president to govern from the air.

Video: Get an inside look at the federal government's Doomsday plane

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 7, 2012 Wednesday

Terrorist attack reportedly kills ten in Syria

LENGTH: 66 words


Text of report in English by Lebanese Hezbollah Al-Manar TV website on 6
November

[Unattributed report: "Terrorist Attack Kills 10, Wounds 30 in Syria"]

Syrian news agency SANA reported that a terrorist bombing hit a bus stop in
Al-Woroud neighbourhood in Qudsaya, Damascus countryside, killing ten people and
wounding 30 others.

Source: Al-Manar Television website, Beirut, in English 1950 gmt 6 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 7, 2012 Wednesday 4:12 PM GMT

Marines accused of murdering Taliban fighter win anonymity to prevent terror
attack;
Five Royal Marine Commandos accused of murdering a Taliban fighter have been
granted anonymity amid fears they will be targeted by terrorists.

BYLINE: By Tom Whitehead Security Editor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 406 words


A senior judge has ruled the men's identity must remain a secret throughout
their military trial to protect them, their families and even their communities.

Judge Jeff Blackett, most senior military court judge, said naming the men could
make them a "cause célèbre" for jihadists, terrorists and lone wolf attackers.

He rejected media challenges to the anonymity order and concluded there was a
"real and immediate" risk to their lives from Jihadist attacks.

The men are expected to face a military trial next year after video footage
showing an injured Taliban prisoner in Afghanistan was found on a soldier's
laptop.

A number of men are allegedly heard discussing what to do with the man just
before the film is said to cut out.

Judge Blackett, the Judge Advocate General, heard submissions over the men's
anonymity during a hearing on Monday, including a threat assessment from
Government's Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre, which he heard in private.

In his ruling, published today, the judge said that a security expert had
concluded: "If the names of the defendants were published there would be an
increased risk to their lives, particularly from "lone wolves", that being
people who are motivated to act alone, rather than in organised cells and who
are more difficult for the intelligence community to track.

"He also said that a threat would be posed to friends, family and the local
community where the defendants live.

"He said that there may well be revenge attacks on other members of the British
and allied Armed Forces in Afghanistan, caused by the publication of this case,
and they could increase if the defendants' names were published.

"However the risk to the individual defendants would certainly increase if they
were named. By naming them their background can be researched through the
internet, their names would be posted on Jihadist websites and their names could
become the focus of a cause célèbre."

The judge said: "I am satisfied that, within the context of this case (including
the unpredictability of terrorist attacks and the ongoing operations in
Afghanistan) there would be a real and immediate risk to the lives of the
defendants were they to be identified by name.

"That risk is from Jihadist cells or extremists motivated to act alone either
now or in the future and will increase significantly as the case progresses."

The judge said he would reassess the order if any of the men are found guilty.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           November 8, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

My grief over Steo triggered heart attack terror

BYLINE: AARON TINNEY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 53 words


STEPHEN Gately's devastated brother feared he was about to die of the same heart
defect that killed the Boyzone singer. Tony Gately, 31, said his Sudden Cardiac
Death scare was brought on by grief on the third anniversary of tragic Steo's
passing.

He also blasted gay taunts about Ronan Keating. Full Story - Page Seven

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Taunt fury . . Ronan fling smear
Close ... Stephen & Tony, right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2012 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2012 Saturday

Anti-Al-Qa'idah militiamen foil terrorist attack in southern Yemen - Xinhua

LENGTH: 254 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

Aden, Yemen, 9 Nov: A group of pro-government militiamen thwarted a planned
terrorist attack by Al-Qa'idah militants in Yemen's southern province of Abyan
on Friday [9 Nov], a security official told Xinhua.

The anti-Al-Qa'idah militiamen managed to foil a planned suicide operation,
capturing two suicide bombers in the eastern entrance of Luader town in Abyan
province, the local security official said, requesting anonymity.

"Two Al-Qa'idah suicide bombers were captured. They may have been planning to
attack a key checkpoint manned by pro-government militiamen near Luader," the
security source said.

"Suicide vests lined with explosives were found in their possession," he added.

The pro-government militiamen are still searching for Al-Qa'idah suspects who
were involved in the plot, according to the official.

The Yemen-based Al-Qa'idah offshoot has exploited Yemen's year- long security
vacuum during protests against the long-time ruler Ali Abdullah Saleh and
controlled several southern cities for more than one year before they were
driven out by a US-backed army offensive.

On 20 June, Yemen's military officials announced seizing Al-Qa'idah's last
bastion in the country's troubled south following the military offensive.
However, local military and anti-terrorism experts said the Yemeni Al-Qa'idah
branch remained a major threat to the impoverished Arab country.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 2040gmt 09 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 10, 2012 Saturday

Syrian army foils "terrorist" car bomb attack in Aleppo suburb - state media

LENGTH: 93 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["A 150kg car bomb terrorist attack foiled in Al-Midan, Aleppo"]

Aleppo, 9 November: The Armed Forces, in cooperation with the security
authorities, foiled on Friday a terrorist car bomb attack in al-Midan
neighbourhood in Aleppo.

The authorities dismantled 150kg of explosives which were planted in a white
Mitsubishi Galant car and arrested the terrorists Omar Kamal al-Deiri and
Mustafa Mohammad Hamada who were driving the car.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 9 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                           November 10, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bookies staff's axe raid terror;
Shocked workers forced to flee attacker

BYLINE: SOPHIE DOUGHTY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 370 words


TERRIFIED bookies staff ran for cover as an armed raider hurled an axe at them.

The robber stormed the Betfred Bookmakers, in the Boulevard shopping centre, in
Longbenton, on Thursday night.

Two members of staff who were behind the counter fled into a nearby room for
safety.

The raider then escaped with a small amount of cash.

Police have arrested and questioned a 23-year-old man over the attack, who was
later released on bail.

And today as officers continue to appeal for witnesses, people working in the
area have told of their shock.

A 22-year-old shop assistant, who did not want to be named, said: "I know the
staff there quite well, but I haven't spoken to them yet, so I don't know
exactly what happened.

"It is scary to think they had used an axe. It's a bit close to home for me."

The raid happened at around 9pm.

No one was injured, but staff were left shaken by their ordeal.

Paul Jewell, 48, who runs a hardware store nearby, said the raid was unusual for
the area.

"I heard there were a lot of police cars around that night," he said. "I have
been here over 30 years now, and it's a lot better now than it used to be. We
have had bad times but, it has calmed down a lot. It was like Beirut around here
before the new shops opened."

This is the second raid at a Tyneside betting shop in two days.

At just after 8.30pm on Tuesday, two men, one armed with a blade, went into
Ladbrokes on Jesmond Road, in Newcastle.

No one was injured but staff were left shocked Police are now warning would-be
robbers that there is little to be gained from raiding bookies.

Northumbria Police's North Tyneside Chief Insp Mandy Shea said: "People are
mistaken in thinking there are large quantities of cash lying around in
bookmaker's shops - this is not the case.

"Bookmakers employ cash minimisation practices, which mean there is very little
cash in the store at any one time.

"Northumbria Police is working closely with betting shops across the region,
making stores even more secure and ensuring that practices are put in place that
make it easier to catch offenders."

Anyone with any information about the robbery is asked to contact Northumbria
Police on 101 ext 69191, or alternatively contact Crimestoppers anonymously on
0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2012 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                               November 10, 2012

Police give advice to visitors on terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS WANDSWORTH

LENGTH: 83  words


Police hosted an event informing people of what to do if there is a terrorist
attack.

Project Griffin took place in the Clapham Grand, Saint John's Hill, Battersea on
Thursday.

The day aimed to establish relationships between the police and the community,
with the chance to hear talks from specialist officers.

Visitors learned how to deal with threats posed by terrorism, as well as how to
deal with suspicious items.

There are plans to host future sessions for people to keep aware of any
developments.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 12, 2012 Monday 3:43 PM GMT

Pakistan details how Lashkar-e-Taiba 2008 Mumbai attack gunmen were trained;
Pakistani officials have given details of how alleged leaders of the
Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist group trained the ten 'fedayeen' gunmen who carried
out the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks in Karachi.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 370 words


Their disclosures are regarded as a significant move towards bringing the
masterminds of the 2008 atrocity, in which 166 were killed, to justice.

They have also been welcomed in India as an indicator that Islamabad is anxious
to further normalise relations between the two countries which came close to war
in the months following the attacks.

At the time Indian prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh said he believed elements
within Pakistan's security establishment must have aided the terrorists, while
Pakistan appeared to resist India's investigation.

Since then, in particular over the last 18 months, relations have improved
considerably and Islamabad is now hoping the Indian prime minister will visit
before next year's elections.

Interior Minister Rehman Malik is expected to visit India this year to seal
moves to liberalise visa regimes between the two countries, and Pakistan's first
cricket tour of India since the 2008 attacks will begin next month.

The disclosures, by five intelligence officials, mark significant progress from
Islamabad's initial reaction to the attacks when it denied any of the terrorists
were from Pakistan.

Five members of Pakistan's crime investigation department told an anti-terrorism
court in Rawalpindi that Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, believed to be the LeT's
operational commander, his suspected senior aide Zarar Shah, and five other men
trained the recruits at Yousaf Goth in Karachi and at other LeT bases in
Manshra, Thatta and Muzzafarabad, according to the English language daily, Dawn.

Yousaf Goth is close to Karachi's shore from where the Mumbai attackers launched
their mission.

The prosecutor in the case told the court the five officials had kept the
militant group under observation and that informers had told them of the
terrorist training which had taken place at the camps.

Vikram Sood, a leading security commentator and former head of India's
intelligence agency, the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), said he remained
suspicious of the sudden co-operative turn of Pakistani officials and urged
caution on the government.

"Suddenly they are extremely co-operative. I'm not sure how long it will last
and the level of trust is still not there. We have to wait a while," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 13, 2012 Tuesday

Police on high alert after agencies warn of terror attack in Indian capital

LENGTH: 260 words


Text of report headlined "High alert in Delhi after RAW warns of terror attack"
published by Indian newspaper Zee News website on 13 November

New Delhi: Security arrangements in the national capital have been tightened
after intelligence agencies warned of a terror strike by militant outfit Indian
Mujahideen (IM), reports claimed on Tuesday [13 November].

According to reports, the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and Delhi police have
claimed that terrorists can attack Delhi Metro and International Trade Fair at
Pragati Maidan on 14 November.

The agencies also warned that three IM operatives have entered the national
capital to execute their plans.

The agencies claimed to have got a tip-off from Saudi Arabia. Delhi Police
sources said that a person based in Saudi Arabia informed a senior official of
the city police over phone on November 1 that some suspicious persons were
planning a terror attack in Delhi.

Delhi police further claimed that their officers along with RAW members went to
Saudi capital Riyadh and interviewed the caller who described the persons. He
provided more details on the plot.

The police claimed the descriptions of the suspected persons appeared to match
that of Riyaz Bhatkal, who is the alleged mastermind of serial blasts in New
Delhi, Hyderabad and Jaipur in 2008.

After the inputs received from the intelligence agencies, police presence has
been increased and metal detectors and CCTV cameras have been installed at
important places to avoid any untoward incident.

Source: Zee News TV website, New Delhi, in English 13 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 14, 2012 Wednesday

Palestinian refugees in Syria blame spate of terrorist attacks on Israel, US

LENGTH: 178 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Yarmouk popular committees: A US-backed Israeli decision behind gunmen's
attacks" - SANA headline]

Damascus, (SANA) - Popular committees in Al-Yarmouk camp in Damascus stressed
that the continued aggression of the armed terrorist groups on the camp confirms
that there is a US-backed Israeli decision to overthrow it and perpetrate a
political and human massacre against its residents.

"The armed terrorist groups today continued launching mortars of sabotage and
grudge against the Palestinian people in the camp , claiming the lives of 6
martyrs and injuring many others. In turn, the popular committees were able to
confront an intensified attack by those groups, killing and injuring a number of
them," A statement by the committees announced on Tuesday [13 November].

They added that it is the Palestinian people's right to defend themselves in the
face of the terrorist groups who resume their attacks on the Palestinians in the
camp.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 14 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 15, 2012 Thursday

Israeli Arab jailed for life for killing 1, wounding 17 in 2011 terror attack

LENGTH: 216 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 14 November

[Report by Yonah Jeremy Bob: "Nakba Day attack truck driver sentenced to life"]

A truck driver who killed a man and wounded 17 others during a terror attack in
Tel Aviv on "Nakba Day" last year was sentenced to life imprisonment plus an
additional 40 years for murder, attempted murder, causing aggravated bodily
injury and endangering human life.

The murder and attempted murder convictions carried the life prison sentence
plus an additional 36 years in prison. The sentences for causing aggravated
bodily harm and for endangering human life each added an additional two years to
the sentence. The sentences started to run from May 15, 2011, the date of the
offences.

The truck driver, Ibrahim Islam Issa, was convicted in July in a unanimous
ruling in which the Tel Aviv District Court said that the 23-year-old Kfar Kasim
resident was guilty of premeditated murder when he swerved his 15-ton Volvo
truck into a line of vehicles and pedestrians on a busy Tel Aviv road. The
attack occurred on May 15, 2011, the date Palestinians mark as "Nakba Day," a
day of mourning marking the anniversary of the founding of the State of Israel.

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 14 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 15, 2012 Thursday

Turkish website views probe into 1993 terror attack

LENGTH: 752 words


Text of report in English by Turkish newspaper Today's Zaman website on 15
November

15 November 2012 / MUSTAFA GuRLEK / FATiH YALciNER, Istanbul: A military
prosecutor who investigated the deaths of 33 soldiers in an armed terrorist
attack that took place in the eastern province of Bingol in 1993 has said that
missing documents related to the case are probably in the archives of the 8th
Army Corps.

News reports emerged earlier this week that the documents have gone missing and
that the Diyarbakir Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has been unable to get the
documents for several months now.

Retired military prosecutor inayet Tas told Today's Zaman that the records are
not missing. "A lot of time has passed since the documents were prepared. They
are most probably at the 8th Army Corps [in Elazig]. Or they may have been sent
to the archives [at the General Staff] in Ankara," he stated.

On May 24, 1993, a group of about 150 terrorists of the Kurdistan Workers' Party
(PKK) blocked the Elazig-Bingol highway, stopping several buses that were
transferring unarmed Turkish soldiers in civilian clothing. They dragged 33
soldiers from their vehicles and executed them.

A military investigation was launched to look into the incident immediately, and
three members of the Turkish Armed Forces (TSK) were given prison sentences
based on charges of negligence of duty. Shortly afterwards, however, the
Military Supreme Court of Appeals appealed the verdict and the case file was
sent to a civilian court. The file was transferred between military courts and
civilian courts for years, and it eventually went missing though the case
remains open.

The Diyarbakir Chief Public Prosecutor's Office initiated a new probe to
investigate the killing of the 33 soldiers earlier this year. Prosecutors are
focused on a number of serious questions left unanswered after the attack, such
as the fact that the soldiers were sent to join their military unit unarmed and
unaccompanied by armed soldiers.

The prosecutor's office recently asked the Bingol Criminal Court of First
instance, which heard the case previously, about the case file documents. The
court said it has no documents, and added that it had sent all of the documents
to the Bingol Provincial and District Administration Board to get the opinion of
experts about the attack. The prosecutor's office found it unusual that the
court sent the documents to the board and asked the board to send the related
documents to prosecutors investigating the Bingol attack, but the board said it
does not possess any such documents.

As a last resort, the Diyarbakir Chief Public Prosecutor's Office sent a
communique to the General Staff asking whether it has any documents related to
the case file of the Bingol attack. That office has yet to respond.

According to Tas, he interrogated several members of the military, regardless of
their rank, in connection with the deadly attack and prepared an indictment
about the incident. "But I do not have a copy of the indictment. I wish I had
kept a copy. None of us guessed at the time that the killing of these soldiers
would take on this dimension," he stated.

The retired prosecutor also said that during his investigation he discovered
that intelligence had been obtained by military authorities about plans for the
fatal attack but that they did not take measures to prevent it. "i examined all
the intelligence reports of the time. I saw that intelligence stating that a
terrorist attack was being plotted was shared with the required [military]
authorities," he said, and added that he retired after preparing the indictment.
"i did what fell on my shoulders. My conscience is at ease," he said.

The Bingol attack came at a time when the then-government was working to solve
the Kurdish question. The attack broke a PKK cease-fire that had been declared
as a result of the efforts of then-President Turgut Ozal to establish dialogue
with the PKK to solve the long-standing Kurdish problem. The military was later
criticized for the fact that the soldiers had been unarmed and given no
protection.

Kazim Kansiz, the father of one of the slain soldiers, also spoke to Today's
Zaman about the attack and said that the case file was destroyed by "dark
circles that do not wish their dirty game to be exposed." He also said that the
game would be exposed only if a soldier who survived the attack spoke out. "He
remains silent. Everything will be exposed if he speaks," Kansiz said.

Source: Zaman website, Istanbul, in English 15 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                           November 15, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'LESS THAN FIVE MINUTES, BUT IT FELT LIKE IT WAS FOR EVER';
Victim relives night of terror at hands of sex attackers

BYLINE: Sam Malone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 624 words


A SEX attack victim has issued a desperate plea for help in finding a gang of
men who cornered her in an alley and subjected her to a degrading assault.

The woman has been left scared of going out in public and has become a "prisoner
in her own home" since the attack on Bonfire Night.

Detectives have released an e-fit of a suspect but so far he has not been
identified.

Now, the victim has bravely spoken out in the hope of catching those
responsible.

Reliving her ordeal, the 23-year-old woman told how she was walking along an
alley which runs parallel with Rogerstone Close in the Crickhowell Road area of
St Mellons, Cardiff, when she became aware of a group of men walking in the
opposite direction towards her. She recalled how she tried to make way for the
gang to pass but was instead surrounded and assaulted.

"There were about five or six of them and a dog, a big thing with huge teeth,"
she said.

"As a young woman on my own, I felt a bit vulnerable, especially walking down a
narrow path as it had just got dark.

"There is a wall on one side of the path and I moved closer towards it, partly
so that I could let them get through and I think partly as a kind of defence
mechanism.

"But instead of walking past, they fanned out around me until I had my back
against the wall.

"They were all laughing and joking and making comments about me.

"The ring-leader moved closer to me and pulled open my coat and touched me on my
left breast as the others made comments about it and laughed.

"Another guy who was holding onto the dog then touched me between the legs.

"It was over in less than five minutes but it felt like forever."

Following the incident, the woman rushed home where her housemate convinced her
to tell the police.

But since then, she has become depressed and scared to go out alone.

"Now I feel so vulnerable going out," she said.

"I went to work for the first time the other day, having hardly left the house
for a week and just sitting on the bus was horrible.

"I looked at some young men and I felt really scared - to the extent I just
wanted to get off and go back home."

She added: "I've been quite depressed since it happened and I haven't wanted to
go out.

"When I have been out with my housemates, I've held their hands so hard they
complain I'm breaking them.

"And while I was in Tesco, there was a couple with a couple of dogs but I just
couldn't go anywhere near them - I had to beg my housemate to leave."

A spokeswoman for South Wales Police said: "The investigation is ongoing and
there have been no arrests as yet.

"We would like to thank those who have already contacted us with information
following the recent appeal in the South Wales Echo and would urge anyone else
with information, no matter how insignificant it might seem, to call either the
CID at Rumney Police Station on 02920 774233 or Crimestoppers anonymously on
0800 555111."

DID YOU SEE ATTACK SUSPECTS? POLICE continue to investigate the allegation of
sexual assault, saying the woman was left "very shaken" by the incident.

The incident happened between 5pm and 5.30pm on November 5 (Bonfire Night).

Police officers have also released a description of two of the attackers.

The man said to be the ringleader is described as being white, aged in his early
20s, of stocky build, with yellow teeth, bushy eyebrows, and hair growth on his
top lip.

Officers have released an e-fit of this suspect.

Another, said to be holding a tan coloured bull mastiff type dog, is described
as white, in his mid-20s, of stocky build with an eyebrow piercing to left
eyebrow.

He had short cropped hair and sunken eyes with a flat nose and wide nostrils.

Anyone with information is asked to contact the CID at Rumney Police Station on
02920 774233 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The footpath in St Mellons where the attack occurred, above, and right,
an e-fit picture of one of the suspects

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2012 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            November 16, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Raging bull strikes twice;
African safari turns to terror as elephant attacks car convoy carrying tourists

BYLINE: SAM SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 243 words


A RAMPAGING elephant attacked two British tourists by flipping their car on its
roof during a safari in South Africa.

The bull elephant thrust its tusk through the driver's door before scooping the
car up and turning it over in Kruger National Park.

It injured British driver Chris Hare, but his fiancee Helen Jennings, escaped
unscathed.

They had to wait inside the Hyundai Atos for the elephant to leave before Mr
Hare sank down in shock by the roadside, holding his injury.

He was treated at the scene by a doctor and taken to hospital.

The 40-year-olds were celebrating their engagement at the world famous resort on
Monday.

Speaking yesterday, Miss Jennings' mother, Barbara, from Durham, said: 'I spoke
to Helen just after it happened.

'They thought they were going to die. I'm so relieved they are OK.

'They just started their holiday and had arrived in Africa on Saturday November
10.

'They have another ten days left but they were really shaken up. I just want to
thank the people who came to their aid after it happened. They were looked after
really well.' The attacked occurred a few minutes after the beast rammed a white
Chevrolet Aveo. It lifted the car off the ground and dropped it.

It then marched off into the bush, reemerging around a bend to attack the silver
Hyundai.

Eyewitness Vasti Fourie, who filmed the attack, said: 'It happened so quickly.
I've never seen anything like this and I'm sure they haven't either.'

'They were really shaken up by this'

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Double attack: The Chevrolet Aveo was rammed, main picture, before the
elephant speared the British couple's Hyundai
PICTURES: VASTI FOURIE/BARCROFT MEDIA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 17, 2012 Saturday

Albanian Foreign Ministry condemns "terrorist" rocket attacks on Israel

LENGTH: 133 words


Text of report in English by Albanian state news agency ATA

[Unattributed report: "FM Expresses Concern Over Rising Tensions in Gaza Strip"]

Tirana, 16 November (ATA) - The Foreign Ministry of the Republic of Albania
expresses concern over the tense situation in the south of Israeli State and in
the Gaza Strip, where, as a result of rocket attacks by terrorist movement Hamas
inside Israel State territory as well as of the Israeli counterattack, innocent
civilians from both sides, among whom children and women, have lost their lives.

In a press release, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs severely "condemns the
rocket attacks of Hamas and its factions on the Israeli State, and calls for an
immediate halt to violence and for restoration of peace."

Source: ATA, Tirana, in English 2051 gmt 17 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                           November 17, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Moment of terror a crazed knifeman attacks;
Hunt is on to catch store raider who was after cigarettes

BYLINE: DAN WARBURTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 289 words


WILDLY waving a knife, this raider threatens staff at a Tyneside store.

Detectives today launched a manhunt after the hooded man stormed the shop in
North Shields.

But the suspect wasn't after cash - he went straight for the cigarettes during
the 10pm robbery. Now officers have released CCTV footage of the images in a bid
to trace the attacker. And Det Cons Ed Massey made a plea for information as he
stepped-up his inquiries into the attack.

He said: "We're making extensive inquiries in relation to this robbery and now
have CCTV stills of the man inside the shop who we need to trace."

Police were called to the Co-op food store on Cleveland Road, North Shields, on
Thursday night.

Terrified shop workers raised the alarm at around at about 10pm after the man -
who had pulled a scarf over his face - targeted the store.

He entered the store, threatened staff with a kitchen knife and stole a quantity
of Lambert and Butler cigarettes.

No-one was injured during the raid but store workers were left shocked after the
attack.

Officers have been trawling through images captured from the shop's CCTV Det Con
Massey said: "While no-one was injured, this was obviously distressing for the
staff and we're doing everything we can to find this man.

"I'd urge anyone with information about who he is to contact us as soon as
possible.

"Any witnesses to the robbery or anyone with information about it is also asked
to get in touch."

Detectives probing the robbery say they need to trace this man in connection
with the robbery. Anyone with any information is asked to contact police on 101
ext 69191.

Alternatively anyone who saw the incident or who knows anything about it can
ring the independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DO YOU KNOW HIM? Police are appealing for help to catch him
HELP CATCH HIM The CCTV image of the raider in action on Thursday night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2012 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               November 17, 2012
                                 First Edition

Petraeus: Benghazi attacks by 'terrorists';
The news matrix Your weekend starts here UNITED STATES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 45 words


The former CIA Director David Petraeus told the House of Representatives
intelligence committee he and the spy agency had sought to make clear from the
outset that "there were extremists in the group" that launched the attack on
theUS diplomatic mission in Libya. PAGE 8

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2012 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           November 17, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Drugs boy, 15, subjected OAP to sex terror attack

BYLINE: Rebecca Sherdley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 379 words


A BOY of 15 has been locked up indefinitely after he attempted to "degrade and
humiliate" a pensioner by raping and sexually assaulting him.

Ben O'Neill had taken the party drug MCat, also known as 'meow meow' and
'bubble', before he picked on a 65-year-old man in Mansfield.

O'Neill was carrying a bottle of vodka as he walked up to the man, who cannot be
identified, and told him they were "going to have some fun together".

The man was "manhandled" into a field and was unable to resist what was
happening because of a disability, Nottingham Crown Court heard. The boy told
the terrified man he was going to have sex with him, forced him to the floor and
hit him in the face.

During a terrifying ten-minute ordeal, the boy performed a form of rape, tried
to rape him and subjected him to a serious sexual assault before leaving him in
the field.

Afterwards, O'Neill turned up at he home of some school friends, drinking from a
bottle of alcohol, and effectively "took over", using their laptop and leaving
the house with it.

Judge John Milmo, QC, told O'Neill he would serve a minimum of three-and-a-half
years before he can apply for parole.

He is subject to detention for public protection, subjecting him to a life on
prison licence if he is ever suitable for release.

Judge Milmo said he was satisfied the offences represented a "deliberate attempt
to degrade and humiliate" the man.

O'Neill will be required to sign the sex offenders' register indefinitely after
his release from custody.

The day before the horrific sex attacks on the pensioner in August, the
teenager, of Beck Crescent, Mansfield, had been involved in robbing a
24-year-old man next to Mansfield Woodhouse Railway Station.

The victim had been walking alone at 9.15pm, when he saw a group of 20 youths
shouting and laughing.

O'Neill and a second man then broke away and attacked him.

O'Neill grabbed him in a bear hug and the other man inflicted the violence,
hitting him on the head with a bottle and leaving him unconscious, the court
heard.

The following day, at 6.30am, O'Neill stole a bottle of vodka from a supermarket
in order to sell to buy MCat.

An hour-and-a-half later he attacked the pensioner. He admitted robbery, two
thefts - the vodka and laptop - rape, attempted rape and the serious sexual
assault.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Locked up: Ben O'Neill subjected a man to a terrifying ten-minute
ordeal.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEP


                     Copyright 2012 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      November 18, 2012 Sunday 7:45 PM GMT

Congress wants to know who came up with 'talking points' that Benghazi attack
WASN'T terrorism

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 701 words


Lawmakers said Sunday they want to know who had a hand in creating the Obama
administration's now-discredited 'talking points' about the September 11 attack
on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya, and why a final draft omitted the
CIA's early conclusion that terrorists were involved.

The answers could explain why President Barack Obama and top aides, including
U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice, described the attack for days afterward as a protest
against an anti-Islam video that spontaneously turned violent and why they
played down any potential link to al-Qaida, despite evidence to the contrary.

Administration officials have defended the portrayal of the attack as relying on
the best information available at the time that didn't compromise classified
intelligence. Democrats say CIA and other intelligence officials signed off on
the final talking points.

Republicans have alleged a Watergate-like cover up, accusing White House aides
of hiding the terrorism link in the run-up to the November 6 presidential
election so voters wouldn't question Obama's claim that al-Qaida's power had
diminished.

'I know the narrative was wrong and the intelligence was right.... We're going
to get to the bottom of how that happened,' said Rep Mike Rogers, a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the House Intelligence Committee.

Sen Dianne Feinstein, who heads the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she too
has lingering concerns about how the talking points were created when it was
clear early on that the military-style assault wasn't a simple protest gone
awry.

She said Congress has asked the administration to provide an explanation.

'We gave the direction yesterday that this whole process is going to be checked
out,' said Feinstein, A California Democrat. 'We're going to find out who made
changes in the original statement. Until, we do I really think it's unwarranted
to make accusations.'

The inquiry comes on the heels of closed testimony to the committees last week
by former CIA Director David Petraeus.

According to lawmakers who attended the meetings, Petraeus said the reference to
al-Qaida was removed from the final version of talking points, although he
wasn't sure which federal agency deleted it.

A senior U.S. official familiar with the document, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the official was not authorized to discuss the process
publicly, said the al-Qaida reference was deleted because the information came
from classified sources and the links were tenuous.

Lawmakers said Capitol Hill briefings last week represented the FBI, State
Department and CIA, but officials did not address what role political appointees
such as Rice might have played in the generation of the talking points.
Republicans said they want Rice to testify about what she knew and when she knew
it.

'What I do know is that every member in the intelligence community says that
references to al-Qaida were removed by somebody, they don't know who,' said Sen
Saxby Chambliss, a Republican from Georgia.

Sen Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat and chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee, said Petraeus had signed off on the final talking points and that
going after Rice was a useless witch hunt.

But Rep Peter King said senior intelligence officials were strong-armed into
doing so.

'Well, they had no choice,' said King, a Republican from New York and chairman
of the House Homeland Security Committee. 'They had no choice at that stage.'

King did not elaborate on how he would know whether Petraeus was compelled to
sign off on the talking points, and the lawmaker did not give any more details
to bolster his allegation.

Sen Olympia Snowe, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she
expects the committee will hold at least three more hearings on the matter and
publish a report on its findings.

'It took 17 days for the director of national intelligence even to issue a
statement to say that it was a deliberate and organized terrorist attack,' said
Snowe, a Maine Republican. 'That's unacceptable in today's environment.'

Feinstein and Rogers spoke on NBC's 'Meet the Press.' Levin and King were on
ABC's 'This Week.' Chambliss appeared on "Fox News Sunday" and Snowe was on CBS'
'Face the Nation.'

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

Kazakh police undergoing reforms following 2011 terror attacks - minister

LENGTH: 246 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 19 November: The Kazakh Interior Ministry plans to reconsider the system
of managing the internal troops, which is becoming a key power component in
crisis situations, Kazakh Interior Minister Kalmukhanbet Kasymov has said.

"Following the acts of terrorism and armed conflicts with criminals in [western]
Aktobe and Atyrau as well as in [southern] Almaty and Zhambyl regions, we looked
at the training and combat readiness of the personnel from a different angle. We
are now fundamentally reorganizing the personnel and have altered approaches to
the system of providing professional training to police officers on the whole,"
he said at today's "government hour" in the Majlis [lower house of parliament].

Kasymov said the Interior Ministry was staking on developing the internal
troops, "the ministry's key power component when reacting to possible crisis
situations".

"Therefore, we are stepping up the law-enforcement aspect of their activities
(...) [ellipses as published] Next year we are planning to optimize the
structure of the internal troops and bring their management system in compliance
with the [country's] military doctrine. Specifically, we plan to switch from a
brigade system to a regional system of command," Kasymov noted, adding that a
relevant draft law had already been submitted to the parliament's Majlis.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 0453 gmt 19 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

Pakistan interior minister warns of more terror attacks in coming days

LENGTH: 245 words


Text of report published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 20 November.

Islamabad: Federal Interior Minister Rehman Malik has said that Karachi and
Quetta are being targeted through organised campaigns and more terror activities
are expected in the coming days across the country. Talking to media persons
here on Monday [19 November], Rehman Malik pointed out that a third party was
involved in the violent activities in Karachi and other cities during Muharram.

The minister instructed the chief secretaries of all the provinces and law
enforcement authorities to park motorcycles half a kilometre away from
Imambargahs and added that cars must be parked a kilometre away from the
religious gathering points. Malik also ruled out sectarian divide in the country
saying, "there is no sectarianism in Pakistan and everyone is Muslim." The
interior minister said that the party had authorised him to take steps for
ensuring protection to public lives and properties. He claimed that law
enforcement authorities had traced the elements involved in Karachi killings,
and they would be booked soon and a breakthrough in this regard was expected
within a couple of days.

Rehman Malik said that after 30 November, all unregistered SIMs would be
blocked.-INPAPP adds: Rehman Malik appealed to Ulema to play their due role for
peace in Karachi and Quetta as some elements were trying to achieve their vested
interests.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 20 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

"Terrorist' attack said targeted Syrian Ministry of Information headquarters

LENGTH: 55 words


At 0819 GMT, Damascus Syrian Satellite Channel Television in Arabic carried the
following "breaking news" as a screen caption:

"Terrorists targeted the Ministry of Information building with two mortar
shells, causing material damage only."

Further as warranted.

Source: Syrian TV satellite service, Damascus, in Arabic 0819 gmt 20 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     November 20, 2012 Tuesday 6:04 AM GMT

Quartet 'planned terror attacks'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 135 words


Four men from California have been charged with plotting to kill Americans
overseas and in the United States by joining al Qaida and the Taliban in
Afghanistan.

FBI spokeswoman Laura Eimiller said they were under arrest for plotting to bomb
government facilities and public places.

According to the federal complaint, unsealed during initial appearances,
34-year-old Sohiel Omar Kabir introduced two other California men to the radical
Islamist doctrine of now-dead al Qaida leader Anwar al-Awlaki.

Authorities say Kabir traveled to Afghanistan and communicated with the two -
Ralph Deleon, 23, and Miguel Alejandro Santana Vidriales, 21 - so he could
arrange for their travel to join him and meet his contacts for terror
organisations.

They later recruited 21-year-old Arifeen David Gojali, according to authorities.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2012 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                     November 20, 2012 Tuesday 5:46 PM GMT

A grenade, guns, weapon manuals and a bomb kit: Terrifying haul found at home of
'Polish nationalist planning terror attack'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 742 words



     ·    Suspect 'planned to detonate four tonnes of explosives outside
          parliament'
     ·    He is a 'scientist with fascination with Norwegian mass killer Anders
          Breivik'
     ·    Analysis of Breivik's contacts abroad led investigators to Polish
          suspect
     ·    Video taken from 45-year-old shows test explosion, prosecutors claim
     ·    'He had assembled pistols, ammunition and remote-controlled
          detonators'
     ·    Claims he was acting on nationalistic, anti-Semitic and xenophobic
          motives


A radical Polish nationalist has been arrested on suspicion of plotting to
detonate four tonnes of explosives outside his country's parliament while the
president and prime minister were inside.

Polish officials said the suspect was a scientist who had a 'fascination' with
Norwegian mass murderer Anders Behring Breivik, who killed 77 people in bomb and
gun attacks last year.

The 45-year-old was arrested after analysis of Breivik's contacts abroad helped
lead Polish investigators to him.

A video recording taken from the suspect showed what prosecutors said was a test
explosion he conducted, leaving a large crater in the ground.

Scroll down for video of the suspect's 'test explosion'

Prosecutors said the scientist works for a university in the southern city of
Krakow and had assembled a small arsenal of explosive material, guns and
remote-controlled detonators and was trying to recruit others to help him.

Polish television, citing sources close to the investigation, said the suspect
planned to copy methods used by Breivik said he was driven by far-right views
like the Norwegian.

Prime Minister Donald Tusk told a news conference: 'The would-be bomber did not
hide his fascination with Breivik. This should not be ignored.  This should be a
warning and a good lesson to Poland in the future.

'This is a new and dramatic experience. So far, we have had no experience with
these kind of incidents.'

Prosecutor Piotr Krason told a news conference that the suspect did not belong
to a political group or party.

'He claims that he was acting on nationalistic, anti-Semitic and xenophobic
motives,' he said.

'He carried out reconnaissance in the neighbourhood of the Sejm (parliament).
This building was to be the target of the attack. He collected explosives and
materials for detonation.

Poland has no experience of militant violence in its modern history. Society is
though deeply polarised between supporters of liberal values and those who
believe the country is neglecting its Catholic roots and succumbing to foreign
influence.

Earlier this month, a rally in the capital, Warsaw, by right-wing nationalists
turned violent, when youths in the crowd started throwing flares and stones at
police.

Earlier on Tuesday, prosecutors said they had initiated legal proceedings
against the bomb plot suspect on Nov. 5 and that Poland's Internal Security
Agency would handle the case.

'The case looks very serious,' Pawel Gras, a government spokesman, told TOK FM
radio station. 'We know that the possible targets were to be the president, the
parliament and the government.'

Polish society is deeply polarised between liberals and those who believe the
country is neglecting its Catholic roots and succumbing to foreign influence.

Most right-wing groups renounce violence, but some on the margins are more
radical. A rally in the capital, Warsaw, this month by right-wing nationalists
turned violent, when youths in the crowd started throwing flares and stones at
police.

Prosecutors produced evidence suggesting the unidentified suspect was planning a
sophisticated attack.

They showed reporters photographs of pistols and bags of ammunition which they
said he had bought in Poland and in Belgium.

They also showed several vehicle licence plates, both Polish and foreign, which
they said had been found among his belongings.

They said the suspect had used his scientific background to assemble the
explosives himself. 'He is a specialist in the field,' prosecutor Krason said.

Officials said that they had found explosive substances including hexogen and
tetryl, as well as detonators that could be triggered remotely using a mobile
telephone.

The dean of the Agricultural University in Krakow, where prosecutors said the
arrested man worked, said the man had never given any reason for suspicion.

'It never occurred to us that at our school there could be a person involved in
such matters. There were no indications from his co-workers that anything
unusual was happening,' Roman Sady said.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

Poles arrest terror attack academic

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 118 words


The attack was timed to occur while the president, prime minister, government
ministers and MPs were inside. Officials said that they had arrested the suspect
in Krakow on November 9. They did not name the man but described him as a
45-year-old Polish academic researcher with access to chemistry labs and who had
explosive materials, munitions and guns. Prosecutors said he was motivated by
nationalistic, xenophobic and anti-semitic ideas but did not formally belong to
any political group. The man has confessed in part to the allegations made
against him. If he is convicted he could face up to five years in prison. Two
others working with him have also been arrested for the illegal possession of
weapons.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

British use of drones at heart of 'secret war';
MPs test legitimacy of attacks on terror suspects MPs to test British use of
drones at heart of secret war

BYLINE: Deborah Haynes

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,8,9

LENGTH: 920 words


MPs are to open an inquiry into Britain's use of drones to kill militants in a
move that could prompt the United States to reveal more about its "secret war".

Members of the Commons Defence Select Committee are to investigate the
deployment of armed unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in Afghanistan as part of a
two-year inquiry into the military's use of lethal force, The Times has learnt.

MPs and peers may also hold a joint debate on Britain's drone policy and the
ethics of killing targets remotely. In addition, ministers face calls to reveal
whether they share British intelligence with the US to help CIA-operated drones
to kill terror suspects in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia.

The programme, dubbed "America's secret war", is credited with weakening
al-Qaeda but causing hundreds of civilian casualties and fuelling a hatred of
the West.

James Arbuthnot, the Conservative chairman of the Defence Committee, said that
the issue of drones was gaining in importance as a larger proportion of the
Royal Air Force became unmanned. "An unmanned aerial vehicle is the same as any
other platform that fires weapons," he said. "The issues that are concerning
people are the distance between the person who is controlling that platform and
the death that results from it."

Drone technology is fast becoming one of the most important weapons in Britain's
arsenal. The RAF is doubling its fleet of armed Reaper drones in Afghanistan to
ten and shifting their base from the US to Britain.

Lord Hutton, a former Labour defence secretary, said that the weapon was the
"face of modern warfare" and welcomed greater debate on its use. "This is the
future of war fighting and deterrence. We need this technology and we need to
make sure that the public understands that."

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, a former Tory defence and foreign secretary, agreed. "This
is part of modern military capability, which will undoubtedly become much more
substantial."

Britain, the US and Israel are the only countries to have used armed drones -
Israeli missiles fired from unmanned aircraft were part of the assault on Gaza
last Wednesday - but scores of other states are following suit, including
Russia, China and Iran. In total, 76 nations are known to have drone programmes
but most of them are unarmed aircraft for surveillance.

Despite their increasing reliance on the aircraft, British and American secrecy
has hampered scrutiny of drones' effectiveness. Human rights campaigners say
that civilian deaths in many drone strikes amounts to a war crime. Christof
Heyns, the UN special rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary
killings, said that a debate in the British Parliament would be very important
in helping to encourage compliance with international law among the governments
that use drones.

"The international framework is clear but its enforcement, especially when it is
under stress, as is the case at the moment, depends to a large extent on
voluntary compliance by states," he said. "The role of especially the stronger
states, such as permanent members of the [UN] Security Council such as the UK,
will for better or worse shape the broader international reaction."

Philip Alstron, the previous UN special rapporteur on extrajudicial killing,
said that Britain could bring greater transparency on drone use by the US.

"If the British Government is forced to be more transparent and more
forthcoming, that puts great pressure on its allies, and public opinion
certainly in the United States will see that what they currently assume to be
the reasonable norm is not," Professor Alstron, who now lectures at New York
University School of Law, said.

The rapporteurs are concerned that CIA drone strikes in Pakistan could violate
international law because it is unclear that an armed conflict is taking place.
They also raise doubts about the US's justification for drone attacks.

Washington argues that, under the doctrine of self-defence after the 9/11
attacks, it has authority to hunt any al-Qaeda or Taleban militant anywhere in
the world.

"Self-defence requires action against an immediate threat," Professor Heyns
said. "The names of the people targeted [by the United States] are often for
months on a 'kill list', which does not suggest immediacy. It is not clear how
someone half way round the world can under these circumstances pose a threat
that meets the requirement of 'immediacy'."

Asked whether he was worried about other countries using the same argument of
self-defence, Professor Heyns said: "Indeed. A war of all against all. Drones
are weapons without borders."

The rapporteur noted alarming reports of civilian deaths and expressed concern
at allegations that US drones pursue people only because they are behaving
suspiciously, or fire on those who rush to the scene of an initial attack,
killing them as well.

"One of the big problems is the shortage of information - we simply do not know
what is true and can, as a result, not take informed decision," he said.
"Transparency is called for."

He plans to present a report on drones to the UN next year. "I also take up the
issue with the relevant governments in a direct on-and-off-therecord way," he
said.

More than 40 MPs and peers created an all-parliamentary group on drones last
month. They have called for greater transparency on the use of Britain's drones.
Lord Bates of Langbaurgh, a member of the group, said: "It is a growing and
obvious concern, not only how we use them in a way that is ethical, but how we
would defend against them being used in a hostile way."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

Explosion in bus in Israeli city of Tel Aviv in "possible" terror attack

LENGTH: 46 words


At 1005 correspondent Adi Me'iri reports live that there was an explosion aboard
a bus on Sha'ul Hamelekh Street in downtown Tel Aviv in a "possible" terrorist
attack. The radio notes that "there are casualties."

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 1005 gmt 21 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

Mumbai terror attacker executed in India

SECTION: ASIA PACIFIC

LENGTH: 209 words


NEW DELHI - India executed the only surviving perpetrator in 2008 Mumbai
terrorist attack Ajmal Kasab on Wednesday.

Kasab, 25, was hanged at 07:30 am local time at the Yerawada Jail in Pune in
western India, announced Maharashtra state home minister R. R. Patil.

When asked whether he had any last word or wish, Kasab replied "No", according
to local TV channel CNN-IBN.

Kasab was secretly transferred from the Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai earlier this
month to wait for execution after Indian President Pranab Mukherjee rejected his
mercy plea on Nov 8.

He was convicted and given capital punishment by the trial court on May 6, 2010
which was upheld by the Bombay High Court on February 21, 2011 and the Supreme
Court of India on Aug 29 this year.

"Due process of law has been followed," Patil told the media. "This is a true
homage to the innocent victims."

At least 166 people were killed when 10 Lashkar-e-Toiba terrorists from Pakistan
went on the rampage in Mumbai from Dec 26 to 28, 2008. Kasab was the sole gunman
captured alive.

Indian Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde, while confirming the execution, said
Pakistan was informed about the execution of Kasab, according to Press Trust of
India.

He said the judicial procedure of 26/11 case has been completed.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

Mumbai terrorist attacker Kasab executed

SECTION: ASIA PACIFIC

LENGTH: 65 words


NEW DELHI - Ajmal Kasab, the only terrorist caught alive in 2008 Mumbai attack,
was executed by hanging on Wednesday morning in the western Indian city of Pune,
said local TV reports.

He was hanged at the Yerawada Jail in Pune at 07:30 am local time.

Indian President Pranab Mukherjee rejected his mercy plea on Nov 5 before he was
shifted from Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail to Pune's Yerawada Jail.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

4th anniversary of Mumbai terror attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 137 words


4th anniversary of terrorist attacks on Mumbai which killed 166 plus nine gunmen
and injured nearly 300 when militants armed with grenades and assault rifles
targeted six sites across the city incl the five-star Taj Palace and Oberoi
Hotels, the main CST train station, and Leopolds cafe. Sieges at the hotels were
finally brought to a conclusion on 29 Nov 2008 with 10 militants identified, but
only one of them - Pakistani national Mohammad Ajmal Qasab - was captured alive.
He was sentenced to death in May 2010 and executed in November 2012 after the
rejection of his appeal for this to be commuted to life imprisonment. At least
28 foreigners were killed incl nationals from the U.S., Australia, Canada,
France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Japan, Singapore and Thailand

Event Start Date: 2012-11-26

Event End Date: 2012-11-26

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2012 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday

Mumbai terror attacks: surviving gunman hanged in India

BYLINE: Jason Burkeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 838 words

ABSTRACT

Mohammad Ajmal Amir Kasab is killed in Pune in India's first use of death
penalty since 2004

FULL TEXT

Mohammad Ajmal Amir Kasab, the only gunman to have survived the 2008 terrorist
attacks on Mumbai, has been hanged in the central Indian city of Pune and buried
in the prison yard.

It was the first time a capital sentence had been carried out in India since
2004 and only the third in the past 17 years. The Indian minister for home
affairs, Sushil Kumar Shinde, announced the execution, saying the president,
Pranab Mukherjee, had turned down Kasab's appeal for clemency. "It was decided
then that on 21 November at 7.30 in the morning he would be hanged. That
procedure has been completed today," Shinde told reporters on Wednesday morning.

Kasab, 24, was the only survivor of the group of gunmen who killed more than 160
people over three days in a string of attacks targeting luxury hotels, a railway
station, tourist cafes and a Jewish centre. A photograph of Kasab walking
through Mumbai's main railway station with an AK-47 assault rifle and a rucksack
crammed with ammunition became an enduring image of the attack.

Sachin Kalbag, editor of Mumbai's popular MidDay newspaper, said news of the
execution had brought "considerable relief across the city and joy in some
pockets where the most murders were committed".

"Any happiness is not over the execution but because there is now some kind of
closure for the families of those who died that day," he said.

Leaders of Lashkar-e-Taiba - the extremist group blamed by India for the attacks
- said Kasab "was a hero and will inspire other fighters to follow his path".

The Pakistan Taliban said they were shocked by the hanging. "There is no doubt
that it's very shocking news and a big loss that a Muslim has been hanged on
Indian soil," a spokesman told Reuters.

Others in Pakistan said the execution of Kasab would make it harder to prosecute
those who co-ordinated the attack by mobile phone from a house in Karachi, the
southern Pakistani port city.

"If we are to go after the network we have to have living evidence, but now we
only have what is in the files," said Khalid Munir, a retired army colonel.
"[Kasab] may have only been an operator, a foot soldier for those guiding him
but he could have given more information, given evidence in the Pakistani
courts. The Bombay case ends here," he said.

Pakistan's interior minister, Rehman Malik, has in the past said the country has
been unable to take action against Hafiz Saeed, the cleric accused of heading
Lashkar-e-Taiba, because evidence provided by India is "vague and insufficient".
Delhi has denied the claim.

Talat Masood, a former general, said the more important problem was a lack of
"political will" in Pakistan. "If they were really determined they could punish
these people, but the problem is the weakness of the state," he said. "They
think that at the moment they can't afford an angry reaction from the
militants."

Pakistan has denied that its security agencies are in anyway connected to the
attack and says it is prosecuting seven suspected militants for their role.

Testimony to American and Indian investigators from David Headley, a
Pakistani-American involved in the plot, implicated junior officials within the
Directorate of Inter-Services Intelligence, Pakistan's main military security
agency. There was no evidence that senior officials had knowledge of the plot,
or at least its full extent, Headley indicated.

Human rights groups criticised the execution. "The hanging of Ajmal Kasab marks
a concerning end to [India's] moratorium on capital punishment. Instead of
resorting to the use of execution to address heinous crime, India should join
the rising ranks of nations that have taken the decision to remove the death
penalty from their legal frameworks," said Meenakshi Ganguly, the south Asia
director of the campaign group Human Rights Watch.

On Tuesday a United Nations committee adopted a draft resolution calling for a
moratorium on capital punishment. India was among 36 countries - including
Pakistan, the US, Singapore, Egypt, Japan, China and Sri Lanka - who opposed the
resolutionciting the right of each sovereign nation to decide its own legal
system.

Few analysts thought the killing of Kasab would interfere with political efforts
in Delhi and Islamabad to improve relations between the two countries. On
Tuesday the Pakistani president, Asif Ali Zardari, ratified a long-planned
relaxation of visa requirements for Indians travelling in Pakistan.

Indian analysts, however, say a repeat attack like that of 2008 could bring
about a war between the two countries and criticise precautions taken to prevent
such an attack. The absence of sectarian violence after the attack has been seen
as a testament to the strength of India's secular democracy. Dr Zafarul-Islam
Khan, who runs the Delhi-based Urdu-language Milli Gazette newspaper, said
Indian Muslims had no "concern" for Kasab. "Any terrorist should be hanged. He
should have been executed long ago," Khan told the Guardian.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                          November 21, 2012 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

Quartet  planned terrorist attacks

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 53 words


california: Four men from California have been charged with plotting to kill
Americans overseas and in the United States by joining al Qaeda and the Taliban
in Afghanistan. FBI spokeswoman Laura Eimiller said the four had been arrested
for plotting to blow up government facilities and set bombs off in public
places.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    November 21, 2012 Wednesday 7:58 PM GMT

India hangs the only militant to survive 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks

BYLINE: ANTHONY BOND

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


India executed the lone surviving gunman from the 2008 terror attack on Mumbai
early today, the country's home ministry said.

Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, a Pakistani citizen, was one of 10 gunmen who rampaged
through the streets of India's financial capital for three days in November
2008, killing 166 people.

Kasab was hanged in secrecy at 7:30 a.m. today at a jail in Pune, a city near
Mumbai, after Indian President Pranab Mukherjee rejected his plea for mercy.

Scroll down for video

Union Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde said the home ministry sent Kasab's
mercy plea to Mukherjee on October 16.

Mukherjee rejected it on November 5, he said.

'It was decided then that on 21st November at 7:30 in the morning he would be
hanged. That procedure has been completed today,' Shinde said.

R.R. Patil, the home minister for the state of Maharashtra, where Mumbai is
located, called the execution a tribute to 'all innocent people and police
officers who lost their lives in this heinous attack on our nation.'

Indian authorities faced public pressure to quickly execute Kasab, and the
government fast-tracked the appeal and execution process, which often can take
years, or in some cases, decades.

Kasab and the other gunmen entered Mumbai by boat on November 26, 2008.

Carrying mobile phones, grenades and automatic weapons, the gunmen fanned out
across India's financial capital, targeting luxury hotels, a Jewish center and
the city's main train station.

The three-day attack was broadcast live on television, transfixing the nation
and world.

Captured by a photographer striding through Mumbai's main train station, an
assault rifle in hand, the baby-faced Kasab quickly became the iconic image of
the siege.

India blames Laskhar e-Taiba, a militant Pakistani organization, for
orchestrating the attacks. The incident inflamed relations between the nuclear
armed neighbors.

An Indian judge sentenced Kasab to death in May 2010 for waging war against
India, murder and terrorism, among other charges. Kasab cried that day as he
heard the sentence.

VIDEO: Families of victims say justice has been done

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    November 21, 2012 Wednesday 7:50 AM GMT

India hangs the only militant to survive 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks

BYLINE: ANTHONY BOND

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 139 words


India has hanged the only militant to have survived the 2008 Mumbai, it emerged
today.

In August, India's Supreme Court upheld Mohammad Ajmal Kasab's death sentence
over the attack on a string of targets in Mumbai that killed 166 people.

Kasab was a Pakistani national who said he belonged to the militant group
Lashkar-e-Taiba.

The attacks saw ten Pakistani extremists slaughter 166 civilians in a vicious
rampage.

The terrorists targeted guests at two five star hotels, a Jewish centre and
commuters at the city's main railway station.

The attacks involved 11 coordinated shooting and bombing attacks across Mumbai,
India's largest city, by Islamist terrorists.

They were trained in and came from Pakistan.

The attacks, which drew widespread global condemnation, began on Wednesday,
November 26 and lasted until Saturday, November 29 2008.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 21, 2012 Wednesday 10:22 AM GMT

Explosion on Tel Aviv bus amid frantic diplomatic efforts;
Reports from Israel said there was an explosion on a bus in Tel Aviv that
injured at least ten people. Police told Reuters that it was a terrorist attack.

BYLINE: By Damien McElroy Jerusalem

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 620 words


News of the explosion came as Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, is
engaged in strenuous shuttle diplomacy to wring an elusive truce deal from
Israel and Gaza's militant Hamas rulers, after earlier attempts to end more than
a week of fighting broke down amid heavy overnight bombing.

Mrs Clinton joined other diplomats in shuttling between Jerusalem, the West Bank
and Cairo, trying to piece together a deal after a week of fighting and mounting
casualties.

After meeting Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli Prime Minister, in Jerusalem on
Tuesday night, Mrs Clinton conferred with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas in
the West Bank on Wednesday morning.

She then returned to Jerusalem for further talks with Mr Netanyahu, Ehud Barak,
the defence minister and Avigdor Lieberman, the foreign minister.

She was due to travel to Cairo, carrying Israeli demands for further Egyptian
assurances that the flow of arms to Hamas, the militant faction that controls
Gaza, can be cut off.

Protesters angered by the eight-day Israel operation to bomb Gazan rocket
arsenals gathered outside the Ramallah complex housing the Palestinian Authority
as Mrs Clinton met Mahmoud Abbas, its president.

The US envoy arrived in Israel last night and met Benjamin Netanyahu, the
Israeli prime minister who launched Operation Pillar of Defence last Wednesday.
He said the US and Israel would take the opportunity to align their positions so
that diplomacy could draw the conflict to a close.

"If there is a possibility of achieving a long-term solution to this problem
with diplomatic means, we prefer that," he said. "But if not, I'm sure you
understand that Israel will have to take whatever action is necessary to defend
its people."

Sources in Gaza reported the death toll in Gaza had reached 139 by Wednesday
morning.

Instead of an expected cessation, Israel's military laid on a heavy bombardment
of artillery and aerial bombing on Gaza after warning residents to move to
designated "safe areas".

In the hours of darkness, Israeli forces targeted dozens of "terrorist
infrastructure sites". More than 30 strikes overnight also included government
ministries and a banker's empty villa.

At least four strikes within seconds of each other pulverised a complex of
government ministries covering a city block, rattling nearby buildings and
shattering surrounding windows. Hours later, clouds of acrid dust still hung
over the area and smoke still rose from the rubble.

The list of targets destroyed in bombing runs included weapon depots, smuggling
tunnels and rocket-launching bases.

A Hamas operations centre on the seventh floor of a high-rise building was hit.
Offices in the building included media organisations, who were warned their
status would afford them no protection as Israel sought high value targets.

"Warning to reporters in Gaza," the army said in a message on Twitter. "Stay
away from Hamas operatives & facilities. Hamas, a terrorist group, will use you
as human shields."

Three journalists were among the dead on Tuesday as Israel hit cars it believed
contained Hamas figures.

Two worked for news outfits affiliated with Gaza's Hamas government and a third
journalist worked for a private radio station was killed in a separate incident.

Two Israelis were also killed by rocket fire from Gaza, bringing to five the
casualties in Israel.

Egypt's Islamist government is mediating talks and had floated hopes for a
ceasefire by late Tuesday.

Hamas leaders in Cairo accused the Jewish state of failing to respond to
proposals and said an announcement on holding fire would be pushed into
Wednesday.

Officials suggested that no outcome would be sealed until Mrs Clinton met
President Mohammad Morsi in Cairo this afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    November 21, 2012 Wednesday 6:26 PM GMT

Last Mumbai attack terrorist, Ajmal Kasab, is executed

BYLINE: Robin Pagnamenta, Mumbai

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 368 words


The lone surviving gunman of the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks has been hanged
in secret, the Indian Government confirmed this morning.

The death sentence for Mohammad Ajmal Kasab, a 25-year-old Pakistani who claimed
to be a member of the Lashkar-e-Taiba militant group, was upheld in August by
the Indian Supreme Court.

He had been convicted more than a year ago of being part of a team that launched
a gun and grenade rampage through some of the city's main landmarks on November
26, 2008, that killed 166 people.

Kasab, who had been held in the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai since his arrest
during the attacks, was executed at 7:30am local time this morning (0200 GMT),
according to R.R. Patil, the home minister of Maharashtra state.

Kasab had been moved in secret to Yerwada jail in the nearby city of Pune a few
hours earlier.

The decision to proceed with the execution came after President Mukherjee had
rejected a plea for mercy on November 8.

"Kasab's hanging is a tribute to all the 166 people killed as well as those
police officers martyred in the attack," Mr Patil said.

"Yes, Kasab has been hanged this morning at 7.30am in Yerawada central jail,"
Ujjwal Nikam, a special prosecutor who led the 26/11 terror attacks case.

Jharna Narang, 38, who was shot and seriously injured in the attack on the Taj
hotel and whose parents and brother were all killed, said Kasab's death had
given her a sense of closure.

"It sends a very clear message to Pakistan that terrorism will not be
tolerated." She added: "I look at Kasab more as a victim himself. He was
brainwashed by the people who planned the attack. I never felt any sense of
personal vengeance against him."

Kasab was convicted in 2010 on charges ranging from treason to waging war
against India.

His execution, which was carried out under great secrecy, brings to an end four
years of appeals and legal action by Kasab and his team of lawyers, who brought
the decision to the Supreme Court.

The final decision to refuse his plea for mercy was taken by Mr Mukherjee.

Kasab and nine other Lashkar-e-Taiba militants had sailed into Mumbai from
Karachi. Their attack on the city targeted luxury hotels, restaurants, railway
stations and a synagogue.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    November 21, 2012 Wednesday 4:28 AM GMT

Mumbai terror attack gunman executed

BYLINE: Robin Pagnamenta, Mumbai

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 305 words


The lone surviving gunman of the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks has been secretly
hanged, India's government confirmed this morning.

The death sentence for Mohammad Ajmal Kasab, a 25-year-old Pakistani national
who claimed to be a member of the Lashkar-e-Taiba militant group, was upheld in
August by India's Supreme Court.

He had been convicted more than a year ago of being part of a team that launched
a gun and grenade rampage through some of the city's main landmarks on November
26, 2008 that killed 166 people.

Kasab, who had been held in Mumbai's Arthur Road prison since his arrest during
the attacks, was executed at 7:30am local time this morning (0200 GMT),
according to the home minister of Maharashtra state, RR Patil.

He had been moved in secret to Yerwada jail in the nearby city of Pune a few
hours earlier.

The decision to proceed with the execution came after India's President Pranab
Mukherjee had rejected his mercy plea on November 8.

"Kasab's hanging is a tribute to all the 166 people killed as well as those
police officer martyred in the attack," Mr Patil said.

"Yes, Kasab has been hanged this morning at 7.30 am in Yerawada central jail,"
said Ujjwal Nikam, a special prosecutor who led the 26/11 terror attacks case.

Kasab was originally convicted on charges ranging from treason to waging war
against India in 2010.

His execution, which was carried out under great secrecy, brings to an end four
years of appeals and legal action by Kasab and his team of lawyers, who brought
the decision to the country's Supreme Court.

The final decision to refuse a mercy plea by Kasab was taken by the country's
new President Pranab Mukherjee.

Kasab and nine other Lashkar-e-Taiba militants had sailed into Mumbai from
Karachi. Their attack on the city targeted luxury hotels, restaurants, railway
stations and a synagogue,

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                    November 21, 2012 Wednesday 3:32 AM GMT

Mumbai terror attack gunman executed

BYLINE: Robin Pagnamenta, Mumbai

SECTION: ASIA

LENGTH: 128 words


The lone surviving gunman of the 2008 Mumbai terrorist attacks has been hanged,
India's government confirmed this morning.

The death sentence for Mohammad Ajmal Kasab, a 25 year old Pakistani national
who claimed to be a member of the Lashkar-e-Taiba militant group, was upheld in
August by India's Supreme Court.

He had earlier been convicted of part of a team that launched a gun and grenade
rampage through the city on November 26, 2008 that killed 166 people.

Kasab, who had been held in Mumbai's Arthur Road prison since the attacks, was
executed at 7:30am local time this morning (0200 GMT).

He had been moved to Yerwada jail in the nearby city of Pune after India's
President Pranab

Mukherjee rejected his mercy plea earlier this month, according to Indian media
reports.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday

Afghan paper urges people to prevent terrorist attacks on Ashura

LENGTH: 341 words


Text of editorial "Do not allow Kabul to be changed into second Karbala" by
private Afghan newspaper Arman-e Melli on 19 November

The enemies of our people's tranquillity, religion and beliefs caused disaster
in Kabul city last year. They killed more than 40 of our compatriots including
women and children by carrying out a suicide attack among the Husseini mourners
beside Abu Al-Fazel shrine on this day.

This incident was so dreadful and bloody that it reminded everyone of the
Karbala. It was extensively reflected in the world and our people condemned the
incident and cursed the perpetrators of it all over the country.

Now, it is Muharram occasion again and we condole all the Muslims and mourners
of this day.

We would like to mention that our people's enemies are still waiting to carry
out a deadly and bloody attack on this day. God forbid, if such an incident is
repeated, families will once again lose their loved ones.

In order to prevent such an incident, the organizers of this ceremony should pay
attention and organize the ceremony carefully.

We should not forget that our people's enemies are planning to target the
people's ceremony and once again cause misfortune for the people and the
community.

One of the strategies, which can prevent such an incident, is preventing the
mourners from going in groups to places where presence of the terrorists is
expected.

The ceremonies should be held in places where all the people could be bodily
checked.

Street ceremonies can pave the way for our people's enemies to cause such
incidents among our people.

Our people, both Shi'i and Sunni, should try to hold the ceremonies in a
friendly and united way without creating any insecurity. We should not allow the
enemies of our people's unity to disrupt our unity and friendship with
conspiracy.

You should remember that there are some groups in the Middle East and the region
among that fuel conflicts among the Islamic religious sects; but with the grace
of God, they have not penetrated among us.

Source: Arman-e Melli, Kabul, in Dari 19 Nov 12 p 1

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday

Polish parliament facilities poorly protected against terrorist attack - website

LENGTH: 1159 words


Text of report by Polish leading privately-owned centre-left newspaper Gazeta
Wyborcza website,

[Report by Wojciech Czuchnowski: "The Sejm: An Easy Target"]

Poland's parliament is one of the most poorly protected in the world - the
Polish Interior Ministry warmed already back in 2010. A report on the topic
concluded that the building of the Sejm [lower house of parliament] could be one
of the main targets of a terrorist attack.

The report dated 08 September 2010 by the "Task-Force Panel for Reviewing
Anti-Terrorist Security Systems at Parliamentary Sites" was written by 21
specialists from the BOR [Government Protection Office], ABW [Internal Security
Agency], police, CBS [Central Investigative Bureau], Fire Guard, and Government
Security Center.

Two years ago the recommendations of the report were nearly completely ignored.
The topic resurfaced when the ABW and public prosecutors revealed on Tuesday [
20 Nov] that they had arrested Brunon K., a chemist by profession, a lecturer at
the Agricultural University in Krakow. He planned to blow up a truck carrying
four tons of explosive materials outside parliament.

"Fundamental Oversights"

The report is classified on the "restricted" level, but Gazeta Wyborcza has
gained access to its content. It indicates that the would-be terrorist's plans
stood a significant chance of success. He actually paid several reconnaissance
visits, walking around the parliament building, and he may have identified the
building's weak points.

The specialists, led by Colonel Ryszard Goran from the BOR, scrutinized the
entire area administered by the Chancelleries of the Sejm and Senate. This is a
complex of buildings that is fenced in only from the rear, from the direction of
Rydz-Smigly Park. There is no barrier in front of the Sejm. Of the eight
driveway entrances leading into parliamentary territory, only four were equipped
with a security system: barriers, spike obstacles, and nearly 40 cm tall walls
that emerge out of the earth.

"These safeguards may protect against unauthorized entrance of light vehicles,
but they do not pose much of an obstacle to an off-road vehicle or a vehicle of
greater tonnage," the authors of the reports stated. And they stressed: "The
current system of protection does not provide the necessary level of security
against potential terrorist attacks." The report points out "fundamental
oversights."

Moreover, at the time when the inspection was made the barrier walls were not
functional. "To make things more interesting, they are kept stowed away
completely on days when there are plenary sessions, because too many cars drive
in," Gazeta Wyborcza is told by a BOR officer. Brunon K. wanted to attack on
just such a day, when most of the MPs, the government, and the president would
be at the Sejm building.

The authors of the report also pointed out that the cars of the MPs and
employees who enter the premises are not subject to pyrotechnic control. "The
point is not that one of them might be consciously being in a bomb, but that for
example someone could plant one on their car," the BOR officer explains.

Pistols in Storerooms

The remarks of the specialists also concerned overly free access by "outside
individuals" to the Sejm and Senate premises. One can indeed walk right up to
the entranceways of both houses and of the parliamentary housing facility "off
the street." That is why the authors of the report recommended that "a permanent
fence should be erected around the parliament complex, together with
entranceways for cars and individuals." They also noted that the lack of
fencing, the extensive vegetation behind the parliament building, and partially
in front of it make it easier "for undesirable individuals to gain access to the
area, to conduct concealed observations, and to throw dangerous objects towards
the most important buildings." They also pointed out the lack of bulletproof
panes in the windows of the offices of the president, prime minister, and
speakers of both houses.

Specialists also detected that no one was guarding the air intakes, including
the main one leading to the plenary hall. That makes it easier to mount an
attack using poisonous substances, which a potential terrorist could release
into the air.

The report also discussed the inept monitoring of the buildings. Although 130
cameras were installed in parliament, the images coming in from them are
displayed on 19 monitors, which are observed by just one individual at the
command center of the Parliamentary Guard. The individual is therefore unable to
handle the task "effectively."

The Interior Ministry recommended increasing the number of parliamentary guards
(from 150 to 190) added that although they are equipped with 135 Glock pistols,
they walk around unarmed. Only a few of them carry tazers.

"A survey of the security measures taken at parliamentary sites abroad indicates
that the complex of the Sejm and Senate of the Polish Republic may be an
exception among sites of this type in the world," the report states. As examples
of facilities that are better protected, the report names the European
Parliament and the province of Italy, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, Canada,
in Ireland, and Portugal.

Not a Fortress

Gen. Adam Rapacki, a former deputy interior minister, spoke about the report to
PAP on Wednesday. He said that the tenets of the document "were not implemented
because politicians did not want to consent to that." "The reluctance of the
politicians stemmed from a fear of being accused of fencing themselves off from
society," Rapacki explained.

Speaker of the Sejm Ewa Kopacz is of a different opinion. "We have the
Parliamentary Guard, barriers, procedures, cameras, and close monitoring. That
provides security," she listed. "Every wall can be surmounted. Despite
everything, places like parliament should retain the character of contact with
voters, rather than that of a fenced-in fortress.

Speaker of the Senate Bogdan Borusewicz, on the other hand, is in favor of
parliament being fenced in. As he says, he has been appealing to the speaker of
the Sejm on this issue for several years. To no avail.

It is not just parliament that is poorly protected. According to Gazeta
Wyborcza's sources, the services believe that the situation is similar at the
Prime Minister's Chancellery and Foreign Ministry headquarters - any vehicle
"from the street" can drive up to the entranceways to each of these buildings.
The presidential buildings, Belweder Palace and the palace on Krakowskie
Przedmiescie street, are more secure.

As a model of the best protected facility in downtown Warsaw, the services point
to the US Embassy on Aleje Ujazdowskie street. It is protected by a mighty
fence; the barrier walls at the entrances can stop even a truck. The building
also has bulletproof windowpanes and security zones. Some of the latter can
withstand the explosion of a large bomb within the building.

Source: Gazeta Wyborcza website, Warsaw, in Polish 22 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday

Kenyan police arrest "terror" suspects, warn of further "worse" attacks

LENGTH: 453 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati entitled "Three arrested over Eastleigh blast" by
Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 22 November

Police are holding three suspects in connection with the Eastleigh mini-bus
blast that claimed 10 lives [on 18 November].

The suspects are believed to have been behind the delivery of the explosion that
went off in the bus on Sunday killing ten and injured 40 others.

Police have warned that the suspects' accomplices are planning worse attacks in
Nairobi. Detectives charged with monitoring terror matters say the terrorists
plan to attack supermarkets, churches, markets and other social places.

Nairobi Area police boss Moses Ombati on Thursday [22 November] said that
intelligence reports show the terror gangs are planning to strike on a daily
basis with an agenda of dividing Kenyans, killing and maiming.

"We have to exercise caution all the time because the gangs are here and
planning attacks even as police also try to tame them," said Ombati.

The police boss said they arrested more than 80 suspects for rioting following
the bombing of the bus on Sunday. The suspects have since been charged before
court and released on bond.

Ombati stated the explosion that went off in Eastleigh was an Improvised
Explosive Device (IED) that was assembled in a house in Majengo area and
delivered to the bus.

He said all those in custody are Kenyans who had been coached and recruited into
a terror cell that is out to destroy the country.

Ombati said three main planners and mentors of the Eastleigh attack are at large
but police are on their pursuit. He revealed the attackers were using a
motorbike on the material day before one of them boarded it and abandoned the
explosive inside.

The matatu [public minibus] was headed for Kariobangi and had picked up 25
passengers from Eastleigh when the explosion went off near St Teresa's area.

Ombati said investigations have shown the attackers trailed the matatu on the
motorbike up to the point where their accomplice alighted and later detonated it
using a remote.

"These people assemble the bombs in houses which are known to Kenyans. We urge
Kenyans to be cautious and co-operate with the security agencies in efforts to
tame the terrorism."

The Sunday explosion sparked protests in the area with some residents targeting
people from Somali community accusing them of harbouring terrorists.

Businesses were affected in the busy larger Eastleigh area for two days as
police battled with the gangs which looted and robbed even pedestrians.

Police tight security patrol is expected to resume today whether talks between
the elders and the security officers bear fruit or not.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 22 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday

25 killed as terrorists attack Pakistan

SECTION: ASIA PACIFIC

LENGTH: 797 words


The country was rocked yesterday by explosions and targeted attacks in main
cities in the four provinces, claiming lives of at least 25 civilians and
security personnel.

Two of the attacks - one in Rawalpindi and the other in Karachi - were
sectarian, targeting Muharram mourners gathered in or near Imambargahs.

At least 14 people were killed and 35 others injured in a suicide attack in
Dhoke Syedian area of Rawalpindi.

Two people were killed and at least 12 others injured in twin blasts near an
Imambargah in Orangi Town of Karachi. The blasts took place one hour apart.

In Quetta, security personnel who were escorting a van of schoolchildren were
hit by a blast. At least three soldiers and two civilians were killed.
Twenty-eight people were injured.

Three policemen were killed in Bannu, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, when gunmen ambushed
their van. The assailants also fired on a checkpost, injuring three FC
personnel.

Also in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, a police constable was killed when a bomb placed on
a road hit a police van which plunged into a ravine. Two officers and the driver
of the van were injured.

According to our reporter Mohammad Asghar, at least 14 people were killed and 35
others injured when a suicide bomber blew himself up in Dhoke Syedian area of
Rawalpindi yesterday night.

The explosion took place after the suicide bomber was intercepted by
law-enforcement personnel when he was trying to join a Muharram procession.

The procession, which originated from the house of Manzoor Haider Shah, was
heading to Qasr-i-Shabir where it was to culminate.

The death toll could rise as five of the injured are said to be in critical
condition.

According to initial reports, the suspected suicide bomber tried to join the
procession by crossing barbed wires and breaking the security cordon. The bomber
detonated his suicide jacket containing high-intensity explosives the moment he
was intercepted by security personnel.

The blast, which shattered windowpanes of nearby houses, was heard miles away.
It created panic across the city as police and emergency services were seen
moving towards the site of the blast.

According to law-enforcement personnel, four live grenades were found at the
scene of the bombing. Human limbs were scattered over a large area and the
injured were screaming for help.

Angry people pelted policemen with stones and raised slogans against the
administration and its failure to provide security.

According to one of the injured, who identified himself as Bagh Hussain Shah,
the procession was heading towards the main road when the explosion took place.

"There was chaos, the injured lying over a vast area as everybody screaming with
pain and calling for help," he said. "There was nobody to help me as my brother
Ishtiaq Hussain Shah who suffered serious injuries was also lying on the road."

At least 23 injured were taken to the district headquarters hospital, five to
the Benazir Bhutto Hospital, three to the Military Hospital and one to the Holy
Family Hospital.

S. Raza Hassan in Karachi adds: The provincial capital was rocked by twin blasts
near an Imambargah. Two people were killed and at least 12 others injured.

The two blasts took place with a space of one hour close to Masjid-o-Imambargah
Haider-i-Karar in Orangi Town No 5.

According to police and hospital sources, Arsalan, a shopkeeper, and Arshad, a
puncture shop owner, were killed. Journalists as well as police and Rangers
personnel were among the injured.

The first blast took place at about 7pm, damaging nearby shops.

"Circumstantial evidence suggests that explosives were planted in a motorcycle,"
said Raja Umar Khattab, SSP of CID's counter-terrorism wing.

"The second improvised explosive device appeared to have been concealed in a
brick-like structure along the wall of the Imambargah. A number of similar
blocks on the pavement gave a perfect cover to the IED," the SSP said, adding
that about five to six kilograms of explosives were used in the first blast and
about half a kilogram in the second, he said.

"The blast took place during traffic movement on the road. The motorcycle was
not parked there and it is difficult to say at the moment if the blast was
carried out by a suicide bomber," DIG West Javed Odho told Dawn.

He said some mutilated human remains had been found, but only a DNA test could
confirm if those were of the bomber.

Forensic investigators claimed to have collected "some crucial pieces of
evidence" which could lead to trace the planners and executors of the attacks, a
senior officer said.

The Secretary General of Majlis Wahdat-i-Muslimeen, Allama Nasir Abbas Jafri,
condemned the twin blasts and said the government had completely failed to
provide security to people.

In a statement, he called for handing over security to the army on 9th and 10th
of Muharram.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 22, 2012 Thursday 10:57 PM GMT

Tottenham fans stabbed in Rome after fight breaks out with armed Lazio
supporters;
Tottenham supporters have described the terror of being targeted in an attack by
Italian hooligans that left nine English fans injured.

BYLINE: By Nick Squires in Rome

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 479 words


A group of about 50 "Ultras", believed mostly to be affiliated to Lazio and
wearing motorcycle helmets and armed with baseball bats, knives and knuckle
dusters, launched the unprovoked assault at The Drunken Ship pub in Campo de
Fiori, one of the Rome's most popular piazzas, on the eve of the Europa League
clash with Lazio.

The assault appeared coordinated, with some of the gang blocking an exit at the
pub while the rest unleashed their violent attack. Cobblestones outside the pub
were left stained with blood and ­scattered with broken glass.

At least five victims were taken to hospital. The most seriously injured, Ashley
Mills, 25, was stabbed in the groin and underwent emergency ­surgery in San
Camillo Hospital.

He also suffered injuries to the head and lost a large amount of blood, hospital
staff said. He needed about 20 stitches. Two other Spurs supporters, Stephen
Tierney 46, and Dave Lesley, 47, were discharged after being treated for minor
injuries to the face and head.

Christopher Allen, 60, was having a drink with his brother-in-law outside the
pub, when the attack happened at about 1.30am. "The atmosphere in the bar was
nice, very civilised," he said. "There was a bit of chanting and singing. I was
outside and I looked up to see a gang pulling scarves up around their faces." He
was struck on the head and was in a bloodied shirt and trousers as he underwent
treatment in Santo Stefano Hospital.

Nicholas Burnett, 20, an American studying in Rome, was stabbed in the back.
"When the Lazio guys came into the piazza I thought they were in disguise,"
Burnett said. "There were 40 or 50 of them. Some wore helmets, all of them wore
scarves, and they all had weapons. I tried to escape but a guy hit me in the
back. At first I thought it was a baseball bat but then I felt the wound and it
felt like a knife injury. I was bleeding profusely." He was rushed to
Fatebenefratelli Hospital, where he was given stitches.

Tottenham fans were beaten with clubs and broken-off chair legs. "Friends went
back into the bar to protect some girls, who were shielding themselves with
serving trays," Burnett added. "The Lazio supporters were beating people with
ripped-off table legs. They just kept going."

Lazio's support base is notorious for including hard-Right extremists and
fascist sympathisers. "Everything looked planned, they were extremely
organised," Marco Manzi, the owner of the pub, said. "They blocked the second
exit and were even armed with tear gas."

He estimated that about 30 English supporters were in the bar. "Most of them
were aged between 40 and 50 and well behaved. The ­Italian fans managed to
isolate the English and started hitting them with bars, chairs and tables."

The attack lasted only a few minutes. Most of the attackers escaped. Police were
questioning six suspects yesterday. One man arrested was a fan of AS Roma,
Lazio's rivals.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           November 22, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Last Mumbai terror attack gunman is executed

BYLINE: WMN REPORTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 539 words


India has executed the lone surviving gunman from the 2008 Mumbai terror attack.

Mohammed Ajmal Kasab was hanged four years after Pakistani gunmen blazed through
India's financial capital, killing 166 people and throwing relations between the
nuclear-armed neighbours into chaos.

Kasab, a Pakistani, was executed in secrecy at a jail in Pune, a city near
Mumbai, after Indian president Pranab Mukherjee rejected his plea for clemency.

News of the execution was widely cheered in India, with political parties
organising public celebrations and some people setting off fireworks. But for
those more deeply touched by the events of 26/11, as the attack is known there,
the hanging offered only a partial relief.

"This is an incomplete justice as the masterminds and main handlers of 26/11 are
still absconding," said Kavita Karkare, the widow of Hemant Karkare, the chief
of Mumbai's anti-terrorism squad who was killed while pursuing Kasab. "They
should also be hanged."

Indian officials accuse Pakistan's intelligence agency of working with the
militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba to plan the attack - an allegation Islamabad
denies. India and Pakistan, which have fought three wars since they were carved
out of British India in 1947, suspended peace talks after the Mumbai attack.
Since 2011, the two countries have rekindled the peace talks, taken steps to
bolster trade and signed a visa agreement to make cross-border travel easier,
but New Delhi's frustration with Pakistan's failure to bring those responsible
for the attack to justice has complicated efforts to mend relations.

The attacks were also a major embarrassment for India's security establishment,
which failed to stop a small group of gunmen who entered Mumbai on a dinghy from
running roughshod over the police and elite security forces for three days.

Indian authorities faced public pressure to execute Kasab quickly, and the
government fast-tracked the appeal and execution process, which often can take
years or even decades.

Union Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde said the ministry sent Kasab's mercy
plea to Mr Mukherjee on October 16 and he rejected it on November 5. Indian
Foreign Minister Salman Khurshid said the government had attempted to inform
Pakistani officials of the impending execution, but a fax sent to Pakistan's
foreign office went unanswered. He said the government had also informed Kasab's
family.

Kasab was buried at Yerwada Central Jail, where he was executed. Some of India's
most famous freedom fighters including Mohandas Gandhi served time there.

News of the execution provoked little immediate comment in Pakistan.

Kasab and nine other gunmen entered Mumbai by boat on November 26, 2008.
Carrying mobile phones, grenades and automatic weapons, they fanned out across
the city, targeting two luxury hotels, a Jewish centre, a tourist restaurant and
a crowded train station. The attack was broadcast live on television,
transfixing the nation and the world.

A photo of Kasab striding through Mumbai's main train station, an assault rifle
in hand, quickly became the image of the siege.

An Indian judge sentenced Kasab to death in May 2010 for waging war against
India, murder and terrorism, among other charges. Kasab cried as he heard the
sentence.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 23, 2012 Friday

Romanian intelligence chief stresses need to prevent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 264 words


Text of report by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "Intelligence Service Chief: 'We Are Not Excepted From
Terrorist Risk; Must Assign Prevention'"]

Bucharest, Nov 23 (Agerpres) - The Romanian Intelligence Service (SRI) Director
George Maior on Thursday [22 November] said in speaking about a terrorist attack
that could also target Romania amid the Gaza Strip developments that Romania is
not excepted from such events and he underscored significant resources must be
assigned for prevention. "We must be extremely cautious and pay attention when
analysing such developments. I have recently said we are not excepted from such
events, from the viewpoint of a terrorist risk. /.../ I think such risk will
increase very much in the future due to factors relating the movement of
persons, Romania's involvement in various sensitive international actions. Let
us not forget our presence in Afghanistan, in other sensitive areas of the world
and we must assign important resources in order to prevent. This is the keyword:
to prevent. When this is no longer possible, we'll, of course, counter by the
help of the state executive institutions," Maior said at the Gaudeamus Book Fair
in Bucharest.

He stressed the SRI, alongside other institutions in Romania, is trying in
advance to detect the manner that Romania is affected by the terrorist phenomena
taking place in other states, 'with some of them being even located in our
proximity' and he added the risk of a terrorist attack is on the rise.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 0549gmt 23 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 23, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

ULTRA VIOLENT;
SPURS FANS AMBUSHED IN ROME NIGHT OF TERROR ; Facist yobs attack Spurs fans in a
bar injuring nine ; More shame at game as fans suffer racist abuse

BYLINE: BEN ROSSINGTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14,15

LENGTH: 959 words


SMASHED up tables and chairs, shattered glass and blood on the floor, this was
the scene of devastation in a Rome pub yesterday where Tottenham fans were
attacked by fascist thugs.

One supporter was stabbed and left for dead in the ambush by around 50 Ultras
wielding baseball bats, knives, street cobbles and knuckle-dusters while
screaming vile anti-Semitic abuse.

Ashley Mills needed 20 stitches to head and leg wounds inflicted by the vicious
mob who stormed a pub where Spurs supporters were enjoying a quiet drink before
the Europa League clash against Italian giants Lazio.

The 25-year-old was last night recovering in hospital. He was one of nine
visiting fans injured in the unprovoked attack.

His brother Bradley, 30, was treated after he started coughing up blood while
visiting Ashley in Rome's San Camillo hospital. Dave Lesley, 47, and 46-year-old
Stephen Tierney were also injured.

Uefa insisted it would not take any action against Lazio as the violence took
place outside the Stadio Olimpico where the match was played.

BANNER But Italian fans were also heard chanting "Juden Tottenham" inside the
arena as the match was being played. Uefa officials said they would not comment
until after they receive the referee's report.

The ruling body fined Lazio just (EURO)40,000 after their supporters chanted
racist abuse at Tottenham's black players in September's 0-0 draw at White Hart
Lane.

Rome council president Giovanni Barbera confirmed yesterday's violence was
accompanied by anti-Semitic chants. He said: "There are witnesses ready to
confirm that they saw Ultras attack the English shouting: 'Jews'." A banner with
the words Free Palestine on it was unfurled during the match.

Spurs fan Christopher Allen was one of those attacked by the far-right yobs in
the Drunken Ship pub.

The mob covered their faces with scarves and motorbike helmets. Others
surrounded the building in the Campo de Fiori piazza so the victims could not
escape. Christopher, 60, said: "The bar was nice and civilised and there was
some chanting, then I looked up and saw a big gang of lads outside pulling
scarves up over their faces, and that is when it all began. They tore through
the bar, beating people with sticks and iron bars and destroying furniture."
Fellow victim Nicholas Burnett was also stabbed.

The 20-year-old American, who is studying in Rome, said: "I was drinking at
1.30am when the raid started. There were 40 to 50 of them, some wearing the
helmets, all with scarves and all with weapons. Girls were protecting themselves
from thrown chairs with trays. A friend was badly bruised from being beaten by
clubs and ripped off table legs. These people just kept on going. I was stabbed
from behind as the mob surged into the bar and had stitches. I tried to escape
but a guy hit me in the back.

"I thought it was a baseball bat but from the wound it was more like a knife. I
took refuge across the piazza and realised I was bleeding profusely." Drunken
Ship owner Marco Manzi insisted the Tottenham fans had been well-behaved and did
nothing to provoke the mindless attack.

He added: "The Ultras penned them in the back and they threw everything at them,
cobblestones, metal rods, metal bolts, pieces of belts.

"The bar was full of about 30 English fans, most of them aged between 40 and 50.
Then arrived Italian supporters wearing scooter helmets, their faces covered
with scarves, carrying stones and rocks. They attacked the English. One of them
was hit by a knife. It was all over in 10 minutes."

Co-owner Gabriele Cianella added: "All the tables, all the chairs, the windows,
they are all broken. If you throw stones and knuckle-dusters, you want to hurt
someone. There was a lot of blood inside on the floor. Now we also have blood on
the windows."

Police arrested 15 people over the violence, including a fan of Lazio's bitter
rival AS Roma who has a conviction for anti-Semitism.

Officers believe hard-core hooligans from both clubs got together to attack the
Spurs supporters. Rome mayor Gianni Alemanno vowed to hunt down the thugs and
bring them to justice. He said: "There are delinquents hiding behind football
fans in our stadiums. This is not acceptable, it is serious."

Tottenham MP David Lammy tweeted: "Every time Premier League clubs in Rome
there's a stabbing, every time promises are made to crackdown on thugs but
nothing changes." Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas said of the anti-Semitic
abuse: "It will take another investigation. We will have to wait and see if
there is anything to act upon. If there is UEFA have to act."

But Lazio president Claudio Lotito insisted there was no evidence their fans
were involved in the attacks. He said: "They had their faces covered. Our fans
had nothing to do with it."

Before kick-off, scooter-riding Lazio fans with their faces covered by scarves
weaved menacingly in between the crowds making their way to the stadium. Heavily
armoured riot police kept watch on the throngs as they arrived at the
turnstiles. Tottenham fans were bussed directly into the imposing stadium with a
police escort. The Drunken Ship remained closed last night as military police
patrolled the normally busy Campo de Fiori piazza.

Spurs followers call themselves the "Yid Army", which they chant during matches.
But comedian David Baddiel recently dismissed claims that ethnic origin entitles
Tottenham fans to call themselves the Yid Army.

He said: "There are only 250,000 Jews in Britain and I'd say just three or four
per cent of Tottenham's crowd is Jewish."

The violence and sick chanting aimed at Spurs by Lazio fans is all the more
surprising as ex-White Hart Lane favourite Paul Gascoigne played for the Serie A
club in the early 90s and was well liked there. He was given a hero's welcome at
the match last night.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WOUNDS 3 Ashley Mills was stabbed
HATE 3 Lazio fan with swastika
HORROR 3 Blood on floor
DEADLY 3 Flick knife
FAVOURITE J Gazza at match last night
BANNER Z Jibe at last night's game
WRECK J Smashed up bar yesterday
SHATTERED J Officers among devastation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            November 23, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ULTRA VIOLENT;
SPURS FANS AMBUSHED IN ROME NIGHT OF TERROR ; Facist yobs attack Spurs fans in a
bar injuring nine ; More shame at game as Brit fans suffer racist abuse

BYLINE: BEN ROSSINGTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1187 words


SMASHED up tables and chairs, shattered glass and blood on the floor, this was
the scene of devastation in a Rome pub yesterday where Tottenham fans were
attacked by fascist thugs.

One supporter was stabbed and left for dead in the ambush by around 50 Ultras
wielding baseball bats, knives, street cobbles and knuckle-dusters while
screaming vile anti-Semitic abuse.

Ashley Mills needed 20 stitches to head and leg wounds inflicted by the vicious
mob who stormed a pub where Spurs supporters were enjoying a quiet drink before
the Europa League clash against Italian giants Lazio.

The 25-year-old was last night recovering in hospital. He was one of nine
visiting fans injured in the unprovoked attack.

His brother Bradley, 30, was treated after he started coughing up blood while
visiting Ashley in Rome's San Camillo hospital. Dave Lesley, 47, and 46-year-old
Stephen Tierney were also injured.

Uefa insisted it would not take any action against Lazio as the violence took
place outside the Stadio Olimpico where the match was played.

BANNER But Italian fans were also heard chanting "Juden Tottenham" inside the
arena as the match was being played. Uefa officials said they would not comment
until after they receive the referee's report. The ruling body fined Lazio just
£32,500 after their supporters chanted racist abuse at Tottenham's black players
in September's 0-0 draw at White Hart Lane.

Rome council president Giovanni Barbera confirmed yesterday's violence was
accompanied by anti-Semitic chants. He said: "There are witnesses ready to
confirm that they saw Ultras attack the English shouting: 'Jews'." A banner with
the words Free Palestine on it was unfurled during the match.

Spurs fan Christopher Allen was one of those attacked by the far-right yobs in
the Drunken Ship pub.

The mob covered their faces with scarves and motorbike helmets. Others
surrounded the building in the Campo de Fiori piazza so the victims could not
escape. Christopher, 60, said: "The bar was nice and civilised and there was
some chanting, then I looked up and saw a big gang of lads outside pulling
scarves up over their faces, and that is when it all began. They tore through
the bar, beating people with sticks and iron bars and destroying furniture."
Fellow victim Nicholas Burnett was also stabbed.

The 20-year-old American, who is studying In Rome, said: "I was drinking at
1.30am when the raid started. There were 40 to 50 of them, some wearing the
helmets, all with scarves and all with weapons. Girls were protecting themselves
from thrown chairs with trays. A friend was badly bruised from being beaten by
clubs and ripped off table legs. These people just kept on going. I was stabbed
from behind as the mob surged into the bar and had stitches. I tried to escape
but a guy hit me in the back.

"I thought it was a baseball bat but from the wound it was more like a knife. I
took refuge across the piazza and realised I was bleeding profusely."

Drunken Ship owner Marco Manzi insisted the Tottenham fans had been well-behaved
and did nothing to provoke the mindless attack.

He added: "The Ultras penned them in the back and they threw everything at them,
cobblestones, metal rods, metal bolts, pieces of belts.

"The bar was full of about 30 English fans, most of them aged between 40 and 50.
Then arrived Italian supporters wearing scooter helmets, their faces covered
with scarves, carrying stones and rocks. They attacked the English. One of them
was hit by a knife. It was all over in 10 minutes."

Co-owner Gabriele Cianella added: "All the tables, all the chairs, the windows,
they are all broken. If you throw stones and knuckle-dusters, you want to hurt
someone. There was a lot of blood inside on the floor. Now we also have blood on
the windows."

Police arrested 15 people over the violence, including a fan of Lazio's bitter
rival AS Roma who has a conviction for anti-Semitism.

Officers believe hard-core hooligans from both clubs got together to attack the
Spurs supporters. Rome mayor Gianni Alemanno vowed to hunt down the thugs and
bring them to justice. He said: "There are delinquents hiding behind football
fans in our stadiums. This is not acceptable, it is serious."

Tottenham MP David Lammy tweeted: "Every time Premier League clubs in Rome
there's a stabbing, every time promises are made to crackdown on thugs but
nothing changes."

Tottenham manager Andre Villas-Boas said of the anti-Semitic abuse: "It will
take another investigation.

We will have to wait and see if there is anything to act upon. If there is UEFA
have to act." But Lazio president Claudio Lotito insisted there was no evidence
their fans were involved in the attacks. He said: "They had their faces covered.
Our fans had nothing to do with it."

Before kick-off, scooterriding Lazio fans with their faces covered by scarves
weaved menacingly in between the crowds making their way to the stadium. Heavily
armoured riot police kept watch on the throngs as they arrived at the
turnstiles. Tottenham fans were bussed directly into the imposing stadium with a
police escort. The Drunken Ship remained closed last night as military police
patrolled the normally busy Campo de Fiori piazza.

Spurs followers call themselves the "Yid Army", which they chant during matches.
But comedian David Baddiel recently dismissed claims that ethnic origin entitles
Tottenham fans to call themselves the Yid Army.

He said: "There are only 250,000 Jews in Britain and I'd say just three or four
per cent of Tottenham's crowd is Jewish."

The violence and sick chanting aimed at Spurs by Lazio fans is all the more
surprising as ex-White Hart Lane favourite Paul Gascoigne played for the Serie A
club in the early 90s and was well liked there. He was given a hero's welcome at
the match last night.

ITALIAN THUGS TARGET BRITS ? FEBRUARY 2001 Six Liverpool fans stabbed and
slashed in ambush by Roma fans as they arrived at the Olympic Stadium for UEFA
Cup game. Ultras also attacked Italian riot police as they fired tear gas at
them. Thugs threw bystanders into Rome's famous Trevi Fountain.

MARCH 2006 A mob of 80 Ultras ambushed terrified Middlesbrough fans, including
mums and dads with kids, at same bar in Campo de Fiori square where yesterday's
violence erupted. Three 'Boro fans were knifed and many more battered in
well-planned, unprovoked attack before the game with Roma.

APRIL 2007 Eleven Manchester United fans taken to hospital after attacks by Roma
Ultras before a Champions League clash in the Italian capital. Fans stabbed in
the buttocks as they entered the ground and United supporters beaten by
batonwielding riot police inside the stadium. ? OCTOBER 2010 Notorious Napoli
Ultras attacked Liverpool fans with knives, batons, iron bars and bottles before
a game in Naples. Several Reds supporters seriously hurt.

NOVEMBER 2011 Manchester City striker Mario Balotelli subjected to racist abuse
at the hands of Italian Ultras during an international friendly between Italy
and Romania in Austria.

APRIL 2O12 Serie A match halted during terrifying scenes as Genoa fans rioted in
attempt to get their game against Siena abandoned after their team went 4-0
down.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FAVOURITE Z Gazza at match last night
3 HATE 3 Lazio fan with swastika
POSE 3 Yob's Nazi salute at Italy game
BANNER Z Jibe at last night's game
WOUNDS 3 Ashley Mills was stabbed
DEADLY 3 Flick knife
HORROR 3 Blood on floor
WRECK Z Smashed up bar yesterday
SHATTERED 3 Officers among devastation

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           November 24, 2012 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

STABBED BRIT FAN: ITALIAN SAVED MY LIFE;
LUCKY-TO-BE-ALIVE ASHLEY TELLS OF ; TERROR WHEN NAZI THUGS ATTACKED ; .The
50-strong mob came from nowhere.

BYLINE: STEVE HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 698 words


SPURS fan Ashley Mills was saved by a hero Italian after he was knifed by Nazi
hooligans in Rome, it was revealed last night.

The 25-year-old builder was stabbed in the head and groin as a mob of around 50
thugs attacked a bar full of Brits before Tottenham's game with Lazio.

Speaking from his bed at the city's San Camillo Hospital, Ashley said: "They
came out of nowhere. I didn't see the guy who stabbed me. There were too many of
them."

His life was saved by Alberto di Giovanni, 19, an Italian law student, who had
recently completed a firstaid course.

Ashley's pal Andrew Goszka told Channel 5 News: "There was a guy drinking in a
nearby bar, a local guy who said he trained as a paramedic, so he went to the
fighting and stemmed the blood loss and kept Ashley talking while the ambulance
arrived.

"It probably did save his life." Andrew's father Steve added: "We met him
yesterday and thanked him for what he'd done.

"Because really he was crucial. If he hadn't been there at the time things could
have been very different.

"He did a fantastic job and we're very grateful to him." Ashley, who grew up in
the Tottenham area of London, travelled to the Italian capital with his interior
designer brother Bradley, 30, to watch his team's Europa League clash with
Lazio.

They were drinking with other Spurs fans in The Drunken Ship bar when the mob
attacked.

Ashley said: "Before, there was a good atmosphere in the bar. We were having
fun, and then the atmosphere changed really quickly.

"I was standing outside drinking and the next thing I knew there were loads of
them. It happened very quickly, I don't remember much.

"I remember being pulled out, along the ground, after I had been stabbed. I was
scared at the time."

Ashley suffered head wounds and a knife wound to the top of his right thigh
which severed an artery, causing profuse bleeding.

The fan, who lives in Brentwood, Essex, said the next thing he remembered was
waking up in hospital, where he underwent emergency surgery on Wednesday night.

He said: "The groin pain can be intense.

I may have been stabbed there more than once. The doctors have looked after me
really well." Initial reports suggested Lazio fans were to blame for the attack,
which was launched with shouts of abuse about Tottenham's historical Jewish
roots.

But detectives in Rome last night charged two fans from the city's other Serie A
club, Roma, with attempted murder.

This suggests the gang was a mix of fans who are far-Right extremists.

Francesco Ianari, 26, and Mauro Pinnelli, 25, are due to appear in court today.

Fans returning from the game at the Stadio Olimpico, which finished 0-0,
described a "horrible" atmosphere at the ground and in the city.

Speaking at Gatwick after flying in from Rome last night, Tim Kyte, 54, a fire
officer from Bexleyheath, southeast London, said: "We felt in fear all the
time."

Police officer Ian Kyte, 48, said: "It just felt violent, like there could be
trouble any minute."

Bank worker Craig Seabourne, 22, from Croydon, added: "I had no bother during
the day but the atmosphere during the game was horrible. Police were attacking
us."

Despite the horror of being stabbed, Ashley says he is determined to see his
beloved Spurs play overseas again. He added: "I am a lifetime fan and I have
never seen trouble before.

"I would not have come if I'd known this was going to happen.

"But it's a one-off, and now I want to get out of here as soon as possible and
put this behind me."

The president of the Italian Football Association (FIGC) has sent a letter of
apology to FA chairman David Bernstein.

Giancarlo Abete said: "Once again, football has given a handful of delinquents
the excuse to take out their racist and anti-Semite anger. There is evidence of
this undoubted motive, which is detrimental to the image of Italian football and
doesn't match with the traditional hospitality and welcome of the city of Rome.

"The city authorities and I publicly express our firm condemnation, with my
personal indignation, at these events.

"I beg you to send our apologies to all Tottenham's fans and in particular to
those families directly involved.

"I will personally follow the investigation's development."

steve.hughes@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WRECK: The smashed bar where Ashley, top right, was brutally knifed
PROBE: Police officers sift through the debris for evidence
Pictures: SPLASH NEWS;
WITNESS: Pal Andrew Goszka
Picture: ENTERPRISE NEWS
¦ LETHAL: Knife dropped at the attack scene

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 25, 2012 Sunday

Yemeni government condemns 24 November terrorist attack in Sana'a

LENGTH: 151 words


Text of report by AF published in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba
website

["Govt condemns terrorist attack in Sana'a"]

Sanaa, 25 November - The government expressed Sunday [25 November] its strong
condemnation of the terrorist attack targeted a gathering of citizens in the
capital Sana'a on Saturday.Three people were killed and 13 others were injured
in the attack occurred while people were leaving the hall "Zaharat al-Mada'in"
in Al-Jiraf areas. A source in the government accented that the security
authorities would not hesitate to detect the perpetrators of the atrocious
attack. "Undoubtedly, the attack aims to deter the peaceful transitional process
in the country and the efforts to hold the national dialogue and to return the
country to the conflict and tension situation occurred previously", the source
said.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 1620 gmt 25 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 26, 2012 Monday

Kenyan official sacks 33 local leaders for failing to help stop terror attacks

LENGTH: 1002 words


Text of report by Boniface Ongeri entitled "33 chiefs sacked in Garissa over
claims of laxity amid insecurity" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily
newspaper The Standard website on 26 November, subheadings as published

A senior state official has sacked 33 chiefs and their assistants in Garissa
[northeastern Kenya] town and its environs for allegedly failing to help stop
terror attacks in the area.

In the move likely to draw criticism from residents and legislators, North
Eastern Provincial Commissioner [PC] Ernest Munyi also suspended issuance of
national identity cards (IDs) in the area.

Munyi said he sacked the chiefs for alleged laxity in the fight against
Al-Shabab militants [Somali Islamists], claiming they had taken for granted
recent attacks on state security officers in the town.

"The chiefs are not helping us with crucial information we need to help end the
Al-Shabab menace in the town. They have taken the killings of our security
officers and civilians as normal that is why I have decided to sack all of
them," Munyi told journalists in his office.

But several chiefs and their assistants who spoke to The Standard on condition
of anonymity said the PC had not communicated the sacking to them.

"We have been holding a series of meetings with the residents to appeal for
assistance. We have risked our lives to condemn the Al-Shabab attacks and if it
is true that we have been sacked then that is sad," one of the chiefs lamented.

"Someone should take responsibility for the deteriorating insecurity in the
town. We are being used as sacrificial lambs and scapegoats for someone's
failure," another said.

On suspension of ID cards issuance, Munyi explained non-Kenyans were illegally
acquiring the crucial document.

"We have observed that the identity cards vetting committees are continuing
issuing ID cards to people who are not Kenyans. Until we control the situation,
issuance of the cards has been stopped with immediate effect," said Munyi.

He said some of the people getting the identity cards were aliens who are using
the documents to engage in illegal trade.

Munyi said there are many foreign visitors in the town and it is the
responsibility of the chiefs and their assistants to monitor their activities.

Security meetings

He said he held security meetings with the chiefs pleading for their assistance,
but it was not forthcoming.

The sackings came after the killing of three soldiers by suspected Al-Shabab
militants that sparked rampage by the military.

Yesterday our sister paper, The Standard on Sunday carried a special report
titled "State of Lawlessness", that deplored the rising insecurity and
highlighted the lip service the government pays intelligence reports warning of
possible attacks.

Munyi said the murders of security officers, subsequent killing of two and
injuring of over 50 civilians was unfortunate and said investigations over
violence are ongoing.

Munyi blamed the spate of deadly attacks in the town to aliens.

"We cannot lose so many innocent lives of citizens and security officers while
the chiefs are silent. It is because of that that I have decided to sack the
chiefs in township locality," he said.

Garissa County Commissioner Mohammed Maalim said one person was arrested in
connection with the killing of the soldiers and is assisting police in
investigations.

Garissa has borne the brunt of most terror attacks since the Kenya Defence
Forces launched an onslaught against Al-Shabab militants in Somalia.

Suspected militants and their sympathisers are believed to be responsible for
several attacks on churches and security officers in the town leading to the
death of over 25 people.

The PC also said the government will launch a crackdown on vehicles flouting
traffic rules in Garissa town.

"There are (unmarked) taxis operating without yellow lines and vehicles with
tinted windows and we will crack down on them because we have established that
some have been used by terrorists to commit crimes in Garissa," he said.

He assured all efforts were being made to restore security in the town and
residents should go about their business without fear.

Meanwhile, two parliamentary committees met the provincial and district
committees separately on Saturday over security. The national security committee
led by chairman Fred Kapondi barred journalists from covering their meeting.

Revenge attacks

However, at a press briefing later, another committee called for the immediate
transfer of Somalia National Army (SNA) soldiers admitted at the Garissa
Provincial Hospital, for security reasons.

The foreign affairs and defence committee chairman Aden Keynan said the 28
officers admitted at the hospital are targets of revenge attacks by Al-Shabab
sympathisers and pose a serious security risk to staff, patients and visitors to
the facility.

"The Kenya government has an understanding with the African Mission in Somalia
(Amisom) to treat the (SNA) soldiers who are injured fighting Al-Shabab.
Nevertheless, the Somalia soldiers should be transferred to Forces Memorial
Hospital (in Nairobi) and not be mixed with civilians," he said.

Separately, officials from the Ministry of Special Programmes assessing the
damage sparked by the killing of three soldiers said the destruction of
properties was overwhelming.

Led by Assistant Minister Mohammed Gabow, the assessors said most of the
affected traders would need financial assistance to start afresh.

Gabow said it would be especially difficult for small-scale traders to recover
without help. "We are talking of more than 800 traders with more than 40,000
direct dependants. Something needs to be done to compensate the victims," Gabow
pleaded.

On Saturday, Special Programmes Minister Esther Murugi scoffed at Prime Minister
Raila Odinga's request that her ministry compensate victims of last week's
riots, saying she cannot obey a roadside directive.

But Gabow said he would table his findings for special consideration and
compensation for genuine traders.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 26 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 26, 2012 Monday 2:02 PM GMT

Mumbai's Leopold Cafe waiters 'forced out of job';
Indian waiters who risked their lives to save customers at Mumbai's Leopold Cafe
during the 2008 terrorist attacks have been sacked following a row over their
pay and benefits.

BYLINE: By Dean Nelson New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 357 words


Ten waiters at the bar, where 10 of the 166 killed throughout the city lost
their lives, claim the bar is cashing in on their heroism that night but forcing
them out of their jobs to avoid paying long service benefits.

They marked the fourth anniversary of the attacks on Monday by staging a protest
outside the bar, which was established in 1871 and remains popular with
backpackers. Since the 2008 attacks its popularity has soared further among
those who want to sit at the tables where terrorist gunmen opened fire with
AK47s.

Eyewitnesses later said two gunmen had been sitting among them in the bar and
stood up to begin firing after a waiter saw one of them and dropped a plate in
shock. Several of those shot and wounded were British backpackers planning long
trips throughout India.

They spoke of how waiters at the bar had helped usher them out to flee the
carnage inside, but their bravery and the stress they suffered that night has
never been acknowledged or compensated by their employer.

Vishwas Utagi, of the All India Bank Employees Association, which is
representing the waiters, claims the owner is forcing them out without cause
when they have served long enough to earn higher benefit entitlements. They had
been asked to sign blank papers which the owner has used to create 'resignation
letters,' he said.

"They did a novel job during the attacks and saved the lives of more than 40
people without caring about themselves but the owners do not care about their
sacrifices and dedication. The owners ask them to sign black papers and later
produce them as resignations letters. Since, the workers were not organised, we
helped them to form a union and take on the cafe owners.

"The owners are reaping the 'benefits' of the attack, their turnover has
increased manifold," he said. His union is demanding their reinstatement,
compensation and a promise not to force them to buy their uniforms from their
own wages. Staff had allegedly been denied overtime payments and forced to buy
the trays they use to serve customers. Some complained they had been charged for
dropping a clean paper napkin.

The owner declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 26, 2012 Monday 12:36 PM GMT

New Anders Behring Breivik Oslo bomb CCTV footage released;
New CCTV footage of Anders Behring Breivik's terror attack in Oslo 2011 is due
to be aired by Norwegian broadcaster NRK.

LENGTH: 98 words


The previously unpublished video footage, showing the moment the bomb exploded
outside the centre-left government's headquarters on July 22 last year, is due
to be aired in a special edition of NRK show Focal Point on Tuesday.

Accusing his victims of fostering multiculturalism, Anders Behring Breivik
detonated the bomb and gunned down participants at a youth camp on the island of
Utoeya, killing a total of 77 people.

Breivik was given Norway's maximum sentence of 21 years in jail, which can be
extended indefinitely. He is expected to spend most of that time at the Ila
prison near Oslo.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 26, 2012 Monday 12:31 PM GMT

New Anders Behring Breivik Oslo bomb CCTV footage released;
New CCTV footage of Anders Behring Breivik's terror attack in Oslo 2011 is due
to be aired by Norwegian broadcaster NRK.

LENGTH: 19 words


The previously unpublished video footage is due to be aired in a special edition
of NRK show Focal Point on Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 26, 2012 Monday 12:18 PM GMT

New Anders Behring Breivik Oslo bomb CCTV footage released;
Newly released CCTV footage of Anders Behring Breivik's terror attack in Oslo
2011 has been aired by Norwegian broadcaster NRK.

LENGTH: 21 words


Newly released CCTV footage of Anders Behring Breivik's terror attack in Oslo
2011 has been aired by Norwegian broadcaster NRK.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                          November 28, 2012 Wednesday

Mumbai terror attack on stage

BYLINE: Christopher Rae

SECTION: NEWS; ENTS; Theatre; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 256 words


A Macduff man's experience at the centre of a major terror attack is to be the
subject of a new play being performed in Aberdeen next year.

The drama Be Silent or Be Killed is based on the book of the same name by
businessman Roger Hunt and journalist Kenny Kemp and will be staged by Moray
theatre company Right Lines Productions, in association with Eden Court in
Inverness.

Four years ago, Mr Hunt left his Macduff home heading for India to set up a new
project for the Royal Bank of Scotland in Mumbai.

However, his routine business trip turned into a nightmare when he was caught up
in the deadly terrorist attack which claimed the lives of many innocent people.

For 40 hours, he lay hidden and alone in his hotel bedroom as terrorists moved
from floor to floor seeking western targets.

Mr Hunt was able to communicate via his BlackBerry with colleagues in RBS
headquarters in Edinburgh and it was this support, with his own decision-making,
personal resilience and determination to survive that led to his eventual rescue
by Indian special forces.

Euan Martin, of Right Lines Productions, said: "We are delighted to announce a
Scotland-wide tour of Be Silent or Be Killed, starting in Inverness and touring
the country before transferring to Aberdeen.

"Well-respected Scottish actor Fraser Sivewright has been cast as Roger in the
play. We were very pleased he was available to take part in the project - even
more so when we discovered he is also a native of Macduff."

The show will be staged at the Lemon Tree in Aberdeen in May next year.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2012 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    November 28, 2012 Wednesday 8:27 AM GMT

Susan Rice APOLOGIZES for not calling Benghazi attack terrorism but says she
never meant to mislead country... as GOP senators say they now have more
concerns than ever

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1194 words



     ·    Sens McCain, Graham and Ayotte says their concerns linger after
          meeting with Susan Rice in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday
     ·    They say they would vote against Rice if she was nominated to replace
          Hillary Clinton as secretary of state
     ·    U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans were killed in
          Benghazi strike - which occurred on 9/11 attacks anniversary
     ·    White House spokesman Jay Carney says all the questions regarding
          Rice's talking points have been answered


U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice has apologized for not calling the attacks on the
U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, terrorist.

The comments came after she failed to win over her harshest GOP critics in the
Senate during a meeting with them on Tuesday.

She claimed she never meant to mislead the American people, and instead used
talking points given to her by the intelligence community at the time.

Rice has been named as the likely successor to Hillary Clinton as Secretary of
State, however, several Republican senators are threatening to block her
confirmation if President Obama nominates her for any post.

Scroll down for video

In a statement issued shortly after the one-hour meeting at the U.S. Capitol of
Senators John McCain, Lindsey Graham and Kelly Ayotte, Rice said she had relied
on information from the CIA before she appeared on five Sunday morning talk
shows on September 16.

'We explained that the talking points provided by the intelligence community,
and the initial assessment upon which they were based, were incorrect in a key
respect: there was no protest or demonstration in Benghazi,' Ms. Rice said.

She added: 'We stressed that neither I, nor anyone else in the administration,
intended to mislead the American people at any stage in this process, and the
administration updated Congress and the American people as our assessments
evolved.'

The Republicans said that they remain unconvinced by her responses and said her
visit left them with greater concerns than before the meeting.

They have openly criticized her for initial comments after the September 11
attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi that suggested it was a spontaneous event
arising from protests of an anti-Islam film rather than a premeditated attack.

U.S. ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens and three other Americans were killed in
the attack on the Benghazi mission and a nearby CIA annex.

Intelligence officials later said the attack was possibly tied to al-Qaeda
affiliates.

McCain said: 'We are significantly troubled by many of the answers that we got,
and some that we didn't get, concerning evidence that was overwhelming leading
up to the attack on our consulate... It is clear that the information that she
gave the American people was incorrect when she said that it was a spontaneous
demonstration triggered by a hateful video.'

He added: 'It was not, and there was compelling evidence at the time that that
was certainly not the case, including statements by Libyans as well as other
Americans who are fully aware that people don't bring mortars and
rocket-propelled grenades to spontaneous demonstrations.'

Graham said: 'I'm more disturbed now than I was before. I think it does not do
justice to the reality at the time and in hindsight clearly was completely
wrong.... In real time, it was a statement disconnected from reality.'

Ayotte said she had 'many more questions that need to be answered' and suggested
she'd vote against Rice's nomination as secretary of state.

Graham added: 'I wouldn't vote for anybody being nominated out of the Benghazi
debacle until I had answers about what happened that I don't have today,' Graham
said.

Asked whether he would block such a nomination, Graham said: 'Oh, absolutely. I
would place a hold on anybody that wanted to be promoted for any job that had a
role in the Benghazi situation.'

Republicans have argued that the Obama administration tried to play down the
terrorist angle in its initial comments to avoid undermining the president's
claims of success in fighting al-Qaeda in the run-up to the November 6 election.

Rice was accompanied by acting CIA Director Michael Morell and was not seen by
reporters.

Obama has defended Rice and said if senators have a problem with the
administration's handling of Benghazi they should 'go after me' rather than try
to 'besmirch her reputation.'

Graham also criticized U.S. intelligence agencies that wrote the talking points
on which Rice based her public comments.

'I'm very disappointed in our intelligence community. I think they failed in
many ways. But with a little bit of inquiry and curiosity, I think it would be
pretty clear that to explain this episode as related to a video that created a
mob that turned into a riot was far afield,' he said. 'And at the end of the
day, we're going to get to the bottom of this.'

Rice's controversial Benghazi statements were based on a set of unclassified
talking points prepared by U.S. intelligence agencies for members of Congress.

The initial draft written by the CIA referred to 'attacks' carried out by
'extremists with ties to al Qaeda.' However by the time Rice received them,
'attacks' had changed to 'demonstrations' and 'with ties to al-Qaeda' had been
deleted, multiple U.S. sources have said.

Those in intelligence circles suggest the talking points were deliberately vague
in order to protect covert operations in Libya in the aftermath of the attack,
adding that an investigation was still underway when Rice made the rounds of
talk shows on Sept. 16.

Republicans, meantime, suspect Rice was covering up for President Obama,
charging the administration didn't want an al-Qaida terrorist attack to taint
his re-election chances.

The White House has denied making those edits and members of Congress are trying
to determine where the changes were made.

White House spokesman Jay Carney said the questions about Rice's appearance on
the talk shows and the talking points had been answered.

Carney said: 'The focus on - some might say obsession (with) - comments made on
Sunday shows seems to me, and to many, to be misplaced. What is the point of the
focus on this?'

Rice, a Rhodes scholar who's married to Canadian television producer Ian
Cameron, has risen through Democratic ranks over the years to counsel
presidential candidates that include Michael Dukakis and John Kerry, himself a
possible Hillary Clinton replacement.

She has an impressive pedigree - her father was the first black governor of the
Federal Reserve Board, her mother a renowned education scholar - but Rice's
legendary abrasiveness has prompted misgivings about her suitability for the job
from both the left and right.

'She is ill-equipped to be the nation's top diplomat for reasons that have
little to do with Libya,' Dana Milbank, a left-leaning Washington Post
columnist, wrote recently in a piece that recounted how she once gave respected
diplomat Richard Holbrooke the middle finger when she worked in the Bill Clinton
White House.

He called her an 'undiplomatic diplomat.'

The New York Times' Maureen Dowd, also a liberal columnist, took aim as well,
arguing Rice's foreign policy stances are primarily motivated by professional
ambitions.

Watch video here

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           November 29, 2012 Thursday

Minister says 15 dossiers given to Pakistan on Mumbai terror attacks - PTI

LENGTH: 171 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 29 Nov: India has given a total of 15 dossiers to Pakistan as
evidence in connection with the Mumbai terror attack, the Rajya Sabha was
informed today.

Minister of State for External Affairs E Ahamed also said that during the Home
Secretary level talks between India and Pakistan in Islamabad on May 24-25, the
Indian side handed over a list of fugitives from justice suspected to be hiding
in Pakistan.

"Pakistan assured that they will respond to the dossier. Pakistani authorities
also reiterated their commitment to bring all the perpetrators of the Mumbai
terror attack to justice in accordance with due process of law," he said.

Ahamed said a Judicial Commission from Pakistan also visited India on March
14-21 and recorded the statements/evidences of four Indian witnesses in
connection with the trial of seven accused/ perpetrators of the said terror
attack, who were arrested and are under trial in Pakistan.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1142gmt 29 Nov 12

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 29, 2012 Thursday 3:46 PM GMT

India to issue 3,000 visas to Pakistani cricket fans;
India will issue up to 3,000 visas to Pakistani cricket fans to follow their
national team on its first test tour of India since sporting ties were severed
following the 2008 terror attacks on Mumbai.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 344 words


It is believed to be the highest number of visas issued to visiting cricket fans
and highlights the importance New Delhi and Islamabad place on restoring 'people
to people' contacts as they rebuild their relationship.

Cricket is the national sport of both countries, commonly described as a shared
'religion' but Pakistan has been partially excommunicated since the Mumbai
attacks and other national teams have refused to play in the country since the
terrorist strike on the Sri Lankan team coach as it approached Lahore's stadium
in 2009.

Indian                      officials believe Pakistan's first tour to India
since 2008 will pave the way for its rehabilitation as a cricketing nation but
also lifting of the ban on Pakistani cricket stars participating in India's
lucrative IPL Twenty-20 league.

"We will try to facilitate the maximum number of spectators as the series
belongs to both the nations. We shall ask the Pakistan Cricket Board to submit a
list of individuals for visa authorization and we will try to organise to
optimum means in this regard," Rajiv Shukla, vice-president of the Board
forControl of Cricket in India (BCCI), and minister for parliamentary affairs
told The Telegraph.

Government officials had early told the news agency AFP 1000 Pakistani fans will
be given visas for the test match in New Delhi, and 500 each for the contests in
Bangalore, Ahmedabad, Chennai and Calcutta. The matches begin on Christmas Day
and continue until January 6th.

Officials say India's last tour of Pakistan in 2005-2006 and Pakistan's return
visit to India in 2007 were marked by the generosity of both sets of fans to one
another and created a warm context for government talks. That atmosphere froze
after the Mumbai attacks, but officials hope cricket can play its part once
again.

"It's good for the nations, good for promoting a peace among the nations here
after Mumbai strained relations. This will be a start where even Pakistan
players could play in the Indian Premier League after this," said one official.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                            November 30, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Conroy. IN GUN ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: SOPHIE DOUGHTY ; DAN WARBURTON

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 60 words


BULLET marks pepper a car yards away from the home of Tyneside hardman Paddy
Conroy. The tea-time attack saw a gunman blast the car near the ex-villain's
front door.

Paddy told the Chronicle today: "It''s terrifying when your kids are in the
street and there are people shooting guns."

Police say they do not believe it was a random attack.

» Full Story - Pages 2&3

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BULLET-RIDDEN The car outside Paddy's house

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2012 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                            December 2, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Village in arson terror;
Attacks on chief of 'Justice Party'

BYLINE: James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 320 words


GREATHAM is an unremarkable village in Hampshire, lovingly built over the
centuries in a majestic corner of the South Downs national park.

Just over 800 people live in the community, which has one pub, the Greatham Inn,
two churches and a shop.

Now the village is riven by a seething rumour mill over paedophilia, cover-ups
and a string of arson attacks.

At the heart of it all is retired solicitor Don Jerrard, 62, formerly a high
flier at Baker and McKenzie, the world's largest law firm, who has founded the
Justice and Anti-Corruption Party.

Instead of tending roses at his £2million home, he and his allies have spent
their time trying to right the wrongs of society. And with Mr Jerrard's legal
expertise, he is adept at pressing the right buttons.

He failed in his bid to become the crime commissioner for Hampshire but claimed
it as a victory because he gained more than 24,000 votes and converts to his
cause.

Yet his zeal has upset a lot of people and when he went to a parish council
meeting in January 2010, his Mercedes was blown up by an arsonist. Mr Jerrard's
treasurer Jock Trodden, who runs a gas and water pipe business, has suffered
nine arson attacks, one on his house in 2009, causing £100,000 of damage, and
eight on vehicles. Now both men fear for their lives.

Speaking exclusively to the Sunday Express, Mr Jerrard said: "I have an arson
protection system in every room, CCTV, intruder alarm systems and a police radio
alarm system.

"I set about trying to expose fraud and corruption and stumbled on a dreadful
amount of paedophilia.

"For some reason a lot of paedophiles were re-homed in this area. I have
gathered an enormous amount of evidence on paedophile rings, which reach right
to the top of society.

"I cannot discuss names because it could be very dangerous for me."

His wife Susan, 61, said: "We had hoped for a lovely peaceful retirement, but
since Don got this party going all this has happened."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRUSADER: Don Jerrard, left, and the blazing wreck of his Mercedes,
above

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXPscot


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                December 2, 2012
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Village in arson terror;
Attacks on chief of 'Justice Party'

BYLINE: James Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 320 words


GREATHAM is an unremarkable village in Hampshire, lovingly built over the
centuries in a majestic corner of the South Downs national park.

Just over 800 people live in the community, which has one pub, the Greatham Inn,
two churches and a shop.

Now the village is riven by a seething rumour mill over paedophilia, cover-ups
and a string of arson attacks.

At the heart of it all is retired solicitor Don Jerrard, 62, formerly a high
flier at Baker and McKenzie, the world's largest law firm, who has founded the
Justice and Anti-Corruption Party.

Instead of tending roses at his £2million home, he and his allies have spent
their time trying to right the wrongs of society. And with Mr Jerrard's legal
expertise, he is adept at pressing the right buttons.

He failed in his bid to become the crime commissioner for Hampshire but claimed
it as a victory because he gained more than 24,000 votes and converts to his
cause.

Yet his zeal has upset a lot of people and when he went to a parish council
meeting in January 2010, his Mercedes was blown up by an arsonist. Mr Jerrard's
treasurer Jock Trodden, who runs a gas and water pipe business, has suffered
nine arson attacks, one on his house in 2009, causing £100,000 of damage, and
eight on vehicles. Now both men fear for their lives.

Speaking exclusively to the Sunday Express, Mr Jerrard said: "I have an arson
protection system in every room, CCTV, intruder alarm systems and a police radio
alarm system.

"I set about trying to expose fraud and corruption and stumbled on a dreadful
amount of paedophilia.

"For some reason a lot of paedophiles were re-homed in this area. I have
gathered an enormous amount of evidence on paedophile rings, which reach right
to the top of society.

"I cannot discuss names because it could be very dangerous for me."

His wife Susan, 61, said: "We had hoped for a lovely peaceful retirement, but
since Don got this party going all this has happened."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRUSADER: Don Jerrard, left, and the blazing wreck of his Mercedes,
above

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2012 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 3, 2012 Monday

Yemeni security seeks Al-Qa'idah-affiliated cell "planning" terrorist attack

LENGTH: 250 words


Text of report by Yemeni pro-government Naba News website on 2 December

[Unattributed "exclusive" report: "The Security is searching for a cell
affiliated to Al-Abu-Jubarah's Al-Qa'idah which is planning to carry out a
terrorist operation in Sanaa"]

Naba News has learnt that the security authorities in the capital, Sana'a, have
alerted their units to search for an Al-Qa'idah-affiliated cell which is
planning to carry out a terrorist operation in the capital Sana'a.

A security source has told Naba News: "The security authorities monitored
communications between elements from the said cell and its organizational
leadership in the Valley of Al Abu-Jubarah in Kitaf District, Sa'dah
Governorate." The source asserted that the information states that this cell is
preparing to carry out a qualitative terrorist operation.

The source said: "Al-Qa'idah utilizes the area of Al-Abu-Jubarah Valley and the
areas adjacent to the Saudi borders as safe havens where it conducts its
trainings and moves to different directions." The source pointed out that the
majority of Al-Abu-Jubarah's Al-Qa'idah members are Arab "jihadists" who are
from different nationalities and who receive generous support from entities
located in the neighbouring countries.

On 28 November, the area of Al-Abu-Jubarah Valley was under an airstrike by an
American drone which targeted a camp of terrorist groups, killing three of them
and injuring another, according to official statements.

Source: Naba News website, in Arabic 2 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      December 4, 2012 Tuesday 6:44 PM GMT

Has the War on Terror failed? Number of terrorist attacks QUADRUPLE in decade
after 9/11

BYLINE: BECKY EVANS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 732 words



     ·    More terrorist attacks have been recorded but the number of fatalities
          has fallen 25 per cent since 2007
     ·    Western Europeans were 19 times more likely to die in a terrorist
          attack than North Americans in the past ten years
     ·    Only 31 of 158 countries ranked have not experienced a terrorist
          attack since 2001
     ·    In 2011, terrorism had the most impact on Iraq, according to the new
          Global Terrorist Index


Scroll down for video

The number of terrorist attacks each year has more than quadrupled in the decade
since 9/11, according to a study launched today.

The Global Terrorist Index showed that in 2002 there were 982 separate attacks.
By 2011 that had risen to 4,564.

Researchers suggest the U.S. military interventions pursued as part of the
West's anti-al Qaeda 'war on terror' may have made terrorism worse.

It also said it was impossible to prove whether the policy made the U.S homeland
safer.

Despite the increase in attacks in the past ten years, the number of deaths in
terrorists attacks has fallen.

It peaked in 2007 at the height of the Iraq war when 10,009 people died. That
figure had fallen to 7,473 last year.

Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan, India and Yemen have been the most affected by
terrorism in the past ten years.

The rankings were based on the number of attacks, fatalities, injuries and the
level of property damage caused in each country through terrorist attacks.

Steve Killelea, founder and executive chairman of the Institute for Economics
and Peace, which published the report, said: 'After 9/11, terrorist activity
fell back to pre-2000 levels until after the Iraq invasion, and has since
escalated dramatically.

'Iraq accounts for about a third of all terrorist deaths over the last decade,
and Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan account for over 50 percent of fatalities.'

In the decade since 9/11, fatalities from terrorist attacks have increased by
195%, incidents by 460% and injuries by 224%.

VIDEO: What is, and why do we need a Global Terrorism Index?

The upswing in attacks in both Afghanistan and Pakistan only occurred after the
Iraq war, coinciding with heightened U.S-backed military campaigns by NATO and
the Pakistani government respectively, the report said.

The findings suggested foreign powers should think twice before intervening
militarily, Mr Killelea said, even in countries such as Syria, which is already
seeing widespread bloodshed.

Unless the conflict was brought to a swift end, terror attacks might actually
increase, he said.

The index is based on data from the Global Terrorism Database run by the
University of Maryland.

It said the greatest deterioration in 2011 took place in Syria and Yemen.

Yemen has seen a dramatic upsurge in al Qaeda-linked activity in recent years,
while Syrian rebels fighting President Bashar al-Assad have increasingly turned
to suicide attacks and bombings.

Of the 158 countries surveyed, only 31 had not experienced a single event
classified as a 'terrorist act' since 2001.

These included Brazil, Croatia, Ghana, Jamaica and Poland.

Even when the 9/11 attacks on New York and Washington were taken into account,
North America remained the least-affected region over the period studied.

Western Europeans were 19 times more likely to die in a terrorist attack than
North Americans, the report said.

The U.S, Algeria and Colombia had the biggest improvements over the last ten
years.

In 2011, the areas most impacted by terrorism were the Middle East, India,
Pakistan and Russia.

Mr Killelea said 'caution against unwanted consequences' needs to be shown by
policymakers.

He said: 'Terrorism is one of the most emotive subjects of our time. The impact
of terrorism does seem to have plateaued over the last three years but is still
unacceptably high.

'The aim of the GTI is to systematically analyse and quantify the phenomena.

'The GTI examines trends to help inform a positive and practical debate about
the future of terrorism and appropriate policy responses.

'The GTI highlights that many of the countries suffering the most from terrorism
have also suffered from foreign military intervention.

'Although the "responsibility to protect" is paramount, caution needs to be
taken against unwanted consequences.

'I urge policymakers to use the findings of this report to help redefine
tackling terrorism strategies and help shift focus towards peace.'

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 4, 2012 Tuesday 12:48 PM GMT

Western Europeans '19 times more likely to be killed in terror attack than
Americans';
Western Europeans have for the past ten years been 19 times more likely to be
killed by a terrorist attack than Americans, a new study has found.

BYLINE: By Alex Spillius Diplomatic Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 574 words


The first Global Terrorism Index showed that in the decade after the September
11 attacks, North America was the safest region in the world, suffering 127
incidents and 23 fatalities - statistics that will be treated by some as
vindication of its draconian anti-terror regime.

Most terror in the US was perpetrated by environmental, animal welfare and
anti-abortion activists, according to research by the Sydney-base Institute for
Economics and Peace, and the vast majority of terrorist attacks were aimed at
buildings and businesses, with minimal attacks on private citizens. Less than
three per cent were attributed to al-Qaeda.

The survey underlined how al-Qaeda's original leadership in Afghanistan and
Pakistan has been nearly obliterated.

In the year that Osama bin Laden was killed, the core organisation, despite its
enduring notoriety, was responsible for only one terror incident out of 4,656 -
a kidnapping. However, 11 of the most 20 active groups globally were al-Qaeda
linked, and they carried out four of the most lethal attacks.

Western Europe suffered 910 incidents, and 439 fatalities, in the ten-year
period, with Britain alone accounting for 236.

In 2011 Britain was in 28th place in a global at-risk league table, and was the
third most at risk in its region, behind Norway, which suffered the massacre by
Right-wing fanatic Anders Breving Breivik, and Greece.

Apart from high profile al-Qaeda attacks in London and Madrid, the vast majority
of incidents in Western Europe were related to nationalist or separatist
discontent. In Britain, Northern Ireland accounted for the majority of
incidents.

"The difference between western Europe and the US was startling," said Steve
Killelea, the founder of the IEP, whose report is the first to rank and compare
158 countries worldwide over a ten year period to shed light on the impact of
terrorism.

"We hear so much about violence of all sorts in the US and so much about
individual terror incidents. But in Europe there tens to be less reporting
unless there is a major incident."

The data shows the global impact of terrorism has increased significantly from
2002 to 2011, peaking in 2007 - the bloodiest year in Iraq - and then slightly
falling to approximately 2006 levels in 2011.

Iraq and Afghanistan accounted for 35 per cent of the global total number of
terrorist incidents from 2002 to 2011. Ten countries, including Pakistan,
Afghanistan and India, accounted for 84 per cent of incidents.

The survey weighted the total number of terrorist incidents, and the total
number of fatalities, injuries and estimated property damage from terrorism in
compiling its table.

It drew on data compiled by the University of Maryland in the US, which has
documented terror attacks since 1970. Gary La Free director, of the National
Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism at the
university, said that the 9/11 attacks had distorted popular conceptions of
terrorism.

"Contrary to the view of terrorism we commonly get from Hollywood, the vast
majority of terrorist attacks rely on unsophisticated, readily accessible
weapons," he said, and were the work of "

Only 31 of the 158 countries ranked have not experienced a terrorist attack
since 2001.

In 2011 the rate was 91%1.

"This indicates the continued importance of intelligence gathering services with
the aim of preemptively disrupting the terrorist cells prior to them becoming
operational," the report said.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 7, 2012 Friday

Romanian intelligence service helps capture Pakistani plotting terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 296 words


Text of report by Romanian government news agency Agerpres

[Unattributed report: "Two Men Preparing a Terrorist Attack in Romania Were
Declared Personae Non Gratae"]

Bucharest, Dec 6 (Agerpres) -- Two men from Far East, suspected of plotting a
terrorist attack on Romania's territory, were caught with the help of the
Romanian Intelligence Service, SRI spokesperson Sorin Sava told Agerpres on
Thursday [ 6 December]. According to Bucharest Court of Appeal, Pakistani
citizens Ramzan Muhammad and Adeel Muhammad were declared personae non gratae
for 15 years.

"They were supposed to provide aid for the entire operation. One of them had
knowledge in manufacturing explosives. The two persons come from Far East. SRI
supported at the competent court the proposal of declaring personae non gratae
the citizens who were involved in activities meant to severely affect the
national security. Following the sentence of the Court of Appeal, the two people
are held in public custody in order to be extradited from Romania. The Romanian
Intelligence Service, in cooperation with national institutions preventing and
fighting terrorism, has taken a number of complex measures to find out about
preparatory activities for a terrorist act on the territory of Romania during
the winter holidays. They were supposed to be prepared by an extremist structure
ideologically affiliated to Al- Qa'ida organisation. SRI and the other
institutions have monitored the actions performed by the members of this
structure who were in our country as conspirators and wer! e deemed as 'elements
of support,' under foreign coordination. "They are two men who have been
monitored by SRI on the territory of Romania," said SRI spokesperson.

Source: Agerpres news agency, Bucharest, in English 1538gmt 06 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                          Bradford Telegraph and Argus

                            December 7, 2012 Friday

Family left in terror after gold raid gang attack at home

BYLINE: Rhys Thomas

SECTION: BRADFORD NEWS (BRADFORD NEWS)

LENGTH: 569 words


Masked raiders attacked a Bradford mum and tried to suffocate her in a
terrifying gold jewellery robbery at her Bradford home.

Farnaz Khan, her 18-year-old daughter Farzana, and two of her neighbour's
children aged eight and nine were subjected to a harrowing 20-minute ordeal.

It came only a week after a grandfather aged 81 had a gun pointed at his head in
another robbery by a masked gang who stole gold and jewellery, subjecting the
family to a terrifying ordeal.

Police last night said they weren't ruling out the possibility of a connection
between the two robberies.

Mrs Khan, 41, last night said she thought she was going to die when four men
wearing balaclava masks burst into her home on Galsworthy Avenue, Chellow
Heights, at about 6pm on Wednesday after initially knocking on the door.

Armed with a wooden stick, screwdrivers and a spanner, the men pushed Mrs Khan
to the floor and demanded money and gold. When she started screaming for help,
they tried to suffocate her with a cushion and a prayer mat.

A visibly-shaken Mrs Khan, who was also hit on the head and leg with a spanner,
told the Telegraph & Argus: "I was really scared, absolutely terrified.

"I thought I was going to die."

The robbers also broke the house phone to stop the alarm being raised, she said.

Mrs Khan, who has lived in her house for two years, needed treatment at Bradford
Royal Infirmary for a head injury.

Her daughter Farzana said the robbers had knocked on the front and back doors
and then put on a feminine voice to convince Mrs Khan they were friendly.

"We were expecting my aunt, so she thought it was family," said Farzana, who
added that the men had local accents and one had blue eyes. "But when she turned
the key, the men pulled the handle down and pushed open the door.

"They pushed mum to the floor and she was screaming so they started beating her
up. It was horrible."

The two children, who were being babysat, were forced to sit on the sofa in the
living room.

Farzana said she was told to go upstairs by the men, where they "tipped
everything up" in their search for gold and cash.

The raiders fled with a pair of earrings and four gold rings, a haul valued at
about £1,000.

They also took the house keys and locked the four victims inside the property.
Fortunately, one of the children had a mobile phone, which Farzana used to ring
police.

A family friend, who would only give her name as Mrs Hussain, said: "Everyone
knows that Asian gold has gone sky high in price. The police need to do more.
They need to be out on the streets, not driving round in their riot vans and
fancy cars."

Detective Inspector Rick Partis, of Airedale and North Bradford CID said: "We
are treating this incident extremely seriously.

"A stolen Vauxhall Astra was found abandoned on Buxton Place soon after this
incident, which is believed to have been used by the offenders to make away from
the scene.

"It is important that we quickly identify the occupants of this vehicle and
those who burst into the property.

"I would therefore call on anyone in the community who has information to let us
know as soon as possible.

"Likewise, I would like to hear from anyone who may have been approached by
these men, attempting to sell the items they have stolen.

"We are committed to preventing such offences from happening and bringing the
individuals responsible to justice."

Anyone with information can call police on 101 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                            December 7, 2012 Friday
                                   1 Edition

18 years for terror attack

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 62 words


BOSNIA: An Islamist radical has been jailed for 18 years for an attack on the US
Embassy.

Mevlid Jasarevic, a 24-year-old from Serbia, was found guilty of organising and
comm-itting a terrorist act.

Jasarevic spent 50 minutes firing at the US embassy in Sarajevo in October last
year, seriously wounding a police officer before he was hit by a police
marks-man and arrested.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 8, 2012 Saturday

Death toll from terror attack in Kenyan capital rises to five

LENGTH: 298 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati headlined "Two more Eastleigh blast victims die"
published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 8
December

Two more people succumbed to injuries they suffered in the Friday night's [7
December] blast in Eastleigh increasing the death toll to five.

At least six others including Kamkunji MP Yusuf Hassan are admitted to hospital
with multiple injuries following the blast that was caused by a grenade that was
hurled at him.

More police have been deployed to the area [in] a major operation after riots
broke out last night with a group of youths barricading roads. Police had to
fire to the air to disperse the crowd that also lit fires.

The blast had sparked violent protests, with rowdy youth barricading roads with
burning tyres. Police who included GSU [paramilitary General Service Unit]
personnel had to fire to the air to disperse the crowd that also attacked even
journalists. The group said they wanted to flush out known terrorists who have
been operating there.

Mr Hassan, who had been talking to a group of youths after leaving the mosque,
got injured when someone threw a grenade at them.

He suffered a fractured leg and was taken to the Aga Khan Hospital and the
others to the Kenyatta National Hospital, six of them with serious injuries.

The same area suffered a serious blast last month when an improvised explosive
device (IED) that had been abandoned in a bus went off killing 10 passengers.

The incident comes after another blast happened on Wednesday [5 December] in
Joska Nairobi's Eastleigh area where at least seven people were injured and one
succumbed to the injuries.

It is believed the attacks are being committed by remnants of Al-Shabab terror
group.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 8 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 8, 2012 Saturday

Kenyan vice-president calls for "high level inteligence" to stop terror attacks

LENGTH: 366 words


Text of report by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 8
December

Vice-President Kalonzo Musyoka on Saturday said the recent attacks in Eastleigh
require high level intelligence to put an end to it.

He said the government is alert and called on Kenyans to exercise community
policing and to be watchful of the people around them.

"It is important for us to remain calm and not act as though there is no
government," he said. "The government is very alert and such incidents of
grenade attacks need special knowledge."

He was speaking to the press moments after visiting Kamukunji MP Yusuf Hassan at
the Aga Khan Hospital where he underwent surgery on Saturday morning.

The VP said he spoke to Mr Hassan and that he was in a stable condition.

Mr Hassan suffered fractures on his legs during the Friday night grenade attack
at the Hidaya Mosque in Eastleigh in which five others lost their lives.

The MP and his bodyguard were rushed to the Aga Khan Hospital while others
injured in the attack were taken to Kenyatta National Hospital and the nearby
Kilimanjaro Hospital.

Others present during the visit where Nominated MP Mohammed Affey and former
Government Spokesman Alfred Mutua.

Mr Kalonzo also condoled with the families of the people who lost their lives in
the attack at the mosque.

"The people of Kamkunji should exercise patience and their representative will
be in hospital for some time and we will stand by them," he told journalists.

However, he requested Kamkunji constituents, except family members, to refrain
from visiting the hospital.

"Given that is it is security related issue, the hospital cannot grant them
entry as it would not be clear who would be going in to see him," he said. "We
still do not know the intention the attackers had and it is under
investigation."

One of the MP's aides, who was with him at the time of the attack, told the
Sunday Nation that he occasionally went for prayers at that mosque.

He said they arrived for the evening prayers at 6:30 pm and as they were leaving
two hours later, Mr Hassan stopped to talk to a group of people a stone was
hurled at him before the grenade went off.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 8 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            December 9, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Councillor's terror during home attack

BYLINE: VICTORIA McMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 208 words


AN Alliance councillor whose home was attacked by loyalist thugs has spoken of
her 15 minutes of fear.

Ards representative Linda Cleland was alone when loyalist yobs smashed windows
at her house and car during a vicious early-morning attack yesterday.

She described how she woke to loud bangs and hearing someone climbing on the
roof of her Fairfield Court property.

Ms Cleland added: "I heard another explosion and I looked to the window and saw
a stranger out in my garden.

"When you're in the room and it's pitch black and you're trying to find your
phone, and you're quaking - and I mean quaking - because these explosions were
going on all around me."

The politician has lived in the same house for 24 years and cannot understand
why her house was attacked.

She slammed those behind the wrecking spree as "cowards".

Ms Cleland added: "I work hard for this community. I help anybody who comes to
me for help. I've never turned anybody away. For them to do this to me I find
horrifying and unacceptable.

"You don't come in the dead of night when people are sleeping. If they've a
problem, come to me. Speak to me, let us sit down and work out what the problem
is. Don't be a coward."

Two men with scarves covering their faces were seen running from the scene.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Damage... Linda Cleland's Newtownards home

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SMR


                            Copyright 2012 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 10, 2012 Monday

Yemeni Al-Qa'idah prisoners' plan to escape, carry out terror attacks foiled

LENGTH: 744 words


Text of report by Kuwaiti newspaper Al-Siyasah website on 9 December

[Report by Yahya al-Sadami: "Preventing Al-Qa'idah Prisoners From Escaping
Foiled Terrorist Attack on Army and Security Forces; Sanaa Warns Diplomats of
Iranian Assassination Plans"]

A government source in Sanaa uncovered yesterday an escalating concern to the
government and the security services over the Iranian intelligence activity in
Yemen, carried out with the help of movements and organizations that have been
affiliated to Tehran for a long time and others that have recently affiliated to
it.

The Yemeni Akhbar al-Yawm cites the source -who preferred to speak on condition
of anonymity -as saying that "security reports received by the government
uncovered schemes directly planned by Iran and indirectly by its arms in Yemen
to carry out assassination operations against Gulf workers and diplomats in
Yemen."

The source called on the Gulf diplomats to take caution in all their movements,
pointing out that "this scheme comes within the framework of Iran's efforts to
derail the political process and the Gulf initiative, thus causing anarchy in
Yemen."

A local source told Al-Siyasah that about 20 officers from the Iranian
Revolutionary Guard have been in Sanaa for about a month and that they came from
Iran disguised as Shi'i preachers who came by an invitation from the Huthists to
give lectures in a number of their mosques and educational centres in Sanaa.

The source added that they inhabit the Al-Jiraf neighbourhood and that they move
amid tight security procedures taken by the Huthists.

In another context, Minister of Legal Affairs Muhammad al-Mikhlafi said that
suggestions for the drafting of the new Yemeni constitution will be put forward
during the comprehensive National Dialogue Conference. He pointed out that the
process of drafting the constitution, the formation of the drafting committee,
the number of its members, and the suggested constitutional amendments will be
decided according to the Gulf initiative and its scheduled implementation
mechanism. He explained that, during the national dialogue, a constitutional
committee will be formed to start -within six months after the national dialogue
ends-working on drafting a new constitution within three months from the date of
its formation. The committee will suggest steps of discussing the constitution
and put it to a nationwide referendum.

In another context, a security source in Aden Governorate, in southern Yemen,
has told Al-Siyasah that foiling the escape of 28 Al-Qa'idah-affiliated
prisoners from Al-Mansurah Prison thwarted a dangerous predetermined terrorist
plan to that was to be carried out after their escape. The plan aimed at
targeting security and military leading figures, hitting oil installations, and
assassinating foreigners in Aden Governorate and other governorates.

The source confirmed that cell phones were found with the prisoners and that the
prisoners used these phones to contact other Al-Qa'idah elements outside the
prison, including leading Al-Qa'idah figure Sulayman Hasan Muhammad Murshid
Awad, nicknamed Abu Usamah al-Abiy who was arrested a few days ago by the army
in Abyan Governorate.

The source said that a computer with very sensitive information was found,
adding that " the tools used in digging the tunnel, through which the terrorists
wanted to escape, were brought to them from outside the prison by some
Al-Qa'idah women who were allowed to visit the prisoners. Those women provided
the prisoners with a complete map of the prison and aerial photos taken by the
Google Earth website.

He added that "it was an Air Force officer working in the joint-guard of the
prison who discovered the tunnel, and three of the most dangerous Al-Qa'idah
elements were among those who tried to escape. The three are: Qasim Salih
al-Khidr Muhammad, Sultan Muhammad, and Muhammad al-Kazmi. Most prisoners were
arrested two years ago. Meanwhile, the deputy manager of the prison has been
suspended and is being interrogated."

The investigation committee that was formed from some security services started
yesterday interrogating the prison officials and the guards over charges of
negligence and d ereliction, especially since Yemen inherited the prison from
the British during their occupation of Aden when it was used for the detention
of rebels, and it can accommodate 750 prisoners, but now it hosts about 2,000
prisoners.

Source: Al-Siyasah website, Kuwait, in Arabic 9 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 10, 2012 Monday

Yemeni counter-terrorism official injured in attack

LENGTH: 108 words


Text of report in English by state-run Yemeni news agency Saba website

["Security Officer Shot, Wounded Seriously" - SABA Headline]

Sanaa, 10 December (Saba) - A counter-terrorism security officer was injured
seriously after being shot in the capital Sanaa on Monday [10 December], a
security official said.

Muhsin Humran, an officer at the counter-terrorism unit in the Central Security,
was attacked by a terrorist on a motorcycle, who shot twice hitting Humran in
the neck and leg, the source said. The source said that the investigation is
underway to determine the attacker.

Source: Yemen News Agency Saba website, Sanaa, in English 1650 gmt 10 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                     December 10, 2012 Monday 12:01 AM GMT

Britain's use of drones to attack terrorists;
Instead of wrongly comparing drones to "imperial policing", the professors need
to consider how their intended effects differ

SECTION: LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 532 words


Sir, The 14 historians who criticised the use of drone attacks (letter, Dec 7)
have misread the lessons of history. In the War on Terror the most important
perception of Western forces is not whether they comply with debatable and
little-known notions of international "law" but whether or not they are seen to
be winning.

During the 1930s British forces found in Iraq and Palestine that air policing
attacks helped to suppress a number of rebellions, and their modern equivalent -
the drone strike - sends a powerful message that is key to victory. The lesson
which the terrorist's host population need to learn is that the al-Qaeda
associated insurgents are vulnerable and losing the war.

Britain's most able anti-terror commander was Field Marshal Montgomery. He
worked alongside Arthur "Bomber" Harris in Palestine and concluded that the
terrorists "must be hunted relentlessly . . . This is the surest way to end the
war". The academics may find this distasteful, but conversely drone strikes will
lead to peace. They not only allow Britain and the US to strike without loss but
they will lead to the insurgents being rooted out by the communities that
harbour them.

They show that the presence of al-Qaeda is ultimately the cause of much misery
for the inhabitants of the failed states in which terrorists without drone
strikes will prosper.

Robert Oulds Director, The Bruges Group

Sir, As historians of warfare Professors Overy, Toye, Evans et al will know that
civilian loss of life as a direct result of British air strikes has dramatically
decreased since the days of Second World War strategic bombing. Even within the
past ten years Britain has had to reassess its reliance on air strikes after
their misuse hindered progress in Helmand Province. While unable to prevent
civilian deaths altogether, their discriminatory use is nonetheless moving in
the right direction.

Instead of wrongly comparing drones to "imperial policing", the professors need
to consider how their intended effects differ. Drone strikes are not a
manifestation of colonialism, nor are they a means of oppression. Their intended
effect is to disrupt the operations of terrorist groups and networks. It is not
to dissolve groups. Nor is it to decisively stop groups from operating. As the
professors note, several studies indicate that single one-off drone strikes are
unable to do either of these two things.

Disruption, on the other hand, is achievable through drones. While eliminating
one leader has little effect, eliminating several at the same time causes a
chain reaction of movement, promotion, and debate to fill the empty positions.
Meanwhile collateral damage, while regrettable, has also been the catalyst for
some communities in Afghanistan to work with Allied troops. Many communities -
even if they are opposed to foreign troops on Afghan soil - are equally opposed
to jihadis with little interest in the future of the Afghan state. If
co-ordinated with on-the-ground dialogue, drone strikes do not necessarily have
to be alienating. The professors would achieve more by debating not the use of
drones, but how to best empower these communities to expel our common enemies.

J. Edwards Newcastle upon Tyne

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2012 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 11, 2012 Tuesday

Militant outfits threatening to carry out terror attacks in India - minister

LENGTH: 225 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 11 December: Pakistan-based terrorist outfit Lashkar-i-Toiba and
Indian Mujahidin and two Sikh militant groups have threatened to carry out
terror acts in India, Lok Sabha [lower house of parliament] was informed on
Tuesday [11 December].

"The available intelligence inputs indicate abiding interest of militant outfits
like LeT, IM, Babbar Khalsa International and Khalistan Tiger Force to carry out
terrorist violence in India," Minister of State for Home R.P.N. Singh said.

However, central intelligence agencies have no specific inputs indicating threat
from Taliban, he said.

Replying to another question, Minister of State for Home Mullappally
Ramachandran said government was aware of the anti-India sentiments in some
sections of the Nepalese polity and society.

"India attaches the highest importance to its relations with Nepal. There is
close cooperation between the government of India and Government of Nepal on
issues of mutual concern," he said.

The minister said India is assisting Nepal in its socio-economic development in
the areas of infrastructure, health, education, community development etc. "The
government of Nepal has assured that it would not allow its territory to be used
for any activity against India," he said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1037gmt 11 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 12, 2012 Wednesday

Kazakh pundit says elite groups behind terror attacks

LENGTH: 1227 words


Kazakh political analyst Talgat Mamyrayymov says terror attacks that have hit
Kazakhstan in the past few years are part of the power struggle with the
country's political elite. He says some circles are taking advantage of ordinary
citizens' anger at the widespread social injustice and poverty to push them
toward extremist actions. He said the terror attacks in the country are "simply
aimed at satisfying power ambitions of a narrow group of people". The following
is the text of Mamyrayymov's interview with Yerbol Akhmetzhanov entitled "Terror
attacks - consequence of inter-elite fighting" published by opposition Kazakh
Respublika newspaper website on 4 December:

Political analyst Talgat Mamyrayymov dispels myths about Kazakh terrorism and
extremism. The main myth is that this 'vicious ideology' is being imposed from
outside. In the expert's view, our citizens step on 'the path of war" because of
poverty and acute sense of social injustice.

[Q] Talgat, what are your remarks about Kazakh poverty and social injustice
based on? From the high tribunes they assure us that Kazakhstan is prospering.

[A] By all appearances, extremism and terrorism in our country are rooted more
in the ongoing inter-elite conflicts rather than in some kind of foreign
influence. On the whole in the world it is a dominating form of terrorism - as a
tool for achieving political goals by certain elite groups.

Ordinary Kazakh citizens are being used to actually engage in extremism and
terrorism for a certain pay, thus they get at least some work, so to speak,
learn the 'terrorist' profession (laughs).

In Kazakhstan about 30 per cent of people are self-employed and much of them, or
maybe most of them, do not have permanent jobs. Therefore it is no accident that
according to recent data, 29 per cent of Kazakhs do not have their own housing.

We have to take into account also the considerable number of migrants in major
cities who do not have registration [permanent address] and permanent jobs. And
they are under constant police pressure. Such factors cannot but cause strong
frustration among these deprived Kazakhs and push them onto the path of
extremism and terrorism.

In this sense, the statements from high tributes about Kazakhstan's prosperity
are like a mentally ill patient's claims that he is a Napoleon. Only mental
patients, in fact only some of them, can believe such statements. In this
connection, sometimes I get the impression that some Kazakhs are mentally ill.

[Q] You say that the situation when someone drives Jeeps on state money, lives
in luxury houses and at the same time does not follow any basic moral norms,
cannot but cause protest among ordinary Kazakhs, especially Muslims. Why it does
not annoy representatives of the other religions to the extent that they too
could resort to terror attacks?

[A] Saying that this situation causes more protest among the Muslims I meant the
fact that in Islam there is stronger condemnation of usurious capital and all
the behaviour linked to it. It is also necessary to note that the idea of social
justice is central to orthodox Islam, which is growing in popularity in
Kazakhstan.

Naturally, apart from Muslims, representatives of other religions too are
socially deprived in our country. But the Muslims experience more social
injustice in Kazakhstan. It is because the overwhelming majority of the people
living below the poverty line and feeling the negative state pressure are
representatives of the Muslim community.

Besides, currently in our country it is only Islam that is being used as an
ideological wrapping of extremism and terrorism. And this practice will likely
dominate for a long time.

[Q] In your view, can the terror attacks that happened in Kazakhstan be seen as
a form of political opposition to government? None of the Kazakh terrorists has
made any clear political demands. How can you explain it?

[A] The very fact that the terror attacks mainly target representatives of power
indicates political motivation behind this phenomenon. Thus a kind of vote of
non-confidence is passed on the current government or part of its high-ranking
representatives.

In other words, these terror attacks, apparently, are a consequence of
inter-elite fighting for power or some considerable part of it. All the major
players understand it, therefore it is clear for them even without any demands
[made by attackers].

[Q] What forecast can you make: [leader of opposition Alga party] Vladimir
Kozlov, who openly opposed the government, has been publicly executed [allegory;
in fact he has been sentenced to over 7 years in jail]. Could it lead to
strengthening of the radical sentiments among those who have been balancing
between legal and guerrilla politics, pushing them toward terror attacks?

[A] I don't think that these people, even if they wanted, can step on the path
of terrorism. This niche, apparently, has already been taken by other people,
who are involved in major political games in Kazakhstan.

Besides, the case of Vladimir Kozlov will cool down many people. In this
respect, the trial of Vladimir Kozlov is a common practice of intimidation of
those politicians who are trying to go against Ak Orda's [the presidential
headquarters] orders.

[Q] Let's go back to the myths. You believe that the opinion that terrorism in
Kazakhstan allegedly has a powerful material and technical base and much
potential is a myth. You say that the radical groups are divided and therefore
the law-enforcement agencies' task is not to allow these local groups to unite
and establish some coordination among them. What do you think? Will our
law-enforcement bodies cope with the task?

[A] Kazakh terrorism is, figuratively speaking, a one-off tool used according to
the political situation. Yes it has a powerful social base. But those paying the
piper are not going to create a powerful material and technical base for
terrorism in Kazakhstan. If they do, the people behind terror attacks in our
country will simply let the genie out of the bottle, which will be followed by a
powerful statement of political demands from the government. If it happens, our
power-wielding bodies will not be able to counter them at all.

[Q] The NSC [National Security Committee] is now proposing to give a new
definition to terrorism as an ideology of violence and practice of influencing
decisions of the state bodies, local administrations and international
organizations through committing or threatening to commit violence or other
criminal acts, involving intimidation of the public and aimed are harming
individuals, society and state. How would you comment on this NSC proposal?

[A] In the world practice there are several definitions of terrorism. For
adopting an anti-terror law we need a clear definition of terrorism. Apparently,
this NSC proposal is aimed at that.

In essence, it is in line with the dominant international understanding of
terrorism as motivated violence with political aims.

But the problem is that, for example, the political goals of the current
terrorism in the country are, apparently, not in opposition to the entire
political regime - they are simply aimed at satisfying power ambitions of a
narrow group of people.

In other words, these novelties from the NSC will be another case of shooting
sparrows instead of hunting for big game.

Source: Respublika website, Almaty, in Russian 4 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                              Global Banking News

                          December 12, 2012 Wednesday

-US banks could face fresh attacks from cyber terrorists

LENGTH: 89  words


Global Banking News - 12 December 2012

Analysts believe that banks in the US could face fresh attacks from cyber
criminals who have crippled many US banks recently.

A group said to be aligned with attackers who had crippled US bank websites in
the autumn, has threatened another round of attacks.

The Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Cyber Fighters said that the new round of attacks would
be larger in scale than last time. Banks said that they were aware of the
threat.

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to gbn@enpublishing.co.uk ]

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: GBN


                      Copyright 2012 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 13, 2012 Thursday

Kenyan security agencies on high alert over possible terror attack

LENGTH: 434 words


Text of report by Patrick Mayoyo and Peter Ng'etich entitled "Kenya on high
alert over terror" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation
website on 13 December

Security agencies are on high alert following intelligence reports that
Al-Shabab militants [Somali Islamists] were planning a series of terrorist
attacks during the festive season.

This comes in the wake of the arrest of six suspected Al-Shabab terrorists on
Tuesday [11 December] in Ruka area along the Kenya-Somalia border.

Three grenades, two pistols and 84 rounds of ammunition were also seized from
their vehicle.

Kenya has been hit by a series of grenade attacks in which more than 50 people
have been killed and scores injured. Al-Shabab has, in the past, claimed
responsibility for some of the attacks, saying, it was in retaliation to Kenya's
decision to send its troops to the war-torn Horn of Africa country.

The arsenal seized in Jarajila Division, Fafi District, is reported to have been
destined to Garissa [northeastern Kenya] to cause harm during yesterday's
Jamhuri [Independence] Day celebrations.

Speaking to the [Daily] Nation by phone, Garissa County Commissioner Mohamed
Maalim said they have been on high alert after security officers received
intelligence of a possible terror attack.

"The information we have received is that some suspected terrorists are planning
to carry out attacks during this Christmas season," Mr Maalim said.

He said police officers from the rural border patrol unit came across a Toyota
Land Cruiser vehicle with 10 occupants, which sped off after being waved down to
stop.

"Our team of officers gave chase and caught up with them. Four of them jumped
out of the vehicle and escaped on foot," Mr Maalim said.

The administrator said they caught up with the suspects because heavy rains
pounding the area have made panya [illegal] routes impassable.

He appealed to the public to cooperate with security agencies in the war against
terror by volunteering information that could lead to the arrest of the
suspects.

Security agencies are also tracking down Kenyans who fled Kismaayo [southern
Somalia] after it was captured by allied forces on suspicion that they are
couriers for explosives being used in terror attacks in different towns in the
country. They are also suspected to be the masterminds of Al-Shabab activities.

Meanwhile, Kamukunji MP Yusuf Hassan said he would be discharged from hospital
soon following the Friday grenade attack in Eastleigh.

Mr Hassan, who is admitted to Aga Khan Hospital, was injured in the left leg.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 13 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 14, 2012 Friday

Kenyan police arrest five over suspected plans to carry out terror attack

LENGTH: 648 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati entitled "Police 'duped' over terror attack"
published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard website on 14
December

Police were taken on a wild goose chase in Nairobi after they were informed a
salon car had been packed with explosives and was headed for a mission in the
city centre.

A caller claimed on Thursday [13 December] evening a navy blue Subaru Forester
car, registration number KAQ152E, had explosives that were aimed to be used at
an undisclosed place, spinning police into a hunt that did not bore any fruits.

But the owner of a black Subaru Forester with similar registration numbers, Mr
Alex Chege, walked to Central Police Station several hours later and said he had
been informed his car is wanted over allegations of it bearing explosives.

Chege, who runs a private secondary school in Githurai area, said he had
received several calls from friends, relatives and the insurance firm that has
insured his car seeking to know his fate and that of the vehicle.

"I received the first call while I was in a matatu [public minibus] to town and
I thought the caller, who I know well, was joking. It hit me hard when the calls
kept coming and the point when an agent from Amaco Insurance called forcing me
to go and check on it," said Chege.

He said he had left the car at a garage in Ngara area on Thursday at about 5
p.m. [local time] after it developed mechanical problems and left for his home.

Chege, who suspects business rivalry to be behind the call to police, said he
went with the keys of the car home adding he is a law abiding citizen. "Police
have checked the car and failed to find any explosive as claimed. I am asking
them to establish the source of this information because I cannot use it for
now," he said at the police station.

He refused to be photographed saying it can ruin his business. Chege said he had
been using the car for the better part of Thursday before he drove it to the
garage at about 5 pm.

Apparently, that is the time police were informed of the explosives being in the
car being driven into the city centre.

And after he arrived at Central Police Station, the commander, Krop Lipa,
accompanied him to the garage where they oversaw its towing to the station.

Chege said he feared driving it to the station because of the wide circulation
it had had for the better part of yesterday in the media and police
communication channel.

At the station, he was grilled and recorded statements before he was released
but the car was detained.

Central CID [Criminal Investigation Department] boss Richard Bitok said they had
called bomb experts to comb and dust it to confirm if it ever carried the said
explosives.

"We have to confirm if the claims are true of not by involving experts who will
dust it later. We did not find any explosives," said Bitok.

Police had sought the help of the public in tracing the car saying the car was
spotted in Ngara area and Tom Mboya Street in the city but sped off as police
chased it on foot because of the heavy traffic jam that was being experienced
then.

Nairobi Area head of CID Nicholas Kamwende said he was impressed by the way in
which the public responded to the alarm they had raised.

"As much as it can turn out to be a hoax, we are impressed that the public is
alert and really eager to help in such situations. We urge for continued
alertness because terror threats are real," said Kamwende.

He added police are still on alert following continued threats from terrorists
to attack crowds and installations.

In Mariakani area, Mombasa, five suspects were arrested from a bus while enroute
to the Coastal city and a pistol recovered from them.

They were headed to Mombasa when police stopped it for a check and found the
weapon. Coast deputy police boss Robert Kitur said the suspects had a terror
mission in Mombasa.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 14 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        The Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                            December 14, 2012 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack on OAP

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 78 words


A TERRIFIED Rastrick pensioner was taken to hospital after being attacked by a
masked gang in her own home.

Now detectives have urged the local community to help them track down the thugs,
who hit the 85-year-old and stole just a few pounds.

The gang - all wearing balaclavas - burst into the woman's home in Oaks Green
Mount.

Police believe they may have been teenagers and suspect they may well have tried
to get into the house on a previous occasion.

? Full story - Page 9

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ¦ ATTACK: The road where the gang struck

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HDE


                           Copyright 2012 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 15, 2012 Saturday

Pakistan minister equates Mumbai terror attack with Indian mosque demolition

LENGTH: 485 words


Text of report published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 15
December

Pakistan interior minister Rehman Malik on Friday raked up the Babri Masjid
demolition issue and the Samjhauta blast case and also said there was no
credible evidence to arrest the 26/11 Mumbai attacks mastermind Hafiz Saeed.

Sharing the dais with Union home minister Sushilkumar Shinde, Mr Malik referred
to the 26/11 terror attack, saying terrorism brings grief and Islamabad does not
want episodes like the 9/11, 26/11, Babri Masjid demolition and Samjhauta blasts
to happen again.

Mr Shinde, who was on the dais, immediately launched a counter-attack and
accused the Pakistani government of failing to fulfil promises made in the past.
In a brief rebuttal, Mr Shinde said, "You have been outspoken on all fronts. But
we in India keep on talking that earlier, on a number of occasions, promises
were made and that (they) were not fulfilled, and today you have assured. I am
quiet confident that both countries will go forward in bilateral cooperation,"
Mr Shinde said.

Mr Malik's remarks were made in the presence of the Pakistani delegation and
Pakistan high commissioner to India Salman Bashir, while the Indian officials
present on the dais were minister of state for home R.P.N. Singh and home
secretary R.K. Singh, among others. The media was also present on the MHA's
invitation for the launch of the revised bilateral visa agreement. The
implementation of a liberalised visa regime, supposed to be the highlight of Mr
Malik's visit, took a backseat as the ceremony launching it only took place
after the ministers' war of words.

As soon as Mr Malik's impromptu speech was over, the minister of state for home
was seen quietly indicating to MHA officials to nudge Mr Shinde to respond.

The bilateral talks started on an uncomfortable note with Mr Malik also
rejecting claims that Pakistan's 26/11 trial was slow and no action had been
taken against Hafiz Saeed despite evidence given by India. "When Ajmal Kasab was
hanged. I was the first one to come on television and gave the statement that we
respect the judgments coming from your courts... Similarly, when the trial is
going on (in Pakistan), I have already told you that it is on fast track and, of
course, we have gone to every level to make it on the fast track (sic)," the
Pakistan interior minister said. He added that if he is given enough evidence
against Saeed during his visit, he will order his arrest soon after his return
to Islamabad.

Meanwhile, Indian prisoner Sarabjit Singh's sister met Mr Malik and was invited
to visit Pakistan as his personal guest. Mr Malik pointed out that just as New
Delhi wants action on 26/11, Pakistanis want to know how the 2007 Samjhauta
blasts happened. Incidentally, Indian investigators have pointed towards the
role of right-wing extremists in the Samjhauta case.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 15 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            December 17, 2012 Monday

Pakistan blames India for Mumbai terror attack

BYLINE: News Desk

SECTION: ASIA PACIFIC

LENGTH: 489 words


Pakistani Interior Minister Rehman Malik yesterday blamed Indian security
agencies for their "failure" to prevent the Mumbai terror attack and alleged
that Indian non-state actors were involved in the massacre.

Malik also said had there been interaction between Pakistan and India and
regular sharing of information, the 26/11 attack could have been prevented.

He said Pakistani-American terrorist David Headley had conspired with al-Qaeda
terrorist Ilyas Kashmiri, a retired major of the Pakistan Army and three Indian
terrorists--Abu Jundal, Jabbiullah and Fahim Ansari--and roamed freely and
plotted India's worst terror attack.

"So it is not a state-sponsored drama, state sponsored action. It is action by
non-state actors. Triangular nexus between Headley, (Ilyas) Kashmiri, the enemy
of Pakistan, a Major who deserted the Pakistan Army, having joined LeT and of
course three Indians," he said delivering a lecture at Observer Research
Foundation.

Malik said that during investigation it has come to be known that they carried
out a recce of the targets and shot films uninterrupted and without notice of
the law enforcement agencies.

"If you put things together, there are three guys, one coming from the USA, and
he has that money, he has got credit cards, he has moved all over, he had
created franchise, he had created a social circle. All these should have come to
the attention of some agencies.

"Now the agencies failed. Both here and Pakistan. So, we have failed. Why?
Because, there was no interaction between Pakistan and India," he said.

The Pakistani leader advised Indians not to hide matters of terror and
investigation, else things may go out of hand. "Of course, I have to tell the
truth to your country, to your people so that we find a way forward. If you hide
things, the things will continue to move the same way and a time will come when
you will not be able to handle and control," he said.

Referring to LeT terrorist Abu Jundal, who was present in the LeT control room
during the 26/11 attack and was deported from Saudi Arabia recently, Malik said
Jundal had confessed that he was a known criminal, having been charged in many
cases. "He also worked as one of the sources of a very elite agency of India.
Now, see, he has used agencies also and went rogue. Put it another way, you
become a source, you become a double agent. While he is working, living in
India, he might have gone rogue and then these three individuals go to
Pakistan," he said.

On Kashmiri, Malik said, he was a close aide of slain al-Qaeda chief Osama bin
Laden and his deputy Ayman al-Zawahiri and was part of the conspiracy to kill
former Pakistan premier Benazir Bhutto.

"Headley talked about a Major. I particularly investigated that matter. We found
the link. How it is happening. We arrested one Major Farooq. He is an ex-Army
man and used to work for LeT. We arrested him and that guy gave us a lot of
information.''

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 18, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Risk of 'lone wolf' terrorist attack growing

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 221 words


THE threat of an Anders Breivik-style Right-wing attack in Britain is growing,
the Home Secretary suggested yesterday.

Theresa May said that extra resources had been put into monitoring the risk from
Right-wing extremists, especially from a "lone wolf" fanatic.

She said concern had grown in the wake of the Norway attacks in July last year
when Breivik slaughtered 77 people, mostly teenagers.

The spread of violent Right-wing unrest amid the euro crisis, especially in
Greece and Spain, has also increased fears, intelligence sources said.

In evidence to the Commons joint committee on the national security strategy,
Mrs May said: "We've had increased focus on Right-wing groups in the last year
or so, particularly since the Breivik incident in Norway. It's still the case
that we're likely to see a lone actor on the basis of Right-wing extremism."

Right-wing extremism is seen as a domestic rather than an international threat.
It is understood that all bodies involved tackling extremism have been told to
give it more focus, including the intelligence and security agencies such as MI5
as well as the police and other organisations working on the Government's
Prevent strategy.

Work aimed at people who may be vulnerable to Islamic extremism is also being
used to stop others being recruited by Right-wing fanatics.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          December 19, 2012 Wednesday

Afghan religious scholars condemn Taleban terror attacks

LENGTH: 335 words


Excerpt from report by private Afghan Channel One TV (1TV) on 18 December

[Presenter] The increase in civilian deaths in suicide bombing attacks is making
Afghan people and religious scholars angry. A number of religious scholars say
that Islam prohibits suicide attacks and that the government's armed opponents
should put an end to violence in the country. While some civilians were killed
as a result of Taleban terrorist attacks in Kabul and Nangarhar provinces, five
members of a family were killed in a suicide attack in Pakistan yesterday as
well.

[Correspondent] The bodies of the killed individuals in the suicide attack at
the Jamrood bazaar of Khyber Pukhtunkhwa in Pakistan were transferred to Kabul
today and buried. These individuals had gone to Pakistan for medical treatment.

[Passage omitted: Uncaptioned local people saying that the dead were all members
of one Afghan family; Karzai still seeks peace talks with Taleban]

[Senator Anarkali, captioned] Ten schoolchildren were killed and another wounded
when they were collecting firewood for their families. In fact it is a tragic
incident, we hope this incident is investigated seriously and its perpetrators
[punished].

[Correspondent] A number of religious scholars also strongly criticize the
Taleban terror attacks and the killing of the civilians as a result of these
attacks.

[Uncaptioned religious scholar] Suicide attacks are prohibited in Islam and
those who committed suicide attacks will be deprived of God's blessings.

[Correspondent] According to released reports, the number of civilian casualties
in terrorist attacks by the government's armed opponents has increased in recent
months.

[Passage omitted: Background information.]

[Video shows some coffins and a funeral ceremony; President Karzai addressing a
press conference with his German counterpart; Senator Anarkali speaking in a
general parliament session; interviews; archive footage of scenes of some
incidents.]

Source: Afghan Channel One (1TV), Kabul in Dari 1330 gmt 18 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 21, 2012 Friday

Security at Pakistan's Punjab jails tightened following terror attacks

LENGTH: 308 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Lahore, 21 Dec: Security at the jails across Punjab has been strengthened in the
wake of recent series of acts of terrorism in different parts of the country.

Inspector General of Prisons Punjab, Mian Farooq Nazeer, while talking to APP
here Friday said that according to the new security plan, no visitor would be
allowed to enter jail premises without the original identity card.

He said record of all the visitors would be maintained daily and no meeting with
any prisoner will be allowed other than the scheduled time. He asserted that in
case of any security lapse,the Superintendent of Jail will be taken to task.

He said that on special directive of the Punjab Chief Minister, foolproof
security arrangements had been made at all jails in the province with the
deployment of special contingents equipped with sophisticated weapons.

Mian Farooq Nazeer said metal detectors, screening machines and close-circuit
television sets had been installed at all jails to check the entry of
unauthorised items as well as arms and ammunition.

He said all Deputy Superintendents and Assistant Superintendents will also pay
at least two visits daily to barracks assigned to them for maintaining
discipline.

He said he will also conduct surprise visits to jails to monitor security
arrangements, besides checking the quality of food and condition of hospitals.

The IG said that all regional DIGs had also been directed to ensure strict
compliance of the directive by paying surprise visits to jails in their
jurisdiction. He said all Superintendents of Jails had been directed to submit
security inspection report on daily basis to their respective DIG and IG,
failing which strict action would be taken.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0836gmt
21 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                    December 22, 2012 Saturday 10:27 PM GMT

The 'murder and mayhem' squad: Shocking new revelations by former undercover
soldier who carried out 'shoot first, ask questions later' attacks on IRA
terrorists for the British Army

BYLINE: MARK NICOL

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1621 words



     ·    Former British soldier says unit carried out secret campaign against
          the IRA
     ·    Says controversial shootings were carried out by the Military Reaction
          Force
     ·    His accounts are being studied by Historical Enquiries Team


A former British soldier who belonged to an undercover unit in Northern Ireland
has claimed he and his colleagues resorted to 'murder and mayhem' during a
secret campaign against the IRA.

Simon Cursey was a member of a 30-man team which would 'shoot first and ask
questions later'. They shot at least 20 terrorist suspects and breached the
British Army's rules of war.

In support of his allegations, he has provided The Mail on Sunday with detailed
descriptions of some of the most controversial killings in Northern Ireland's
recent history.

Cursey says these shootings were carried out by the Military Reaction Force
(MRF), a clandestine Army team sent into Republican neighbourhoods to eliminate
IRA gunmen.

His accounts are being studied by detectives from the Police Service of Northern
Ireland's Historical Enquiries Team (HET), which was set up to re-examine
suspicious deaths over  the course of 'The Troubles'. More than 2,260 cases are
on its books.

Cursey's devastating disclosures include the claim that he never once cautioned
a terror suspect or fired a warning shot before himself engaging with lethal
force. He said he and his colleagues shot at least 20 men, though he could not
say how many died.

The revelations come a week after a damning report into the 1989 death of
pro-Republican lawyer Pat Finucane that revealed shocking levels of collusion
between British agents and Protestant paramilitaries.

In an interview with The Mail on Sunday, Cursey defended the MRF's tactics,
insisting they were necessary given the dangers he and others faced. Even so,
his recollections, revealed here for the first time, are likely to increase
calls for a public inquiry into the actions of British Forces in Northern
Ireland.

He said: 'We were mostly working alone or in pairs on the dim streets of
Belfast. If I had given a warning I would have been as good as dead myself. The
MRF was a counter-terrorist unit. How do you counter the terrorists? By
terrorising them.

'I have nothing to hide and no element of the MRF's activities troubled me from
a moral perspective. I'm aware the HET is looking into some of these incidents.
But challenging them [the terrorists] was a luxury they were simply not entitled
to.'

Cursey returns to the subject in a draft of new book based on his experiences.
He writes: 'If the IRA believed they could get away with murder and mayhem, it
was the MRF's job to make them see how they liked a taste of their own
medicine.'

Cursey told The Mail on Sunday how the MRF operated. He said: 'At night we would
patrol the streets looking for our special bad boys - they were wanted for
terrorist activities or murder.

'We simply dealt with them, very severely, and then dropped them off at the
roadside for the uniformed forces to pick up later. We never discussed these few
incidents outside our sections and we never asked what other MRF sections were
up to.

'What does "dealt with" mean? What do you think it means? I am not going to tell
you, so don't even ask. But occasionally people turned up with broken arms and
broken legs.'

One of the cases Cursey will discuss is the killing of Patrick McVeigh.  On May
12, 1972, a two-vehicle MRF patrol approached a roadblock set up illegally by
residents in Belfast's Andersonstown area.

Cursey was monitoring the MRF's radio frequency when he heard voices and the
crackle of gunfire - his colleagues were engaging the roadblock it with a
sub-machine gun from an unmarked car.

McVeigh was shot dead and four others were wounded. A coroner later heard that
none of those men had fired weapons at MRF personnel.

Cursey said: 'I don't know for sure if McVeigh and the others were armed but I
wouldn't be surprised if they weren't. At the time they were manning a barricade
because they wanted to control movement in their area. Occasionally we had these
incidents when people on barricades - which were illegal in the first place -
were shot at.

'But we're talking about a ghetto of Belfast at two or three o'clock in the
morning. People on the street said, "Oh, they were innocent," but this  was a
very hostile environment, like Afghanistan or Syria.

'I don't know if there will be an outcry now, I am just giving my assessment
based on close contact information. I was only listening on the radio that night
so I don't think they [the HET detectives] can do me for that.'

His account also includes incidents when he and his colleagues visited notorious
IRA pubs in the Crumlin Road and Falls Road areas of Belfast.

On both occasions, he says members of Provisional IRA active service units were
eliminated. Cursey said MRF soldiers adjusted their 'standard operating
procedures' based on their experiences in Republican neighbourhoods, and in
variance to the Rules of Engagement that British Army personnel were supposed to
follow.

'I would say that we operated on the edge of the law, and only because we had
to, because the situations we found ourselves in required us to act quickly and
lethally'

He said: 'The Rules of Engagement in Northern Ireland were very clear: you were
only allowed to open fire at a person actively shooting at you or someone you
are with. Also, you could open fire at someone aiming a weapon but who hadn't
fired yet. We had our own slight variation on these rules. We opened fire at any
small group in hard areas, neighbourhoods that even looked suspicious, armed or
not - it didn't matter. We targeted specific groups that were always up to no
good. These types were sympathisers and supporters, assisting the IRA movement.

'As far as we were concerned they were guilty by association and party to
terrorist activities, leaving themselves wide open to the ultimate punishment
from us. If someone was picked up and it was discovered that they were illegally
armed, or that they were on our "special" wanted list of IRA killers, they could
be dealt with right there in the countryside: neutralised.

'That said, I don't believe we ever targeted innocent civilians. I would say
that we operated on the edge of the law, and only because we had to, because the
situations we found ourselves in required us to act quickly and lethally. We
were hunting down hardcore terrorists.'

Cursey left the MRF in 1974, the same year the unit was disbanded and replaced
by the larger 14 Intelligence Company, also called 'The Det'.

According to military sources, the MRF had been at a disadvantage because only
as many as nine soldiers could deploy at any one time, with nine more on standby
and the others resting.

The sections were commanded by sergeants or sergeant-majors who had previously
served in elite units such as the SAS, SBS, the Parachute Regiment and the Royal
Marines. The MRF was based at Belfast's Palace Barracks.

Cursey, now in his early 60s, spent four years back with his parent regiment
before leaving the Army.

He says that in spite of the unit's tactics being adopted by 14 Int and the SAS,
the MRF has been denied the public recognition it deserves.

'What about the SAS team that went into the Iranian Embassy, or the SAS team
that took out the terrorists in Gibraltar? They were only doing what we were
doing ten to 15 years earlier,' he said.

Cursey uses a pseudonym for security. His real identity is known to The Mail on
Sunday and he provided this newspaper with his military identification number
and a service history.

The Ministry of Defence has attacked his plans to publish a book  next year.
After reading the draft of MRF Shadow Troop, civil servants called for changes,
including removal of the 'mayhem and murder' reference.

Cursey has agreed to do so but maintains the MRF operated on the edge of the
law.

The MoD report read: 'To suggest lethal purpose [on the part of the MRF] implies
a criminal intent. For operational security reasons we do not confirm the role
and function of special duties units. The MRF was bound by Rules of Engagement,
the same as other units.'

A spokesman for the Police Service of Northern Ireland said it did not comment
on individual cases.

The MoD said: 'Armed Forces have always served in Northern Ireland in accordance
with the strict rules of engagement and subject to UK and international
humanitarian law.

'Soldiers were fully aware of the rules governing the use of force and these
were reiterated in training and before operations. Specific instruction was
given on the circumstances in which it was permitted to open fire. We will
continue to co-operate with any investigations initiated by the Historical
Enquiries Team.'

THE 'UNARMED' MAN SHOT DEAD BY THE MRF

Patrick McVeigh was killed on May 12, 1972. He was said to belong to the
Catholic Ex-Servicemen's Association, whose members claimed not to take part in
terrorist activities. But according to intelligence, CESA members were actively
supporting the IRA.

The CESA had set up illegal barricades on the outskirts of Catholic areas in
Belfast and were checking everyone who approached. An MRF convoy approached and
an MRF soldier fired a Thompson  sub-machine gun, killing McVeigh, 44, and
wounding four others.

At an inquest, an MRF soldier said the convoy had been engaged and had returned
fire. Civilian eyewitnesses suggested that McVeigh and the other CESA members
had been unarmed.

Though Simon Cursey and other MRF soldiers were questioned by police over the
McVeigh shooting, none has ever been prosecuted.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2012 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 24, 2012 Monday

Syrian army's general command says "terrorist" groups intensifying attacks

LENGTH: 212 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["General Command of Army and Armed Forces: Armed Groups' Hopelessness Pushed
them to Intensify" - SANA Headline]

Damascus - The General Command of the Army and the Armed Forces stressed that
the terrorist groups have hysterically intensified lately their attacks on the
economic institutions and infrastructure with the aim of sabotaging the
achievements established throughout decades, in a hopeless attempt to suppress
the Syrian people and dissuade them from their national stance in rejecting
terrorism and rallying around the Syrian Arab Army in confronting the aggression
that targets Syria's role and stance.

In a statement issued on Sunday, the Command said that these attacks are a
manifestation of a state of helplessness and bankruptcy of the terrorist groups,
and those behind them, due to the blows directed by the Syrian Arab Army.

The Command warned of the consequences of such criminal acts, as it stressed at
the same time its determination to pursue the terrorists, crush their remnants
and strike with an iron fist all those who attempt to tamper with the economic
capacities or the security and stability of the homeland.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 24 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 24, 2012 Monday

Iran paper attributes attack on Syrian Palestinian camp to 'terrorists'

LENGTH: 524 words


Text of commentary by Faramarz Asghari headlined: "The defeat of another
scenario" by Iranian newspaper Siyasat-e Ruz on 22 December.


Over the past 21 months, the enemies of resistance have focused the axis of
their initiatives on creating crisis in Syria. Among the moves undertaken so far
is the recent attacks by terrorist groups on the camp that houses the
Palestinian homeless known as Yarmuk. Although Western and Arab media and
political circles have tried to attribute this act to military groups, a review
of the trend of developments is indicative of objectives planned by the West in
this camp, which encompasses the entire region. The West has tried to execute
the scenario of confrontation between Syria and the Palestinians. In order to
take action against Syria, the West is clutching at any tool but so far it has
been unable to be particularly effective in this respect and it has resorted to
foreign based terrorist groups. They are now seeking to exploit the potential
offered by Palestinian camps for action against Syria. The important point is
that the West is attempting to change the Palestinians' enemy from the Zionists
to Syria so that in a confrontation between Syria and the Palestinians, the
Zionists can obtain their anti-resistance objectives. In principle, the West has
tried to divert Syria from the path of fighting terrorism on the one hand and on
the other to push the Palestinians away from fighting their true enemies,
meaning the Zionists, toward confrontation with Palestine's main supporter,
meaning Syria.


Furthermore, by creating a human rights climate with regard to the Yarmuk camp,
the West is seeking to justify hostile actions against Syria, while using the
defense of Palestinians as the pretext for this approach. The fundamental point
in the Yarmuk issue is to create a challenge within the entire resistance front.
The West is determined to place the pillars of resistance such as the Islamic
Republic of Iran and Lebanon's Hezbollah in a situation where they have to make
a choice between two options; they must either stand alongside Syria or the
Palestinian front. The West has tried to engage the entire resistance front in a
domestic confrontation and to destabilize its integrity.

There is also another scenario at work in the Yarmuk incident; by using Yarmuk,
the West is trying to reopen the case of the Palestinian homeless and prepare
the ground for the conspiracy of settling the Palestinian homeless in target
countries. According to this conspiracy, the return of the Palestinian homeless
to their country is over and done with and the Zionists continue to occupy more
of Palestine. Another part of this scenario will also be put into effect in the
camps for the Palestinian homeless in Lebanon.

Despite all these initiatives, the refusal by the residents of Yarmuk camp,
Syria, and the resistance front to take part in the West's game, in effect
defeated this conspiracy and news sources have reported that 80 per cent of
Yarmuk has been cleansed of terrorists supported by the West and the return of
the homeless to this camp.

Source: Siyasat-e Ruz, Tehran, in Persian 22 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 24, 2012 Monday

Power restored to Damascus neighbourhoods in Syria following "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 281 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Electricity Restored to Some Damascus Neighbourhoods after Terrorist Attack on
High Voltage Tower" - SANA Headline]

Damascus - Minister of Electricity, Imad Khamis, stressed that the maintenance
workshops repaired all outages and damage caused by the terrorist groups' attack
on the high-voltage tower which feeds Al-Fursan power transmission plant in
Al-Mu'adamiyeh area in Damascus Countryside.

Inspecting the situation at Al-Fursan plant, Khamis pointed out that the plant
was put into service again, which helped restore electricity to the areas
affected by the electricity outage in Damascus city.

On December 10th, an armed terrorist group attacked the Electric Power
Transmission Plant 'Qaboun 2' in Al-Qaboun neighbourhood in Damascus.

Governor of Aleppo Muhammad Wahid Aqqad on Saturday [22 December] stressed that
authorities are sparing no effort to restore electricity and water to all the
areas in Aleppo city as soon as possible.

In a statement to SANA, Aqqad added that the attacks of armed terrorist groups
on electricity cables and pylons resulted in cutting the power of the water
pumping stations. He said that Aleppo's City Council and the Civil Defence
Department are providing water to neighbourhoods through tankers until the
problem is solved.

The electricity was restored to several neighbourhoods in Alppo city after
maintenance workshops fixed the damages caused by the armed terrorist groups to
the power cables.

A source in the province told SANA reporter that the priority currently is to
provide power to water pumps and hospitals.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 24 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 25, 2012 Tuesday

Kenyan court releases on bond terror suspect accused of grenade attack

LENGTH: 264 words


Text of unattributed report entitled "Court releases terror suspect on
10m-shilling bond" published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation
website on 25 December

A Nairobi court has released on bond a terror suspect accused of hurling a
grenade into a guest house and injuring two people in Eastleigh [Nairobi].

Mr Mohamed Jaylan was on Monday [24 December] charged before a Nairobi
magistrate's court but set free on a 10m shillings [118,000 dollars] bond and
two Kenyan sureties.

Police have accused him of throwing a hand grenade into Buffalo Guest House
along Muratina Road in the populous estate.

He was charged with executing a terrorist attack contrary to Prevention of
Terrorism Act. The charges indicate that he committed the act on 16 December
with others not before the court.

Police said the attack caused injuries to Mr Justus Muklwa and Mr Meitake ole
Salaash.

Nairobi Principal Magistrate Peter Ndwiga, who awarded the bond, scheduled
hearing on 10 March.

Eastleigh has been the target of a string of deadly grenade attacks since the
Kenya military moved into Somalia to hunt down Al-Shabab militants.

The attack on Buffalo Guest House came one week after a similar attack on a
mosque in the estate killed two people injured area MP Yusuf Hassan. The MP was
the first government official to be direct victim of the Eastleigh attacks.

Two days before, another grenade attack had killed one and injured six others in
the area.

The attacks have always been followed with protests and reprisal attacks by
rowdy youths.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 25 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 27, 2012 Thursday

Taiwan warns against non-essential travel to Nigeria after "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 287 words


Text of report in English by official Taiwanese Central News Agency website
(CNA)

Taipei, 27 December - Taiwan urged its nationals Thursday [7 December] to avoid
non-essential travel to Nigeria, especially during the coming week, amid
concerns over another terrorist attack taking place in the African country's
capital.

Nigerian police have received intelligence that Nigeria's Islamist sect Boko
Haram is likely to launch another attack in Abuja during the Christmas to New
Year period, said Bruno Shen, deputy director-general of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs' Department of West Asian and African Affairs.

"We thus advise our nationals who plan to visit Nigeria for business to stay
alert, especially those who plan to visit the capital," he said at a regular
news briefing.

The ministry already issued an "orange" travel alert for Nigeria in late
November, warning Taiwanese travellers to avoid unnecessary visits to the
violence-torn country.

Nigerian official data pointed out that attacks by Boko Haram has resulted in
more than 3,000 deaths since 2009, when the group was established, Shen said.

There are some 100 Taiwanese businessmen living in Lagos, Nigeria's economic
center, but so far, no deaths or casualties have been reported, the ministry
said.

Meanwhile, Shen also warned Taiwanese nationals against making non-essential
visits to other African countries facing internal military conflicts such as the
Democratic Republic of Congo and the Central African Republic.

The ministry has also issued an "orange" travel alert for these two countries.

An "orange" alert is the second highest on the ministry's color-coded travel
warning system.

Source: Central News Agency website, Taipei, in English 0835gmt 27 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 27, 2012 Thursday

Terror attack might be behind Kazakh plane crash - Kyrgyz expert

LENGTH: 566 words


Excerpt from report by privately-owned online Kyrgyz news and analytical agency
Vesti.kg

Local military experts think that there is a link between the events at
Arkankergen [14 border guards and one ranger were killed at the Arkankergen
border post in May 2012] and the plane crash.

On Tuesday, 25 December, a military plane An-72 crashed near Shymkent [the
administrative centre of South Kazakhstan Region]. According to the media, it
belonged to the Border Service of the National Security Committee [NSC].

According to the NSC's press service, there were seven crew members and 20
servicemen on board the plane. Flying from Astana to Shymkent, it exploded near
its destination.

According to some data, Turganbek Stambekov, acting director of the NSC's Border
Service, was among the deceased.

[Passage omitted: covered details of the plane crash]

Here one recalls the story of the Arkankergen border outpost in Almaty Region.
There, on 30 May this year, the bodies of 14 border guards and one civilian were
found. Vladislav Chelakh, border guard who served at this border outpost, was
found guilty of their murder. At present, he was sentenced to life imprisonment,
and is serving his term in a special security colony. At that time, Nursultan
Nazarbayev, without waiting for the completion of the investigation, confidently
said that this was a terrorist attack. But why now, when the tragedy of larger
scale occurred, the Kazakh authorities are not even considering the version of
sabotage.

In an attempt to shed light on the situation, Vesti.kg contacted local military
experts.

"I flew on an An-72 plane, and I can assure clearly that this is a first class
plane and is very reliable," Toktogul Kakchekeyev, military analyst and
independent political scientist, has said. "I do not rule out the version that
this is a terrorist attack. The plane was carrying out a local flight. Also, if
sources are correct, there are people who saw that the plane exploded in the
air. And only after that it fell to the ground. Comparing the situation at
Arkankergen and the death of the head of the NSC's border service, one can say
that, most probably, they have a common root. The versions presented by Kazakh
authorities are inconsistent and improbable. One madman is not capable of
killing 14 armed and equipped soldiers on his own. Even if he was insulted by
his fellow servicemen, as it was described. There is also a theory that in this
way rich hunters - oligarchs - were amusing themselves. But even this theory
does not hold water. Most probably, this is Chinese rebels' handiwork, in other
words, undeclared war against Kazakh border troops. It squares well with the
recent incidents - the elimination of Turganbek Stambekov, director of the NSC's
Border Service, because of his professional activity," [Kakchekeyev said]

However, another expert Leonid Bondarets has said that one should not exaggerate
things.

"According to some data, the plane tried to land four times," he said.
"Obviously, the incident took place because of bad weather conditions. In any
case, one should wait for an official conclusion before stating something. I do
not see a link between the May events at the border outpost and the plane crash.
There was a guy who was tired of bullying and here - bad weather conditions. One
should not dramatize the situation," he said.

Source: Vesti.kg, Bishkek, in Russian 0335 gmt 27 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 27, 2012 Thursday

Kenyan paper urges new police chief to curb rampant insecurity, terror attacks

LENGTH: 325 words


Text of editorial entitled "The country has rarely ever been this insecure"
published by Kenyan privately-owned newspaper Daily Nation website on 27
December

Inspector-General of Police David Kimaiyo was sworn in on 24 December, making
his ascension to the top the best Christmas gift he could have asked for.

But barely two days before that significant event, 40 Kenyans were slaughtered
in a raid at Tana River [southeastern Kenya], the second one this year pitting
the Orma and the Pokomo [ethnic groups]. In all, more than 150 people have died
in the region in the past five months.

When you add to these macabre statistics the number of Kenyans who have died in
attacks by suspected terrorists, there are all indications that Kenya has become
more violent than it has ever been, except for the 2007-2008 post-election
violence period.

This is an extremely traumatising situation for a country going into a
highly-charged election. Experience teaches that in such circumstances, reason
habitually flies out the window while raw emotions and blood-lust take over.

The gist of it is that Mr Kimaiyo takes over the police service at a time when
the country is again on the verge of imploding. He must ensure this does not
happen.

One of the most cited characteristics of the police force is that it is peopled
by officers who are at once corrupt and demoralised, under-equipped and
undervalued.

It is also a fact that there are not enough officers to maintain law and order
in an environment where illegal small arms have proliferated and terrorism
raised its hideous visage.

The answer may be in comprehensive police reforms in accordance with the new
constitution. Mr Kimaiyo's appointment is just the first step in that direction.

He will need to push hard to see that it gains momentum in the months to come,
for that may be the only way to stem the rising insecurity.

We wish him the best of luck.

Source: Daily Nation website, Nairobi, in English 27 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                           December 27, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

NOVEMBER 12, 2012 Dissidents aim to kill more in each attack;
New republican terror gang seeks to 'prove itself'

BYLINE: BRIAN ROWAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 747 words


THE new dissident IRA is plotting "multiple casualty attacks" - with a senior
intelligence source describing background activity as "relentless".

This latest assessment comes just weeks after the murder of prison officer David
Black, and after police seized Semtex explosive devices capable of piercing
armoured vehicles.

In a reference to those finds, the source said: "We've done well to get ahead of
them."

It's a sentence that describes a constant intelligence battle and the fine line
between life and death - what dissidents would term success and failure.

Leaders of the new IRA coalition are said to be determined to "prove
themselves", and the overall assessment means the possibility of a so-called
spectacular attack cannot be ruled out.

Police officers remain the principal targets.

Detailing that relentless background activity, the intelligence source said it
included constant meetings, attack planning, conspiracies with key figures
"walking and talking" often in forest parks trying to avoid the watching and
listening of police and MI5.

Asked about the threat and the potential scale of what was being planned, the
source responded: "Multiple casualty attacks - that's their aspiration, what
their conspiracies direct them towards. "They are ambitious in what they want to
do," he continued, "in effect prove themselves."

The source cautioned that it is not just about a few "notable individuals".

"What concerns me is the next set of people, the people who are not so readily
named," he said.

"There are notable individuals, (but also) other people, equally significant,
but who have kept a lower profile," he said.

The latest IRA grouping emerged in July as a pull-together of several factions.
These include the Real IRA, Republican Action Against Drugs (RAAD) and a number
of "unaffiliated" dissident figures.

It has brought under the one roof those who carried out the attacks on police
constables Peadar Heffron and Ronan Kerr, and on the soldiers at Massereene.

The murder of David Black, at the beginning of last month, is also now part of
that list of violent actions. It is why the threat level here remains at
'severe'.

But it will take time for PSNI intelligence and MI5 to fully assess the
capabilities and capacity of this latest IRA coalition.

Clearly the amalgamation is designed to bring together equipment and expertise
and to eliminate weakness.

And the building of this new terror coalition is on-going, with the intelligence
source describing a "winnowing process" - meaning the weeding out and dumping of
those under suspicion and not trusted.

The organisation is operating in many parts of Northern Ireland, in border
counties and in Dublin.

And the police/MI5 counterstrategy is concentrated on the group's finance,
equipment and personnel.

"We need to be razor-sharp... not allowing them a windfall, a propaganda
windfall," the intelligence source said.

He pointed to arrests, planned attacks interrupted, devices seized, significant
amounts of cash found and success against dissident smuggling and
counterfeiting.

And the source emphasised two other key factors - "little or no public support"
for the dissident factions, and greater co-operation with police investigations
from within the nationalist/republican communities. This, he said, can be seen
in the David Black investigation, adding: "It's surprising the people who are
now helping us."

Comment, see Page 28 BIRTH OF A MURDEROUS NEW GROUP July 26, 2012: Statement
announcing new IRA - a coalition of Real IRA, Republican Action Against Drugs
(RAAD) and 'unaffiliated' dissidents.

October 4, 2012: Semtex armour-piercing device found in north Belfast.

November 1, 2012: Prison officer David Black murdered in drive-by shooting as he
travelled to work on M1.

November 11, 2012: Speaking at a republican commemoration, Sinn Fein MLA and
one-time senior IRA leader Gerry Kelly dismisses dissident coalition: "Ordinary
people are finding it more difficult to detect any semblance of political
struggle when it comes to these small groups, no matter what grand titles they
choose for themselves."

November 12, 2012: New IRA admits Black murder.

November 12, 2012: Under-car booby-trap bomb found on road in Ballygomartin. It
later emerges that the target was a soldier and device had fallen from his
vehicle.

December 6 2012: Semtex armour-piercing device seized in intelligence-led police
operation Derry.

December 2012: Senior intelligence source says the aim of dissident IRA plots is
"multiple-casualty attacks".

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                           December 27, 2012 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Terror cell suspects  planning attacks

BYLINE: NO BYLINE

SECTION: HS - NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 127 words


DUBAI: Security forces have arrested a cell of UAE and Saudi Arabian citizens
which they say was planning to carry out militant attacks.

The US-allied UAE, a federation of seven emirates and a major oil exporter, has
seen a rise in Islamist sentiment in recent years, and Dubai, a business and
tourism hub that attracts many Westerners, could make an attractive target for
Islamist militants, analysts say.

The arrested group had acquired materials and equipment for use in terrorist
operations.

A statement from the official WAM news agency said an  organ-ised cell from the
deviant group  was planning attacks in the UAE and Saudi Arabia and  some
brotherly states .

The phrase  the deviant group  is often used by Saudi authorities when
describing al Qaeda members.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2012 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 30, 2012 Sunday 8:33 PM GMT

Subway attacker 'pushed victim in revenge for September 11';
A woman charged with murdering a man who was pushed to his death in front of a
New York subway train, chose her victim because she wanted revenge for the
September 11 terror attacks, prosecutors have disclosed.

BYLINE: By Mark Hughes New York

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 200 words


Erika Menendez, 31, is said to have told detectives that she pushed Sunando Sen,
46, onto the tracks at a subway station in Queens.

District Attorney Richard quoted Miss 3 in a statement as having told police: "I
pushed a Muslim off the train tracks because I hate Hindus and Muslims. Ever
since 2001 when they put down the twin towers I've been beating them up."

Mr Sen was a Hindu. No Hindus were involved in the September 11 attacks.

Mr Sen was pushed onto the tracks at the 40th Street-Lowery Street station on
the train line which runs into Times Square. He was pushed from behind in an
unprovoked attack and did not see his assailant.

A woman was seen fleeing the station and CCTV footage was released to the media
. Miss Menendez was arrested early on Saturday morning. She has been charged
with second degree murder as a hate crime and faces upwards of 20 years in
prison if convicted. She has been ordered to undergo a psychiatric evaluation.

The death of Mr Sen is reminiscent of Ki Suck Han who was thrown in front of a
subway train at Times Square after getting into an argument with a fellow
passenger earlier this month.

Mr Han's murder was captured on camera by a freelance photographer.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2012 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 31, 2012 Monday

Syrian ministry denounces terrorist attacks against scholars

LENGTH: 147 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["Ministry of Religious Endowments: Terrorists attacks against scholars prove
takfiri war against mode..." - SANA Headline]

Ministry of Religious Endowments (Awqaf) on Sunday [30 December] said that the
terrorist attacks against scholars and directors of Awqaf directorates prove
that the war launched against Syria is a war led by Takfiri and terrorist
organizations against the moderation and tolerance of the Syrian religious
thought.

In a statement, the ministry stressed that the martyrdom of Director of Raqqa
Awqaf Directorate, Shaykh Abdullah al-Salih, will not stop the great people of
Syria from continuing their march towards victory against terrorism.

Earlier, an armed terrorist group assassinated Shaykh Abdullah al-Salih in
Al-Raqqa province.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 30 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 393 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            December 31, 2012 Monday

Iran MP accuses West for terrorist attacks against Shi'is - website

LENGTH: 113 words


Excerpt from report by Iranian news channel Press TV website

Iranian MP Javad Heravi has accused the West for terrorist attacks against Shi'i
Muslims, Press TV website reported on 30 December.

The report quoted the remarks made by Heravi in an interview with the Majlis
official news agency (ICANA) as saying that "terrorist attacks and heinous
crimes against Shi'is are planned by the West" as Shi'i principles are against
those of the West.

He also stated that the hatred against Shi'is has grown among atheist groups and
Wahabis, and that such actions are all pre-planned.

[passage omitted: background information]

Source: Press TV website, Tehran, in English 2334gmt 30 Dec 12

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 393 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                            December 31, 2012 Monday
                                   Edition 1;

They were just about t about to to go for lunch when when car bomb was found
found a of;
Foiled attack is the latest piece of evidence ; that terrorists are upping
deadly game

BYLINE: Brian Rowan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 398 words


JUST days ago a senior intelligence source speaking to this newspaper described
dissident republican activity, including attack-planning, as "relentless".

He explained that the main targets are police officers and that the conspiracies
involve both the dissident IRA coalition and the faction that calls itself
Oglaigh na hEireann.

The aim of these plots is "multiple casualty attacks" with the dissidents trying
to "prove themselves" in a deadly war game that has continued long into the
developing peace.

And, in yesterday's bomb find in east Belfast, we see once again that thin line
between life and death - between what the dissidents would term success and
failure.

The Assistant Chief Constable George Hamilton (below) described this latest
incident as attempted murder involving dissident republicans opposed to the
peace process.

Those dissidents have been out there for 15 years using bombs and bullets in a
violent opposition to the peace and political processes, and in an attempt to be
heard. Their attacks have been occasional and sporadic.

What intelligence experts are watching for as this latest IRA coalition is
developed, is whether there is a move towards more sustained activity.

If it happens, then this will be the step change.

And, in recent weeks, there is evidence in what has happened and in what has
been prevented and interrupted, to show that the dissidents are trying to take
things to another level.

Just days after the murder of prison officer David Black, a bomb was found on a
road in the Ballygomartin area of Belfast.

It had fallen from a car driven by a soldier - the magnets failing to hold the
deadly device underneath the car.

And this was another example of that fine line between life and death.

Then, a Semtex device capable of piercing armour was seized in a planned or
intelligence-led police operation in Londonderry.

It is the type of bomb that would be fired at the side of a police vehicle, a
device that could give the dissidents the type of deadly result they have been
trying to achieve.

And, yesterday, they came close again with that bomb discovered under the police
officer's car in east Belfast. The dissidents haven't gone away and they
continue to try to make themselves more relevant.

In the past few weeks a soldier and police officers have had the luckiest of
escapes after being targeted by republicans unable and unwilling to end their
wars.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gunned down: David Black
A car is cordoned off yesterday after the bomb find in east Belfast. Below, an
Army bomb expert examines the device MAIN PICTURE BY ALAN LEWIS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2012 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-893
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:06:54

