



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:58:39
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 5, 1984

Terrorist bomb attacks kill two in Jakarta

LENGTH: 158 words

DATELINE: JAKARTA


Two people died and 16 were injured in explosions that ripped through two banks
and a shop in Jakarta's Chinatown district yesterday, the garrison commander,
General Try Sutrisno, said.

'People with terrorist tendencies' were responsible, he said, adding that all
three explosions occurred at 8.30 am, on the eve of Armed Forces Day
celebrations today.


General Try said that 14 of the injured were in a branch of Bank Central Asia.
Seven were described as heavily injured, and seven lightly. The bank is partly
owned by one of the country's richest Chinese-born business tycoons, Liem Sioe
Liong, known to be close to President Suharto.

General Try said that two people died and one was seriously injured when another
explosive device blew up at a small Chinese-owned general store in the Glodok
shopping centre.

One person was injured when another device exploded at the credit card branch of
the same bank, he added.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 29, 1984

Arabs die in Jewish terror attack on bus / Israel

BYLINE: From ARIE HASKELL

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Jewish terrorists are believed to have been responsible for the attack yesterday
on an Arab bus here which killed one passenger and wounded 10 others.

The bus, travelling from Jerusalem to Hebron, was badly damaged by a rocket
which penetrated the roof before exploding. Police searched the area and found
the US-made rocket launcher with a note in Hebrew saying that the attack was
revenge for last week's murder of two Jewish students.


The Police Minister, Mr Chaim Bar-Lev, said that, although the letter was
written in bad Hebrew with many grammatical errors, he was convinced that those
responsible were Jews. The letter stated, the minister said, that since the
Government was not fighting Arab terror adequately and was not 'handling Arab
murders with sufficient gravity,' those responsible would continue to act until
the Government imposed the death penalty.

The minister who is opposed to capital punishment, said that no democratic
society would permit people to take the law into their own hands and he was
confident that the attackers would be caught soon.

Two passengers who were seriously injured were taken to hospital and are now
said to be out of danger. The remainder were taken to an Arab hospital in East
Jerusalem; most have been sent home.

Last night, police were holding three suspects. but said no specific evidence
linked them to the attack.

In condemning the attack, the Prime Minister, Mr Shimon Peres, promised that the
Government would do everything in its power to stamp out all forms of terror.
The father of one of the murdered Jewish students whose death was supposedly
avenged said that he was repelled by the killing of all innocent people.

A Palestinian employed as a guard at a Jerusalem school is being held in
connection with the murder of the students. Police said he told them that he
killed the couple as part of his recruitment into the PLO.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 23, 1984

Curfew over Sri Lanka in wake of terror attack: Government acts to prevent wave
of revenge on Tamils

BYLINE: From ERIC SILVER

LENGTH: 576 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


The Sri Lankan Government acted swiftly and decisively yesterday to prevent
communal retaliation for Tuesday's Tamil terrorist attack on a police station in
Jaffna peninsula.

An island-wide curfew was imposed yesterday morning, and will stay in force at
least until 6 a. m. local time today. Yesterday and today were also declared
public and bank holidays to discourage any movement of people.


The official death toll stood yesterday at 29, with another seven policemen
receiving treatment for injuries. A spokesman said that all of the rubble had
now been cleared and that no more bodies were likely to be recovered.

The Tamil Eelam Liberation Organisation (Telo), which claimed responsibility for
the operation, put the number of dead as high as 130 'commandos and soldiers.'

Even if the lower figure is correct, the assault on the police station at
Chavakachcheri, about 10 miles east of Jaffna, exacted the heaviest losses in
any guerrilla strike on the security forces. The previous highest toll was 13
soldiers killed by a landmine in July, 1983.

That provoked a massacre of Tamils by members of the majority Sinhalese
community in Columbo and other southern towns. About 400 lost their lives. The
government is determined to avoid a repetition.

President Jayewardene must know that another bloodbath would destroy any chance
of negotiating a political solution to Sri Lanka's ethnic problem. It would also
invite Indian intervention in the sensitive month of an election campaign.

Round table talks have struggled along for almost a year, but the Government is
no nearer reconciling the demand of the Hindu and Christian Tamils for regional
autonomy and Sinhalese insistence on preserving the island's Buddhist identity.

The prospects have already been diminished by months of terror and official
counter-terror. Tuesday's massive attack at Chavakachcheri brought the death
toll among security personnel to 126 since 1977. More Tamils have been killed by
the army and police in the past year alone, and many of the revenge victims had
nothing to do with terrorism.

The National Security Minister, Mr Lalith Athulathmudali, appealed to the
Sinhalese to stay calm and avoid retaliation, but, regardless of the response,
the round table talks are now unlikely to resume as planned on December 14. As
one Sri Lankan official reflected yesterday: 'We shall have to see how soon the
Government can contain things and get back to normal.'

The Telo fighters have demonstrated yet again that the relatively moderate Tamil
politicians cannot reach a settlement without their acquiescence. They hold a
veto over an inadequate bargain,

The scale and efficiency of Tuesday's assault confirms the impression that the
'Tigers' are now better equipped and better trained. This was no hit-and-run
ambush, but a fully-fledged military operation, involving about 250 men and
large quantities of arms and explosives. It is unlikely that it could have
succeeded without the support, passive if not active, of the local Tamil
population.

It made a mockery of the Government's boast that it had mounted an air-and-sea
blockade of the narrow Gulf of Mannar separating the Jaffna peninsula from the
south Indian state of Tamil Nadu, where the terrorists have their bases and
training camps. The continued campaign also suggests that the security forces
have a lot to learn from their Israeli mentors in counter-terrorism

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 27, 1984

Thatcher raises terrorist spectre to attack miners / British Premier equates
trade unionists with IRA and Libyan terrorism

BYLINE: By IAN AITKEN, Political Editor

LENGTH: 913 words


The Government, led by the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary, yesterday
relaunched its campaign to link international terrorism and the IRA with the
activities of the striking miners, Mr Arthur Scargill and what Mrs Thatcher
called 'the fascist left.'

The case was put by Mrs Thatcher and Mr Leon Brittan in separate speeches which
clearly mark a significant escalation in the Government's campaign to present
itself as the last bastion of law and order.


Mrs Thatcher launched her attack at a lecture to an invited audience at the home
of Conservatism, the Carlton Club, and Mr Brittan addressed a public meeting to
open the campaign for the Enfield/Southgate byelection caused by the death of
Sir Anthony Berry in the Brighton bombing.

It was Mr Brittan who most clearly identified terrorism with the NUM last night.

After pointing out that the byelection had been called by an act of criminal
violence, he went on to declare that crime and violence threatened the people of
this country in many other ways. It was the supreme duty of the Government to
ensure that the forces of law and order were equipped to meet and beat that
challenge, he said.

In the coal dispute, said Mr Brittan, concerted criminal violence had been used
on an unprecedented scale for political as much as industrial gains.

But the objectives of violence had not been attained, because the Government had
not been prepared to bow to it The current violence reflected the frustration of
failure rather than the arrogance of success.

Mr Brittan went on to argue that although remarkable courage had been shown by
working miners, it was the skill and courage of the police which had enabled
them to return to work in such numbers. 'Only the massive mobilisation of police
resources kept the coalfields from being forced to shut by mass pickets within
days of the start of the strike,' he said.

Mrs Thatcher made much the same point in rather more elegant words. She took
democracy as her theme and declared that Britain must never give in to the
coercion of the many by the ruthless manipulation of the few.

She insisted that respect for the rules of a democratic society must not be used
to allow the minority to overbear the tolerant majority.

'Yet these are the very dangers which we face in Britain today,' she added. 'At
one end of the spectrum are the terrorist gangs within our borders and the
terrorist states which finance and arm them. At the other are the hard left
operating inside our system, conspiring to use union power and the apparatus of
local government to break, defy and subvert the laws.'

Her basic message was that the Conservative Party had a unique responsibility to
protect democratic society now that Labour had been taken over by the left.

In Britain's long history the Conservative Party had sought successfully to
conserve the church, the monarchy, the House of Lords and the constitution. 'Now
the mantle has fallen on us to conserve the very principle of parliamentary
democracy and the rule of law itself - to conserve them for all the people of
all parties and of none,'she said.

Mr Brittan launched the most violent attack on Mr Scargill so far heard from any
minister. He said that as each day passed Mr Scargill's behaviour was plumbing
new depths. He accused him of refusing to stop his followers from using violence
against the police or against working miners and their families.

'This shameful silence is more than just inertia,' he said. 'It goes beyond a
craven washing of the hands. For it shows all the world with crystal clarity
where the moral responsibility for the violence lies.'

Recalling the beating-up of a working miner on Friday, and the burning of
another working miner's home, Mr Brittan claimed that Mr Scargill seemed ready
to condemn arson but remained unwilling to condemn 'an act of loathsome
savagery' against one of his own union members.

He concluded that 'Mr Scargill does not just hate our free and democratic system
and seek to do everything he can to discredit and damage it; he also feels equal
hatred and contempt for those miners whose servant he is meant to be but whose
tyrant he has become.'

He went on to claim that Mr Scargill had been rumbled by decent trade unionists,
by the general public, and by increasing numbers of his own members who were
sickened by the violence and the mob rule.

Mrs Thatcher sought to put the matter into historical terms. She declared
herself confident that Britons would never lack brave hearts or sound laws to
defend their freedom. 'When injustice threatens we can mobilise the commonsense
and common law of Britain, and look to our parliamentary democracy to signal the
dangers and shape he laws,' she said.

She acknowledged that she was delivering the second Carlton lecture, in
succession to the Earl of Stockton, who had delivered the first. It was Lord
Stockton who delivered a fairly successful maiden speech in the Lords this month
in which he appeared to distance himself from Mrs Thatcher's brand of
Conservatism.

Mrs Thatcher got her own back last night, however. She recalled that it was Mr
Macmillan who had given her her first ministerial job. 'Some 20 years later, as
Prime Minister, it gave me the greatest pleasure to recommend Mr Macmillan for
his highly deserved and widely acclaimed earldom on the occasion on his 90th
birthday,' she said. It was recognised as a most effective political put-down.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 18, 1984

Police kill terrorist as attack backfires / Ulster

BYLINE: From PAUL JOHNSON

LENGTH: 732 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


One Republican paramilitary member was killed and a companion captured in
Northern Ireland yesterday, as another terrorist operation went dramatically
wrong.

They were intercepted by police as they tried to flee from the scene of a huge
landmine explosion which ripped apart a vehicle carrying members of the Ulster
Defence Regiment. Seven soldiers were hurt and two were in hospital last night
in a serious condition.


The paramilitaries, principally the IRA, have lost eight men in the past 15 days
in three separate incidents.

In the build-up to Christmas there has been an increase in terrorist activity
and yesterday, the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Mr Douglas Hurd,
said it had always been likely that this would happen.

Earlier this month, an IRA squad waiting for an RUC patrol was ambushed by
soldiers. One soldier and gunman died in the subsequent shoot-out. Two other
members of the IRA unit were captured and another is missing, believed to have
drowned in an attempt to escape by swimming across a nearby river.

Twelve days ago two IRA men who drove into the grounds of a psychiatric hospital
in Londonderry, intent on murdering a member of the staff who belonged to the
UDR, were shot dead by undercover soldiers thought to be from the Parachute
Regiment.

The presence of police at the scene of yesterday's attack was described last
night as 'a simply remarkable coincidence' but the other two incidents came
about through information supplied by an IRA informer in the north-west of the
province.

Luck has also played a part in avoiding a greater loss of life during this spate
of violence.

A car bomb exploded without warning outside a night club in Hollywood, Co. Down,
on Sunday, only half an hour after it had closed. Police said it was remarkable
that the shrapnel bomb had not killed many people. There were no injuries.

In a second attack claimed by the Irish National Liberation Army, a booby trap
device intended to kill the controversial Unionist politician, Mr Gregory
Campbell, fell off his car. He said yesterday that he would not be intimidated.
'I knew for some time there was going to be an attempt. I am relieved that it
has happened because the pressure was building up.'

A landmine hidden in a culvert blew the UDR Land-Rover to pieces yesterday. The
attack came on a narrow country road in Co Armagh between Armagh and Moy.

Two UDR Land-Rovers were escorting a Post Office van when the leading vehicle
was blown off the road in an explosion which left a 10ft-deep crater.

The RUC said a routine police patrol car was heading towards the scene from an
other direction. Two men running across the fields were intercepted.

Police recovered two loaded firearms, ammunition and a grenade. It is thought
that the weapons had not been fired.

The man being questioned last night by the police was said to be Aiden Grew of
Armagh, the brother of Seamus Grew, a member of the outlawed INLA, who was shot
dead by police in 1982. This was one of the incidents that gave rise to
allegations that a shoot-to-kill policy had been adopted by the security forces.

Mr Hurd said yesterday of the recent increase in terrorist activity: 'It simply
illustrates that they have had a poorish few months in terms of murderous
results.

'Having been disappointed in terms of results it was always likely towards the
end of the year that they would try to step things up. Everybody should be
conscious of security matters.'

The IRA said that one of its men was believed to have died from exposure or
drowning as he tried to escape after a shoot-out with soldiers earlier this
month in Co Fermanagh.

Lance-corporal Alistair Slater, aged 28, of the Parachute Regiment, died along
with a terrorist, Anthony McBride, aged 27, when soldiers came across terrorists
waiting to ambush a police patrol. Two other men, including the Maze escaper,
Seamus Pious Clarke, were captured later the same day in Eire.

A statement released yesterday through the Irish Republican Publicity Bureau
said all but one of the IRA men involved had been accounted for.

He was last seen close to where the gun battle took place and is thought to have
tried to swim a river in an attempt to flee across the border into Eire. His
name was not given but there was a plea for people living in the district to
search for a body.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 2, 1985

Terror hits the clinics / 'Army of God' attacks legalised abortion in the US

BYLINE: From ALEX BRUMMER

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


As revellers swayed in the misty rain to the beat of the Four Tops at the Old
Post Office on Pennsylvania Avenue in the early hours of New Year's Day, an ugly
drama was being played out just a few miles down the road.

South-east Washington was the setting for the latest violent incident in a
dangerous wave of social terrorism sweeping across the United States. The
terrorists, believed to be a shadowy group calling themselves the 'Army of God'
struck some 27 times in 1984 and have just notched up their first success of the
New Year.


The target of the attackers have been America's abortion clinics which have been
put under a virtual siege by anti-abortion groups angered by Congress's refusal
to roll back the historic Supreme Court decision 11 years ago which brought
abortion out of America's back alleys into the doctors' surgeries and clinics.

Over the last 12 months, against the background of a tumultuous political debate
on abortion, the justice Department has recorded some 150 incidents of vandalism
and harassment against the clinics in addition to the bombings.

As yet, no one has been killed during the violence. But since the Army of God
came out of the closet at least one Illinois doctor, who carried out legal
abortions, has been kidnapped. And the Supreme Court justice Mr Harry Blackmun,
who wrote the original majority decision for the court has been under constant
threat. The waiting-rooms of clinics have been splashed with red paint, the
tyres on physicians' cars have been slashed, and patients now have to be
escorted into clinics by armed security guards.

Despite this swelling catalogue of violence against legal medical facilities,
the Reagan administration, which is an outspoken critic of terrorist activities
around the world and has protected government faciliies in Washington to an
extraordinary extent, has been virtually silent. The FBI, which has
responsibility for America's internal security, has left the investigations to
the much less influential Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.

In the presidential debates the Democratic nominee, Mr Walter Mondale, clashed
bitterly with President Reagan on the morality of the abortion issue. He took
the President to the cleaners for adhering to the line of the Rev Jerry Falwell,
the head of the moral majority, and one of the fundamentalist clergymen who sent
abortion to the top of the socio-religious agenda. It was under the Falwell
influence that the Republican platform included a provision which made a
'pro-life' stand a condition of appointing Federal judges to the bench.

The effect of this stirring debate and President Reagan's sweeping victory in
November was to inspire the anti-abortionists to new more intense levels of
protest. Having failed to persuade Congress to ban abortions, although there are
now strict limits on Federal funding for the procedure, the pro-lifers have gone
outside the political system.

As the pro-abortion lobby has noted, the vandalism and the bombings do not occur
in isolation. The presence of protesters outside an abortion clinic is usually a
signal for the extremists to join the fun. Some 46 anti-abortion protesters were
arrested outside the Metropolitan Medical and Women's Centre in Wheaton,
Maryland, just 48 hours before a bomb ripped the clinic apart over the
Thanksgiving holiday. A few days later, local radio stations were informed that
the Army of God was responsible and planned to destroy other clinics.

The Army of God first emerged as a phenomena in 1982 after two abortion clinic
bombings in Florida. Mr Donald Benny Anderson, a 42-year-old estate agent,
identified the group during his trial in which he was given 30 years in prison
for the two bombings and the kidnapping of the Illinois doctor. But
investigators argue that the organisation has no central cell or command, but
consists of a series of isolated groups. This is partly the reason why the FBI
has thus far declined to label the incidents terrorism and thereby take full
responsibility for the investigations.

If the purpose of the vandals and bombers is to prevent women exercising their
constitutional right to an abortion they may be having some measure of success.
Entering a clinic is no longer the simple procedure of simply turning up at the
front desk and registering as it was before the violence of the last few months.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 29, 1985

Nato warships come under mortar attack / Terrorist attack in Lisbon harbour in
Portugal

BYLINE: From JILL JOLLIFFE

LENGTH: 242 words

DATELINE: LISBON


The leftwing Portuguese terrorist group, Popular Forces of 25th April (FP-25)
claimed responsiblity for an unsuccessful mortar attack on Nato warships in
Lisbon harbour yesterday.

Officials said the attack appeared to be part of a Europe-wide campaign of
violence against Nato.


Three mortar bombs were lobbed from a park above houses in a suburb on the banks
of the Tagus, but all fell short of the six ships, which included the British
frigate Arethusa. They curved over houses and a highway, two of them exploding
harmlessly in the river, while the third exploded on the docks, falling 100
yards short of the nearest ship.

The terrorist group later claimed responsibility for the attack in calls to news
agencies here.

It was FP-25's second attack on a Nato target in Portugal in two months and its
eighth attack this year. It coincides with a series of recent attacks on Nato
installations

The six ships, which are taking part in Nato exercises, sailed out of Lisbon
harbour six hours after the attack.

Last June police arrested about 50 people during a crackdown on FP-25. Some of
the suspects have since been released for lack of evidence but most are awaiting
trial, including Lieutenant-Colonel Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho, a leader of the
1974 revolution.

The Portuguese Justice Minister, Mr Rui Machete, says that police evidence in
the FP-25 case includes proof of links with international terrorist groups.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 30, 1985

The unholy alliance behind Europe's new terror / Groups behind recent terrorist
attacks in Europe

LENGTH: 832 words


An international terrorist 'peace movement,' with thousands of prominent
Europeans on its death list, is emerging in France, West Germany and Belgium.
Its declared aim - to combat what it calls the 'Nato-imperialistic war being
prepared in Europe' - converges with the aims of the established peace groups.

Some of the terrorists' targets already attacked - US bases, armaments factories
and centres of the European arms export industry - are also the same as those of
the peace movement. Only the methods are different, with the peace movements
graduating from demonstration to obstruction, and the terrorists in France
moving on from symbolic attacks on buildings to the planned murder of key
soldiers, politicians, officials and industrialists.


The new threat came into the open a fortnight ago with the announcement of an
unprecedented 'merger' between the two most prominent leftwing terrorist groups
of France and West Germany - the Red Army Faction and Action Directe. The
announcement promised attacks 'against the multinational structures of Nato, its
military leaders, its plans and its propaganda.'

The group has evident links in Belgium - the proven source of explosives in
recent attacks in both West Germany and France. The Belgian Fighting Communist
Cells group has staged 13 attacks on Nato targets in the past three months.
There is a link with Italy, too. Several members of the Italian Red Brigades
have been arrested in France while operating with Action Directe and more are
known to be at large.

Responsibility for last Friday's murder in Paris of General Audran, head of the
Defence Ministry's arms export division, was claimed within minutes by Action
Directe. It follows clear warnings from the groups themselves, and from security
officials in Washington, Bonn, Paris and Brussels that large numbers of senior
officials are at risk. London is clearly not exempt.

The French calculate that 500 military and civilian targets are at risk in
France alone. Action Directe, a six-year-old group, had announced a change of
strategy, from symbolic action to assassination, in a series of statements.

Alarm has been intensified by the prison hunger-strike of 35 Red Army Faction
leaders who claim seperate treatment as prisoners of war. The strike,
deliberately modeled on that of the Irish prisoners led by Bobby Sands in 1981,
has been going on since December 4 and lawyers for some families involved have
claimed the authorities 'want them to die.'

Since thew beginning of the hunger-strike. there have been 40 petrol-bomb and
arson attacks on Nato and industrial targets in West Germany. The latest, which
failed and killed the terrorists, was against an aerospace computer centre in
Stuttgart.

The Chief Public Prosecutor, Kurt Rebmann, warned last week that if one of the
striking prisoners should die the terrorists would proceed to attack
'figureheads of society.' A similar warning came in France from the army chief
of staff, General Lacaze.

Action Directe bombing targets have included the headquarters of Western
European Union - the almost moribund body selected by France and Germany as a
possible form for expanding defence cooperation in Europe - and the Atlantic
Institute which Action Directe called a spearhead of American - 'war strategy
for Europe.'

Moves to bring European governments closer, under Nato leadership, are being
denounced by the terrorists as much as by the peace movements. An Action Directe
communique last November accused 'American imperialism' of trying to 'reinforce
the unification of oppression on European territory for the development of
homogenous political, economic and military structures in this region.

The change in the terrorists' targets and methods may be due in part to the
pressure of police measures. Action Directe has almost all its leading activists
- 19 of them - in prison. Only the founder, Jean-Marc Rouillan and his
companion, Natalie Menigon, are still at large, often escaping by a
hairsbreadth, like Bonnie and Clyde, from police traps in Paris or Brussels.

The German and Italian movements have also fared badly. Police estimate only 20
active Red Army Fraction terrorists are still active with some 400 potential
helpers. In Italy the Red Brigades have lain low since the failure of their
kidnapping of an American general.

The various groups have perhaps been pushed towards a merger because they are
too weak on their own. But who else is behind them? In Italy. prominent
officials have suggested the Americans may be secretly helping terrorism in
their country as a form of political pressure on the government.

On the other hand, the new anti-war direction of terrorist targets could suggest
Soviet backing. However, one effect of the terrorists' new strategy is that the
frustrated fringe of the peace movement could be tempted to join the violence.
If that happened, the peace movement would be weakened, which is not what Moscow
wants.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 4, 1985

Bishop warns of anarchy danger as four IRA victims are buried / Terrorist attack
on Newry police station in Ulster

BYLINE: From PAUL JOHNSON

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


Four more victims of the latest spate of IRA violence were buried in Northern
Ireland yesterday.

At a service for Sergeant John Dowd, aged 31, one of the nine Royal Ulster
Constabulary members killed in the mortar attack on Newry police station last
Thursday, mourners were told that the people of Northern Ireland would have to
show a new determination to live moral and peaceful lives.


The Bishop of Down and Dromore, the Right Reverend Robin Eames, said that the
alternative was anarchy.

Speaking in Warrington, County Armagh, at the service for Sergeant Dowd, a
married man and a member of the force's drug squad, the bishop said that the RUC
was the community's defence and principal bulwark against terrorism.

The funeral also took place yesterday in Kilkeel, County Down, of the most
senior ranking of the Newry victims, Chief Inspector Alex Donaldson, aged 41,
and in Sixmilecross, County Tyrone, a service was held for Constable Ivy Kelly,
aged 29, a married woman.

Private Trevor Harkness, aged 36, a father of five, the Ulster Defence Regiment
soldier killed on Thursday night when an IRA booby trap bomb exploded when he
was on patrol, was buried yesterday in Cookstown, County Tyrone.

On Saturday three other victims of the Newry mortar attack were buried. The
funeral in Hillsborough, County Down, of Reserve Constable Geoffrey Campbell,
aged 24, who had been in the force for only a morith, was attended by the
Reverend Ian Paisley.

The leader of the Democratic Unionist Party told mourners that the Government
had failed in its duty to defend the security forces.

The funeral of Constable Rosemary McGookin, aged 27, was held in Portadown,
County Armagh, and Constable David Topping, aged 22, was buried in Lurgan,
County Armagh.

The funerals of the three other vicitims, Reserve Constable Sean McHenry, aged
19, single, of Newtonards, County Down, Reserve Constable Dennis Price, aged 22,
single, from Glengormy, County Antrim, and Reserve Constable Paul McFerran, aged
33, single, of Belfast, will be held today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 2, 1985

Athens lawyer shot dead / Terrorist attack in Greece

BYLINE: From GEORGE COATS

LENGTH: 205 words

DATELINE: ATHENS


An Athens public prosecutor was shot dead in a suburb here last night, the
fourth terrorist attack in Athens this year.

Mr George Theophanopoulos was shot in Kalithea by what witnesses described as
two men riding a motorcycle. The attackers escaped, and last night no claim of
responsibility had been made.


Mr Theophanopoulos was shot near his home when he was returning with his two
sisters-in-law in his car. The only witness, according to reports last night,
was an eight-year-old boy.

One police source said that the 17th of November Organisation, which has
remained undetected despite a series of politically motivated killings over the
past decade, may be responsible.

Mr Theophanopoulos had no known political links and had not been involved in any
political cases. Another police source claimed that his current investigation
involved a pornography case.

Meanwhile, Greece's opposition conservatives last night moved a censure motion
accusing the presidium of Parliament of violating the constitution and
parliamentary rules in Friday's election of Mr Christos Sartzetakis as Head of
State.

New Democracy, the main opposition group, refuses to recognise the presidency of
Mr Sartzetakis.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 8, 1985

The Media: How to counter-attack when terrorists are hijacking the airwaves /
Implications for British media of the TWA hijack drama

BYLINE: By PETER FIDDICK

LENGTH: 730 words


Send in the A-Team: just as you thought there was no twist left in the affair of
the TWA hostages and the US media, there came the word that the Reagan
Administration, if it couldn't make international law stick in bringing the
killers of Robert Dean Stethem to book, was preparing to let slip the dogs of
war, Frederick Forsyth style, with federal greenbacks flashing to bring the
bounty hunters of the world into the chase.

Until that moment, Ronald Reagan had a point. The instant we had seen that
startling image of a camera crew on the tarmac besides the hijack aircraft,
interviewing its captain with his captor's approval this was clearly a different
sort of happening.


Television was allowing itself to be used in a familiar way but at a new level
of influence. Until now, it had always been a nation' political leaders who
grabbed the chance of going on to television live, to get their message to the
people, without the media gatekeepers' cynicism getting in the way. Now the
terrorists had hijacked the airways - to get their message instantaneously,
direct to Reagan and Peres.

No wonder the President was worried. No wonder a murmur could be heard last
week, in the vicinity of Downing Street, indicating that the sinister
development had not gone unmarked, and that the activities of the British media
in similar circumstances might receive rather earlier attention.

But before we ever get to the point where a British jumbo is wheeled from the
skies to some unscheduled hell-hole, it is worth noting that a whole bundle of
issues are wrapped up in the American experience and that some of them are
heading out of any nation state's control.

The main ethical comparison is presumably disposed of already, the idea that
money might change hands to get special access to hostages.

The key to the new situation is, first, television's ability to give live and
continuing coverage, and second, that the action is taking place on the patch of
some other probably unsympathetic, regime.

It is easy enough for the authorities to set the rules for the media on home
ground. Recent American experience in the matter of the Philadelphia siege, and
its incendiary finale, might lead one to suspect that their difficulty might be
in restraining the civil power rather than the media, but in Britain we have
seen the Libyan embassy siege and before that the Iranian stake-out and commando
raid covered in orderly fashion, somewhat to the dismay of teams from countries
with a more free-booting tradition.

But abroad, it is different. And it is increasingly different as we go deeper
into the age of the new media, with satellite transmission between continents
and cable systems able to offer a multiplicty of outlets far beyond the
traditional national system - urged into being by governments, indeed, for that
very purpose. One effect of that is to make more space available for
programming, a void filled as easily by news as by anything else, and almost as
cheaply if you can serve up hours of material from the same place.

Some parts of the world can already taste the dislocating effects of this
development. In Tokyo, in the small hours of the morning, I recently found
myself watching into trial of Claus von Bulow, live from the East Coast of the
USA, with breaks for local announcements punched in regardless of the loss of
whatever sense any viewer may have made of it, thousands of miles and several
time-zones away. This is real life as global wallpaper, but if someone will
invite the cameras in, there is no stopping it. Mr Ted Turner, of Atlanta,
Georgia, on whose CNN channel this case happened to be, is not his oriental
brother's keeper, he just pumps out the pictures. His service hits Europe in
September.

But I use CNN as an example only. There will be others, And where does the
avowed policy of 'light touch' regulation on cable systems leave a national
government once such systems are part of people's lives?

And the final conundrum: even if a government does retain the power to pull the
curtain down at home, how much does that ameliorate the political problem? Would
it have greatly helped President Reagan to have had his citizenry less disturbed
by that constant, close-up reportage from Beirut, if it was being seen in
London, Paris, Jerusalem, Damascus even? If you shut your eyes, does it go away?

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 8 1985, Monday

Powell attacks Thatcher over terrorism / Ulster Unionist MP criticises British
Premier

BYLINE: Our Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62184.

LENGTH: 123 words


The Prime Minister and President Ronald Reagan have aided and abetted terrorism
in the United Kingdom and have failed to live up to their publicly stated aim of
defeating terrorism anywhere and everywhere in the world, Mr Enoch Powell said
in a speech at the weekend.

The Official Unionist Party MP for Down South said in Downpatrick that IRA and
Irish National Liberation Army terrorists were using the Republic of Ireland as
a base.


In the wake of the TWA jet hijack in Beirut, he said, Mr Reagan had called on
the international community to 'unite against nations that give terrorists safe
haven'. But Mr Powell said that both the United States and the British
Government had 'aided and abetted' Irish terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 10, 1985

Verdicts today in Israel terror trial / Jewish terrorist group charged with
attacks against Palestinians in the occupied West Bank

BYLINE: From our own Correspondent

LENGTH: 202 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


One of the longest and most controversial trials in Israeli history is to end
today, when verdicts are handed down on members of the Jewish terrorist group
charged with attacks against Palestinians in the occupied West Bank.

Fifteen of the original 27 accused are to be dealt with in the Jerusalem
district court on charges of murder, attempted murder, explosive offences, and
membership of a terrorist organisation.


Ten of the defendants have already been convicted, and two others, released on
bail, are still awaiting trial. The case, which began over a year ago, has been
highly political throughout, with the accused and their rightwing supporters -
including government ministers from the Likud party - claiming they acted in
response to Arab violence.

The army spokesman meanwhile announced yesterday that security forces have
rounded up a Palestinian terrorist group in the Hebron area of the West Bank.
The spokesman said that members of the group have confessed to the murder of two
Israeli civilians last month.

Two houses in the village of Sureif said to belong to the members of the group
were destroyed. A third house was sealed up and several villagers were arrested.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 11 1985, Thursday

Israeli settlers found guilty of terror attacks on Arabs

BYLINE: From DAVID BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Issue 62187.

LENGTH: 636 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Israel's most politically controversial trial ended in the Jerusalem District
Court yesterday with the conviction of three Jewish terrorists on charges of
murder and 12 others on charges of attempted murder, manslaughter, membership of
a terrorist organization, and conspiracy to blow up the Dome of the Rock on
Jerusalem's Temple Mount.

The panel of three judges found Manachem Livni, the chief defendant and leader
of a Jewish terrorist underground operating in the occupied West Bank between
1980 and 1984, guilty of premeditated murder for his part in the August, 1983,
massacre at Hebron's Islamic College in which three Palestinian students were
killed and many more were injured.


Livni was also found guilty of causing grievous bodily harm in planning the
June, 1980, bomb attacks on three prominent West Bank mayors, which badly maimed
the Mayor of Nablus, Mr Bassam Shake, who lost both legs, and the late Mayor of
Ramallah, Mr Karim Khalas. The third target, the Mayor of Al-Bira, Mr Ibrahim
Tawil, escaped injury. The prosecution had demanded a conviction of attempted
murder but the three judges ruled that the attempt had been to injure and not
kill.

The court also found Shaul Nir and Uziahu Sharabaf - like Livni, residents of
the restored Jewish quarter in Hebron - guilty of murder for their part in the
1983 campus massacre and of attempted murder, for planting booby-trapped hand
grenades in two Hebron mosques. No one was hurt in the latter incident.

All three will receive life imprisonment for their involvement in the Hebron
college massacre, the mandatory sentence under Israeli law for premeditated
murder.

The 12 other defendants convicted yesterday will receive shorter terms for their
involvement in the 1980 attack on the mayors, the 1983 college massacre, a
conspiracy to blow up the Dome of the Rock and last year's abortive attempts to
blow up several Arab-owned buses in the Jerusalem area - the incidents which led
to their arrest 14 months ago.

The court began hearing pleas for leniency before sentence is passed. These
included an impassioned critique by Lieutenant-General (Reserve) Rehabam Ze'Evi,
a former adviser on terror to the Prime Minister, of what he claimed was the
Government's 'soft' policy on the occupied West Bank since the late 1970s.
General Ze'Evi alleged that matters had been allowed to get totally out of hand,
'the terrorists had dared to lift their heads', and the Jewish settlers there
had been left with no choice but to take matters into their own hands.

This was the line of defence taken by the defendants but rejected by the court
earlier this year, an action which led to the 15 men standing trial to dismiss
their lawyers and refuse to testify.

The trial has been a subject of intense public debate in the past 14 months,
which came to a head in May after Israel's release of 1,150 convicted
Palestinians in return for three Israelis captured in Lebanon. This provoked a
widespread call for the dropping of all charges against the 15 defendants still
standing trial and clemency for the 10 already convicted and sentenced in a
series of plea-bargaining deals

The issue strikes at the heart of Israel's delicate internal political balance,
as the clemency cause has been universally endorsed by all the country's
religious parties, which hold the key to any narrow-based coalition should the
present fragile National Unity coalition fall apart.

This is a particular dilemma for the Labour Party which unlike Likud, has been
openly critical of the terrorist underground. But it is now unlikely to stand in
the way of the call for clemency that is certain to follow sentencing, as this
would totally alienate the religious parties and dash any hope Labour may have
of forming a government without Likud.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 30, 1985

Spanish admiral dies in attack by suspected ETA terrorists / Shooting of Fausto
Escrigas

BYLINE: From JANE WALKER

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: MADRID


A senior Spanish naval officer was shot dead by suspected Basque terrorists in a
street in central Madrid yesterday.

Vice-Admiral Fausto Escrigas aged 59, died in a burst of machine-gun fire as he
was driving to his office at the Defence Ministry. His driver, Francisco
Maranon, aged 57, was taken to hospital with bullet wounds in his head.


Admiral Escrigas had been chief of defence policy for the past 18 months. The
Defence Minister, Mr Narcis Serra, who worked closely with the murdered man,
described his death as 'a personal blow.'

The shooting happened in a narrow street near the admiral's home when his car
was forced to stop by a double-parked car. Witnesses reported that a bearded man
jumped out of the car, fired a burst of bullets at the admiral's car, and sped
away with two accomplices, one of whom is believed to have been a woman.
Eighteen 9mm Parabellum cartridges, the type regularly used by ETA, were found
at the scene.

More than 30 people have died in Basque terrorist attacks so far this year.
Fifty armed forces' officers have been killed by terrorists since ETA murdered
the prime minister, Admiral Luis Carrero Blanco, in 1973.

The getaway car with false number-plates was found soon after the murder in a
nearby street. The police evacuated the surrounding buildings before exploding a
packet containing cartridge explosive which was found in the car.

A manhunt to trace the killers began within minutes of the murder. Roadblocks
were placed on all roads from Madrid, spot checks were set up, and all
passengers leaving from the airport, bus and railway stations wore checked by
the police.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 16, 1985

German terrorists attack US radio / Transmitter tower bombed in West Germany

BYLINE: From TONY CATTERALL

LENGTH: 266 words

DATELINE: BONN


Terrorists yesterday bombed a transmitter tower belonging to the American Forces
Network in Monchengladbach about 10 miles west of Dusseldorf.

The attack was the fourth in eight days to be carried out against the American
armed forces stationed here. No one has claimed responsibility.


After the latest attack, an American spokesman said that 'two incendiary
devices' had been found - and safely defused - in a search of an equipment
storage depot.

Early reports said that the bombing appeared to have been carried out in a
'rather amateurish manner,' suggesting that it was not the work of the highly
professional Red Army Faction. The RAF has claimed responsibility for last
week's car bomb attack at the American air base in Frankfurt in which two people
were killed and about 20 injured.

The RAF is also believed to have murdered a US soldier in nearby Wiesbaden just
a few hours before - presumably to get his identity card for easy access to the
heavily-guarded base.

The Monchengladbach attack appears to be the work of copycat 'free time'
terrorists, who planted defective fire bombs in a US military train in Frankfurt
early on Monday morning.

A letter claiming responsibility for that attack used language similar to the
RAF's -speaking of a 'contribution to the struggle against the Nato
infra-structure' - but did not carry the organisation's five pointed star with
inset machine-pistols.

Police in Frankfurt said the attack did not appear to be the work of the
Revolutionary Cell, an amorphous terror group which has not been heard of for
some time.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 22 1985, Thursday

Britain's defence 'vulnerable to nuclear attack by terrorists' / Warning by
Captain Moore, editor of 'Jane's Fighting Ships'

BYLINE: RODNEY COWTON, Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62223.

LENGTH: 619 words


A warning that Britain's defences are inadequate against unconventional forms of
nuclear attack, possibly by terrorists, is given today by the Editor of Jane's
Fighting Ships.

In his foreword to the 1985-86 edition, Captain John Moore says that, because of
their size and range, nuclear ballistic missiles are rightly considered to
present the greatest danger.


'But there are numerous other devices which present a grave threat to mankind.
Nuclear-headed torpedoes, mines, nuclear-tipped shells, depth bombs and cruise
missiles all come within this category,' he says.

'A number of intelligent students have shown how a simple nuclear device can be
cobbled together at little expense once the fissle material has been brought or
stolen.'

Captain Moore says that in this situation the problems of protection against all
forms of nuclear assault must be addressed. Mines can be laid by merchant ships
and submarines in peacetime, torpedoes can be launched into harbours, submarines
carrying cruise missiles, which can be aimed at any area within some 2,000 miles
of a coastline, can remain on patrol for months.

'These methods are in addition to the placement of devices by surrogates,
terrorists of Soviet Spetsnaz forces which could lie dormant for long periods
during a crisis. The security of any State depends on its ability to detect and
neutralize such methods of attack.'

He says: 'From the naval point of view nuclear deterrence rests on the ballistic
missile submarines, but security against nuclear attack requires continual
surveillance of intruders and vigilance in all waterways and ports. This
includes all forms of anti-submarine and mine detection as well as inspection of
any unscheduled aircraft. The task is immense, the forces available inadequate.'

Captain Moore also challenges Britain's decision to buy the Trident strategic
nuclear missile system instead of placing nuclear cruise missiles on submarines.
He comments on the estimated pounds 9,285 millions cost of Trident, and says:
'Whatever juggling takes place there can be no doubt about two things - the
price will rise and this will have a considerable impact on naval equipment
expenditure'.

He criticizes two arguments used by the Ministry of Defence against employing
cruise missiles for the deterrent. Those are that they would require more
submarines than does Trident, and that, because of the shorter range of cruise
missiles, the submarines would have less searoom in which to avoid detection.

Cruise missiles could be carried in non-nuclear submarines, Captain Moore
argues, which could be built at far less cost than the Royal Navy's new
diesel-powered class, the Type 2400.

The 1,500-mile range credited to cruise missiles would allow a submarine whose
target was Moscow to operate around the Outer Hebrides, in the waters of the
southern Norwegian Sea and the North Sea. 'Anybody who has carried out
operations either in or in pursuit of a submarine in the confused waters that
can be in all these places might suggest that detection and destruction is by no
means easy.'

Captain Moore also gives a warning of the possibly serious consequences of the
continuing run-down of the British merchant fleet. Between 1970 and 1982
Britain's share of the world merchant fleet fell by 50 per cent. From 1982 to
1984 her tanker fleet was reduced by 18 per cent and breakbulk/general cargo
ships by 26 per cent.

'Unless this trend is arrested the British-registered Merchant Navy will be
dissipated completely by 1993 and reliance will have to be placed on foreign or
flag-of-convenience ships.'

Jane's Fighting Ships 1985/86 (published by Jane's Publishing Company: pounds
62.50).

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 27, 1985

McAliskey may be refused compensation / Former mid-Ulster MP injured in
terrorist attack

BYLINE: From PAUL JOHNSON

LENGTH: 485 words

DATELINE: BELFAST


Mrs Bernadette McAliskey, the former mid-Ulster MP Bernadette Devlin, may be
refused government compensation for injuries suffered in a murder attempt at her
home by Protestant paramilitaries four years ago.

The Northern Ireland Office may argue that her claim, which could amount to a
six-figure sum, is invalidated because of convictions imposed in 1970 during
civil rights unrest for incitement to riot, obstruction, and disorderly
behaviour.


Under the Criminal Injuries Order of 1977 compensation is not paid to anyone
convicted of a terrorist offence.

In Mrs McAliskey's case the legal argument will revolve around whether her
convictions constitute terrorist offences and the complication that they came
long before the injuries order was introduced.

A spokesman for the Northern Ireland Office said last night that her application
was being considered. Mrs McAliskey, aged 38, and her husband Michael were
seriously wounded in February 1981 when members of the Ulster Defence
Association attacked their home near Coalisland, Co Tyrone.

She was shot nine times, and her husband was hit four times. Her three children
escaped unhurt.

Mrs McAliskey's life was saved by soldiers who were called to the scene by
undercover members of the security forces who had been watching the house, and
by an army surgeon who carried out emergency operations at a Belfast hospital.

Although she reappeared in public within months as the main spokesman for the
National H Block Committee, it is believed that she has been told that she has
suffered permanent damage and that her physical condition could decline in years
to come.

Mrs McAliskey fought in the Northern Ireland European elections in 1979 and in
two general elections in the Irish Republic in 1982 but is now out of the public
eye in the North.

She won mid-Ulster in a 1969 byelection as a Unity candidate, and became the
youngest woman ever elected to Westminster when she took her seat on her 22nd
birthday. Bernadette Devlin, as she then was, took the House by storm but the
praise soon turned to criticism. She was described by some as an 'Irish Joan of
Arc' but by others as a 'mini-skirted Castro.'

She was involved in the Bogside rioting in Londonderry in 1969 which led to her
convictions and a sentence of six months' imprisonment. A photograph of her
breaking stones for rioters was later used for her political poster.

The next year she served four months in Armagh prison after holding her seat in
the general election. In January 1972 there was a memorable occasion in the
House of Commons when she punched the Home Secretary, Mr Reginald Maudling, in a
row over the events of Bloody Sunday in Londonderry when 13 people were shot
dead by soldiers.

In February 1974 she lost her mid-Ulster seat and later that year helped to
found the Irish Republican Socialist Party, which she has since left.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 23, 1985

Sikh bomb kills bystanders / Two killed by terrorist attack in Indian capital
New Delhi

BYLINE: From AJOY BOSE and ERIC SILVER

LENGTH: 382 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI and CHANDIGARH


Sikh terrorists struck again in New Delhi yesterday, killing three people in a
bomb blast similar to the explosions which killed nearly 100 in Delhi and other
north Indian cities last May.

Police said that the explosion occurred near the Indian capital's old railway
station yesterday morning. A local shanty town dweller, Gulab, found a bag
containing three transistors and tried to switch one on. The transistor, which
turned out to be a bomb, exploded killing Gulab and two bystanders
instantaneously. Another person was reported injured.


Later an army bomb-disposal squad defused the two other transistor bombs, which
are suspected by the police to have been placed by Sikh terrorists. The blast
has raised fears here of a major terrorist offensive to disrupt the Punjab
polling on Wednesday.

Within minutes of the explosion, police tightened security around the residence
of Mr Rajiv Gandhi, the Prime Minister, and the houses of other leading figures.
Barricades were set up at the airport and railway stations, and security guards
carrying stenguns were patrolling the streets.

The attack came barely 24 hours after a major crackdown by the police on
suspected extremists in the capital.

Mr Gandhi's four-day election tour of Punjab ended without incident yesterday,
though his last three meetings in Nawanshahar, Nabha, and Fazilka were
overshadowed by security precautions. He spoke from behind a bullet-proof glass
cage while soldiers of the 'Black Commandos' - the Indian equivalent of the SAS
- surveyed the crowd with lightweight machine guns at the ready.

There seemed to be almost as many police and paramilitary troops as voters at
the Nabha rally. They ringed the open playing field, herding the Congress
supporters through roped walkways into penned enclosures. Everyone was searched
and checked with a metal detector. Even the VIPs were kept at least 30 yards
from the rostrum.

Not surprisingly, the attendance was only about 40,000, much smaller than the
same venue had seen in previous campaigns. Most of those who came were
transported in trucks and tractor trailers from neighbouring villages by the
Congress machine.

Mr Ghandi was at his least inspiring, delivering a by-now familiar mix of high
principle and election bribery.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 26, 1985

Three die in terror attack on yacht / Israelis shot dead in raid on boat at
Larnaca, Cyprus

LENGTH: 309 words

DATELINE: LARNACA


Three gunmen, believed to be Palestinians, seized a yacht at a marina here
yesterday and shot dead three Israelis on board before surrendering to police.

The gunmen stormed the yacht at dawn, shot dead a woman on board and held two
men hostage. They demanded the release of 20 prisoners held in Israel.


Armed police and anti-terrorist units sealed off the marina while officials
negotiated with the gunmen, who surrendered after a nine-hour siege.

Security sources said the two Israeli men had been shot through the back of the
head. The body of the woman killed earlier could be seen hanging over the rail
of the yacht.

One gunman, asked about the hostages as police led him away, shouted to
reporters: 'They have gone to heaven. We are the people everyone forgets and we
die in thousands.'

He added: 'We belong to no organisation, we belong to the Palestinian people.'

Israeli officials said the men were members of the Palestine Liberation
Organisation's elite Force 17 commando unit.

But an official of the PLO office in Nicosia said the three were not PLO
members, adding: 'We condemn terrorist action on Cypriot soil.'

The Cypriot Interior Minister, Mr Constantinos Michaelides, told reporters
before the surrender that the woman was killed in shooting that broke out when
the gunmen seized the yacht.

He identified the Israelis as Mr Reuben Paltzur, 53, his wife Esther, 50, and Mr
Abraham Avnery, 55.

The minister claimed the gunmen had also demanded to see the French and Egyptian
ambassadors and a Red Cross official, and that a plane be made ready for them at
Larnaca airport.

The Egyptian envoy went to the yacht to talk to the gunmen.

He later claimed that the problems were caused by the delayed Israeli response
to the gunmen's demands. The country was celebrating the Yom Kippur holiday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 4, 1985

Terror attack feared as two face charges / Jordanian and Iraqi men charged with
conspiracy to cause explosions in London

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 368 words


A Jordanian and an Iraqi are to appear at a south London court on Monday,
charged with conspiracy to cause explosions. One of the men has lived in Britain
for some time. The other arrived recently from Spain.

Their arrest by Scotland Yard anti-terrorist branch detectives at the weekend,
and the seizure of hand grenades, follows information that Arab terrorists
intend to mount a bombing campaign in London.


One opportunity for such an attack would be the visit to London soon of two
leading members of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. An Anglican bishop,
the Right Reverend Elia Khoury and Mr Mohammed Milhein, a former mayor of
Halhoul, both regarded as moderates and 'peace people,' are part of a PLO
delegation which will meet the Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe.

Details of the visit are being kept secret and the police guard for it has been
increased.

The anti-terrorist branch, C13, has been particularly interested in sympathisers
in Britain of the extremist Arab Revolutionary Socialist Group (ARSG), which is
dedicated to overthrowing the LPO.

The ARSG has attacked British targets in Rome, Bombay, Athens and Madrid. It
first came to notice when it assassinated a British Council representative in
Athens, Mr Kenneth Whitty. It was suspected of murdering Mr Percy Norris, the
British Deputy High Commissioner, in Bombay.

An Arab terrorist attack in Britain during the visit of the two officials would
clearly embarrass Mrs Thatcher, who is seen by the PLO's rivals to be giving it
her tacit support.

Counter - terrorist specialists have monitored an increase in Arab terrorism,
including a hand grenade attack at a crowded Rome restaurant and the
assassination of the crew of a yacht at Larnaca, Cyprus.

This bout of terrorist activity is intended to reap maximum publicity but,
although the Rome and Cyprus attacks were organised by the PLO, the two facing
charges in London have not yet been connected with any group.

Information has been received by the anti-terrorist branch that an attack in
London could also be an ambition of the fanatical Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine, which opposes the PLO for its 'moderate' stance.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 15 1985, Sunday

FBI probes 'Jewish' terror attacks in US

BYLINE: MARK HOSENBALL

GUESTS: WASHINGTON

SECTION: Issue 8419.

LENGTH: 573 words


The FBI has been called in to investigate possible terrorism by militant Jewish
activists after a series of bomb and arson attacks on the offices of a pro-Arab
organisation and the homes of alleged Nazis living in America.

Two men have been killed and two policemen injured in the attacks, which began
last summer. The most recent incident occurred in Washington 10 days ago, when
fire broke out in a building near the White House that was used as the head
office of an influential lobbying group, the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination
Committee. Nobody was hurt, but the committee's office was badly damaged. Fire
investigators say there is little doubt that arson was the cause.


Last August, two policemen were injured, one critically, as they tried to defuse
a bomb left outside the Boston office of the Arab committee. On October 11, the
committee's West Coast director, Alex Odeh, was killed by a bomb as he opened
the door of his office in suburban Los Angeles. The previous day, Odeh had
appeared on television to discuss the hijacking of the Achille Lauro cruise ship
by Palestinian terrorists.

After the Boston bombing, two newspapers received telephone calls from someone
claiming, on behalf of the Jewish Defence League, a militant organisation
founded in New York in 1968 by Rabbi Meir Kahane, responsibility for the
attacks. Kahane is now a controversial member of the Israeli parliament who
wants Israel to expel its Arab residents.

The FBI has announced that it suspects a 'possible link' between the Jewish
Defence League and the Los Angeles bombing. Some investigators say privately
they believe the militant Jewish group may also be linked to bombings at two
East Coast homes.

In August, Elmars Sprogis, a former Latvian police officer, lost his right foot
when he triggered a tripwire attached to a bomb left outside the door of his
Long Island house. In September, Tscherim Soobzokov, who admitted to membership
of Hitler's SS, was killed by a similar device placed outside his home in
Paterson, New Jersey. In both these cases, fires were started outside the
victims' homes, apparently to lure them outside.

James Abourezk, a former American senator who is now chairman of the
American-Arab committee, said that the bomb that killed his California associate
was also triggered by a sophisticated tripwire device. But he said the recent
Washington arson was more 'amateurish' than the other attacks.

The Jewish Defence League has strongly denied any connection with the attacks.
Irv Rubin, the organisation's president, suggested that Arab organisations may
have staged the bombings to win public sympathy. But he added: 'I can't mourn
the death of my enemy. It should happen to all the enemies of the Jewish
people.'

When asked about the incidents by an American radio interviewer, Rabbi Kahane
said that while they were 'stupid,' he could not say they were morally 'a bad
thing' because he regarded the Arab group as a front for the Palestine
Liberation Organisation.

Most other American Jewish organisations have condemned the recent bombings and
have criticised the Jewish Defence League for condoning violence. However, one
splinter group from the league, called the Militant Jewish Defence Organisation,
last week left a recorded message on its New York answering machine offering
free karate and gun training to any American Jews 'interested in defending
themselves'.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 28, 1985

Blood will tell / Possible effects of the terrorist attacks at Rome and Vienna
airports on PLO leader Arafat

BYLINE: From DAVID HIRST

LENGTH: 759 words


The double mayhem at Rome and Vienna airports are yet another of those bloody
exploits which PLO chairman Yasser Arafat, the prime symbol of the Palestinian
cause, and the 'armed struggle' associated with it, can most do without.

For - to use his own terminology - this is not only the kind of 'foreign
operation' - which, physically enacted outside Israel or the occupied
territories - his mainstream leadership outlawed many years ago. It was also
directed against innocent civilians, and whatever the symbolism of the two
Israeli check-in counters, they were mostly non-Israeli civilians at that, and
likely, many of them, to belong to two countries which, through the good offices
of former Chancellor Bruno Kreisky and Italian premier Bettino Craxi, have
perhaps gone furthest in promoting the Palestinian case in Europe.


It has come at the end of a particularly bad year for Arafat. Even if he had
nothing to do with it, it must, like the slaughter aboard the Egyptian airliner
hijacked to Malta last month, rank as another blow to him and all he is
currently trying to achieve.

Earlier blows have been the hijacking of the Achille Laura liner and the murder,
in his wheelchair, of an elderly Jewish passenger; the cancellation of the
London talks between a joint PLO Jordanian delegation and Sir Geoffrey Howe; the
exasperation of his principal Arab peace-seeking partner, King Hussein of
Jordan; and the ever-mounting pressure, exerted by Hussein and other 'moderate'
Arab leaders, to recognise UN Security Council resolution 242, which carries
with it the grave danger that, in making such a retreat from all his
'revolution' once stood for, he would bring his last, loyalist following to the
point of open rebellion.

It also comes at a time when, together with his agonising debate over 242, he is
trying to persuade the world that he has not only renounced 'terrorism' himself,
but is capable of imposing such restraints on all Palestinian factions under his
wing. President Mubarak recently wrung from him the so-called 'Cairo
Declaration' and King Hussein is seeking to pin him down to his now, restrictive
definition of 'legitimate' armed struggle. Arafat is supposed to deliver his
acceptance of this along with acceptance of 242, in the near future.

But Arafat and his mainstream PLO cannot but suffer from this latest act of
Palestinian terrorism, however forcefully they join the chorus of international
outrage. The likelihood is, of course, that he had nothing to do with it, that
it emanates, in some way, from his enemies within the dispersed and ever more
divided ranks of a guerrilla movement which he once held more or less together.

Arafat's most implacable enemy, Abu Nidal, has claimed responsibility.
Apparently now Libyan-backed, he has been a longstanding practitioner of a pure,
unbridled terrorism directed at least as much against the 'treason' of the PLO
as against Israel itself.

He was the most plausible claimant for the Malta hijacking. The Israelis, of
course, are already doing their best to pin the blame on Arafat. The Americans,
now so thoroughly prejudiced against him, would find such a thesis grist to
their mill. And there are others, closer to home, who, openly or
surreptitiously, will derive no little satisfaction from anything that further
discredits him. Even if, on this occasion, he proves invulnerable to charges of
complicity, the massacres cannot but reduce his chances of inserting himself,
for all his growing 'moderation,' into the flagging mideast peace process.

Thanks as much to his own behaviour as the machinations of his rivals and
enemies, Arafat is always apt to be linked, especially in Western minds, with
the exploits of Abu Nidal and his like.

He is still officially wedded to 'armed struggle,' however little chance he has
to practise it.

One key reason why Arafat is unable to renounce armed struggle altogether - and
thereby demonstrably and wholeheartedly dissociate himself from the excesses
perpetrated in its name - is not merely that he is making very little headway in
the diplomatic alternative, but that, in Palestinian eyes, the 'state terrorism'
practised by the Israelis is physically far more devastating than his own, and,
in the light of historical cause and effect, far more reprehensible.

The more atrocious the cycle of Arab-Israeli violence becomes, the further it
seems Arafat will have to go in diplomatic 'moderation' in order to impress the
US Administration, which alone can admit him to the peace process.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 28, 1985

Outraged Israeli leaders swear to exact vengeance / Terrorist attacks on airline
desks at Rome and Vienna airports

BYLINE: From IAN BLACK

LENGTH: 579 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Israel yesterday angrily condemned the twin terrorist attacks on El Al check-in
counters at Rome and Vienna airports and vowed that it would do all it could to
punish those responsible 'in every place and at any time it sees fit.'

The Prime Minister, Mr Shimon Peres, voicing outrage at the attacks, vowed that
Israel 'will fight in every way against terrorists and those who send them.' Mr
Peres's statement, released through Israel Radio, said Israel would 'defend its
citizens' both inside the nation's borders an abroad, appearing to hint broadly
at possible retaliation for the simultaneous attacks.


The Defence Minister, Mr Yitzhak Rabin, said that Israel did not know which
group had carried out the attacks, but said that they must serve as a reminder
that 'the Palestinian terrorist organisations have not given up their attempts
to harm us.' He predicted further attacks over the coming week.

In Jerusalem, the Foreign Ministry said it did not rule out the possibility that
the attacks were the work of the PLO and urged all countries to expel the
organisation's representatives.

The PLO, however, immediately denied responsibility, giving rise to speculation
that the attacks were carried out by one of several dissident Palestinian groups
which believe in unadulterated armed struggle and oppose Mr Yasser Arafat's
leadership of the mainstream guerrilla organisation.

If the PLO denial is true the most likely candidate, according to the past
record, is the Abu Nidal group, a small but wealthy and well organised
rejectionist organisation which has been supported in the past by Iraq and
Syria.

Western intelligence sources believe that Abu Nidal was behind the hijacking of
an Egyptian airliner to Malta in late November. Over 50 passengers were killed
when the plane was stormed by Egyptian commandos.

The choice of locations also points to Abu Nidal. Italy and Austria are the
PLO's staunchest supporters in Europe: any terrorist outrages on their soil can
therefore be expected to damage the status of the PLO and the standing of the
Palestinian cause in those countries.

Mr Arafat came under pressure from Egypt and Jordan to commit the PLO to
restrict the scope of its attacks after the international outcry which followed
the hijacking of the Italian cruise liner, the Achille Lauro, in October.

That hijacking, like the earlier murder of three Israelis in Cyprus, highlighted
the fact that Mr Arafat does not always control his own supporters, since in
both cases - despite official PLO denials - the perpetrators turned out to be
formally identified with the mainstream of the PLO.

Yesterday's PLO denial will not necessarily save it from Israeli retribution. On
October 1, Israeli jets bombed PLO headquarters in Tunisia in retaliation for
the Cyprus killings. In June, 1982, Israel attacked the PLO in Lebanon after the
Abu Nidal group tried to assassinate the Israeli ambassador to London.

The Deputy Prime Minister, Mr David Levy, said yesterday: 'Israel will do its
duty. This organisation will not get away without punishment.

The Foreign Ministry said in a statement: 'Israel is shocked and outraged by
these two new acts of senseless terror against innocent civilians. The terrorist
attacks in Rome and Vienna come against the background of declarations by the
head of the PLO and the states that support this organisation, that these
terrorists will cease terrorist operations outside Israel.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 28 1985, Saturday

Outrages with the Abu Nidal stamp / Terror attacks believed carried out by
radical Palestinian faction

BYLINE: IAN MURRAY

SECTION: Issue 62331.

LENGTH: 409 words


The Palestinian Abu Nidal faction, which is regarded by Israeli intelligence
sources as being most probably responsible for carrying out the attacks on Rome
and Vienna airports, has built up a reputation for particularly ruthless acts
since it split away from the mainstream al-Fatah movement late in 1979 (Ian
Murray writes from Jerusalem).

It is headed by the former Fatah representative in Iraq, Tzabri al-Banna, and he
is believed to have several hundred followers at the moment.


Originally his faction operated from Iraq under the protection of the Iraqi
Government and it attracted supporters of the 'Black June' movement who operated
against Jordanian and Syrian targets at the end of 1976.

Abu Nidal is said to have been responsible for organizing attacks against the
Semiramis and Inter-Continental hotels in Damascus and Amman and the Syrian
embassies in Rome and Pakistan at the end of that year.

In November, 1983, however, Iraq expelled the organization and closed down its
offices except for one in Baghdad, Most of the organization's installations
today are in Syria and Lebanon, with a small infrastructure in Libya.

Among its main attacks since then, several have been directed against airline
offices in Europe. They include: November 25, 1985: Hi-jacking of Egypt Air
airliner from Athens to Malta; September 30, 1985: Bomb at El Al offices in
Amsterdam; August 24, 1985: Jordanian diplomat murdered in Ankara; August 1,
1985: Bomb attack on Madrid office of British Airways and TWA shooting at the
Jordanian Airlines Alia office; April 4, 1985: Two bazookas fired at Alia
airliner at Athens airport; April 3, 1985: Missile fired at Jordanian Embassy in
Rome; March 21, 1985: Grenades thrown at Jordanian airline offices in Cyprus,
Greece and Italy injuring a total of five people; March 9, 1985: Attempt to blow
up Jordanian jet en route from Karachi to Amman; October 9, 1982: Jews in Rome's
central synagogue attacked with grenades and small arms, killing one baby and
injuring 34 others; June 3, 1982: Mr Shlomo Argov, the Israeli Ambassador in
London, seriously wounded by three Abu Nidal terrorists, since sentenced to 30
years imprisonment; August 29, 1981: Two Jews killed and 19 others wounded in an
attack on Vienna synagogue; May 1, 1981: Herr Heinz Neitel, president of
Israel-Austria Friendship League, murdered in Vienna; February 18, 1978: Mr
Yussef el-Sebai, editor of al-Ahram murdered.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 28 1985, Saturday

Terror attacks tarnish PLO's image and Mid-East peace hopes / Political
implications of Palestinian attacks on Rome and Vienna airports

BYLINE: From IAN MURRAY

SECTION: Issue 62331.

LENGTH: 399 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


The attacks on El Al desks at Rome and Vienna airports yesterday have played
straight into Israel's hands as it argues against the inclusion of the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) into the negotiations for peace in the Middle
East.

'There is no doubt that several groups will in the end claim responsibility', a
Foreign Ministry spokesman here said. 'It could well be denied by the PLO in its
attempt to create a moderate image. But we don't believe one word Yassir Arafat
(the PLO leader) says and it is more than probable that the PLO is involved.
They are no less extreme than the others.'


The spokesman said that the attacks showed that appeasement was the wrong policy
in trying to deal with terrorism, although he said he was not referring to the
fact that Italy and Austria have both taken a lenient view of PLO activities in
the past.

Yesterday's attacks come as international pressure has been building on Mr
Arafat to renounce terrorism and to recognize Israel's right to exist. King
Husain of Jordan is said to be insisting on this as a precondition for going on
with his attempts to resolve the Palestinian problem.

The King flies to Damascus on Monday for his first visit there after a decade of
bad relations between the two Arab countries. The Arafat faction of the PLO is
totally rejected by Damascus and the improvement in relations between Jordan and
Syria in recent months is a further sign of the King's growing impatience with
Mr Arafat's refusal to make the necessary pledges.

President Mubarak of Egypt has, in effect, given the PLO leader a two-month
deadline to make up his mind. He said in an interview earlier this week that the
King would go ahead without the PLO at the end of that time if the necessary
commitment was not forthcoming.

The moderate Arab countries are aware that Israel is more disposed to negotiate
with Mr Shimon Peres as Prime Minister than it will be from next October, when
Mr Yitzhak Shamir, the Likud leader, is due to take over the post.

Egypt in recent days has been making an increased effort to settle its many
differences with Israel. The King is also reported to be maintaining secret
contacts with Mr Peres.

So far the stumbling block to any real progress on the Palestinian problem has
been Jordan's need to involve the PLO. The gunmen at the airports could well
have reduced that need.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 28 1985, Saturday

Vienna's morning of horror / Three killed and 40 injured as Palestinian
terrorists attack at Schwechat airport

BYLINE: From RICHARD BASSETT

SECTION: Issue 62331.

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: VIENNA


Three people were killed and about 40 injured in the terrorist attack at
Vienna's Schwechat airport yesterday.

The attack occurred at 9.15am Central European Time, when three heavily armed
terrorists rolled hand-grenades along the floor towards passengers queueing to
check-in for the 10.45am El Al flight to Tel-Aviv.


At least three grenades exploded instantly killing Herr Ekhard Karner, a
fifty-year-old Austrian civil servant travelling with his wife and child. Both
mother and child are reported to be in a critical condition. A second person who
died from grenade wounds was later identified as Mr Eli Gana, an Israeli
citizen.

As the first explosions subsided, the terrorists started indiscriminate fire
with automatic rifles, reported to have been Kalashnikovs. Austrian
anti-terrorist units, known as 'Cobra', which are permanently on duty near the
check-in desks returned the terrorists' fire.

According to eye-witnesses the 100-yard long departure lounge was transformed
into a battle field; screaming passengers running for cover while policemen
fired from behind abandoned pieces of luggage. It is not clear how many of the
wounded were injured in this fierce cross-fire which lasted several minutes.

Despite a hail of automatic fire from Austrian policeman armed with modern
Steyr-Daimler achine pistols, the terrorists were able to escape through
automatic doors into the airport car-park. Inspector Gottfried Mally on patrol
near the eastern entrance of the car-park opened fire with a browning automatic,
injuring one of the terrorists.

As more and more units of 'Cobra' arrived, the terrorists appeared to run out of
ammunition and threatened the owner of a Mercedes with a knife. He managed to
escape but the three drove off in his car.

During a car chase of 10 to 12 minutes, another grenade was hurled at the
pursuing police vehicles. The police opened fire and shattered the rear
windscreen of the mercedes near the village of Fischamend, five miles east of
the airport. A few minutes later the car was immobilises by police fire. One of
the terrorists was unconscious and later died from his wounds. Another is
severely injured and unconscious; the third gave himself up and is still under
interrogating. According to a police spokesman, he is claiming Lebanese
nationality.

The police have not disclosed his identity or nationality yet but a spokesman
said that like the dead terrorist he was Middle-Eastern in appearance.

Ambulances took the airport injured to various Vienna hospitals. The departure
lounge, its Christmas trees gruesomely splattered with blood remained closed
until midday while police began a thorough search of the building for possible
accomplices. An unexploded grenade was defused by military experts.

At an airport press conference Dr Franz Kafer, spokesman for the police, said a
number of his men had been injured during the exchange of fire. He denied the
Vienna airport was less well guarded than others.

Schwechat airport usually is exceptionally well guarded with armed policemen
from the elite 'Cobra' force on duty at all entrances. But visitors to the
airport earlier this week at the height of the Christmas festivities said there
seemed to be fewer policemen than usual.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 30, 1985

Rome attackers 'all trained in Iran' / Allegation by secret service chief over
airport terrorist attack

BYLINE: From GEORGE ARMSTRONG

LENGTH: 326 words

DATELINE: ROME


The head of Italy's external secret service, Admiral Fulvio Martini, said at the
weekend that the four Arab terrorists in the Rome airport attack had all been
trained in Iran. The point of departure for their mission was Damascus.

Admiral Martini claimed, according to the Republica newspaper, that his
organisation had foreseen the attack three days before the CIA did. He expected
something similar to occur in the next few days. He did not accept the
suggestion that the group was headed by Abu Nidal.


However, police in both Rome and Vienna believe the attacks are linked to the
Abu Nidal group.

Comments by Austrian police appeared to dispel initial confusion which arose
when the guerrillas who survived appeared to have claimed membership of Fatah,
the main group within the PLO. An Austrian security police spokesman said the
Abu Nidal group also used the name Fatah.

All four terrorists had fake Moroccan passports and all carried a political
testament which said: 'As you have violated our land, our honour, and our
people, we in turn shall violate all that is yours, including your children. Our
tears shed shall be transformed into your shed blood. The war has begun.' The
signature was The Palestinian Martyrs.

From LIZ NASH

VIENNA - There remained uncertainty in Vienna last night about claim that the
three terrorists who attacked Vienna airport on Friday were members of the PLO's
mainstream Fatah organisation.

One of the two surviving gunmen, who said he was Abdel Aziz Merzoughi, told an
American television reporter from his hospital bed that he belonged to Fatah.
But the reporter later said the man spoke only broken English and he was not
certain that Merzoughi had understood all the questions.

Merzoughi said he came from Lebanon and that he was a Palestinian. Asked where
he had got his instructions from, he replied: 'I am from Fatah.' Asked if they
were all from Fatah he replied 'Fatah.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 30, 1985

Israeli revenge faces logistic problems / Possible reprisals for terrorist
attacks at Rome and Vienna airports

BYLINE: From IAN BLACK

LENGTH: 678 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Israel's determination to strike back at the terrorists responsible for Friday's
attack on Rome and Vienna airports may be frustrated by the organisation of the
Abu Nidal group, believed to have carried out the raid.

Of all the Palestinian organisations, Abu Nidal is the most diffuse and best
organised with the advantage of having no large or easily identifiable premises
that can be hit from the air.


Nevertheless, the Israeli Defence Minister, Mr Yitzhak Rabin, warned yesterday
that Israel will do its utmost to strike back.

Addressing a meeting of American Jewish fund-raisers in Jerusalem, Mr Rabin said
that Israel would never accept such attacks and would do all it can to combat
both the perpetrators and the countries supporting them.

'We will do what must be done to reduce these acts of terrorism and to inflict
the maximum damage on the leaders of terror organisations, those who organise
and those who carry out terrorism,' he said.

Mr Rabin refused to confirm that the twin attacks had been carried out by the
dissident Abu Nidal group, even though it claimed responsibility on Friday and
the one surviving terrorist told investigators in Rome that he was indeed a
member of the group.

Reports that the terrorists who operated in the Italian capital had arrived
there from Damascus gave further credence to the conviction that the men
answered to Abu Nidal, who enjoys considerable financial and logistic support
from the Syrian Government. The group has offices in both Damascus and the
Libyan capital, Tripoli.

If Israel does decide to try and punish this specific group, the most likely
form of retaliation would have to be by some form of covert operation, possibly
involving the assassination of individual leaders. Israel's Mossad intelligence
service follows the group's activities very closely and officials here were
insisting months ago that despite reports of his death from a heart attack, Abu
Nidal was alive and well.

The other possibility, which may explain Mr Rabin's reticence about pinning the
blame squarely on Abu Nidal, is that there will be a spectacular attack on the
PLO, like October's aid raid on its headquarters in Tunisia.

The mainstream Palestinian organisation has denied responsibility for the Rome
and Vienna incidents. The defence minister said in an American television
interview last night that the PLO and Abu Nidal were simply competing with each
other to see which could inflict greater damage on Israel.

Intelligence and politics, in this context, are two quite distinct animals. When
Mossad reported that it was Abu Nidal. and not the PLO that tried to kill
Israel's ambassador in London in 1982, the government decided to attack the PLO
in Lebanon.

Newspapers here warned yesterday against repeating the same mistake. 'The
efficacy of the Israeli response is contingent on the punishment of those
directly responsible,' the pro-Labour party newspaper, Davar, said in its
editorial.

All Israeli newspapers carried blanket coverage of the airport attacks, and gave
prominence to reports that the scale of the carnage had been reduced by the
speedy reaction of the El Al security men on the spot.

'Were it not for the swift and courageous reaction of EI Al's Israeli security
guards, the massacre would have been far worse,' the Jerusalem Post said. 'This
proves that proper precautions by all concerned could go a long way in
preventing such terror acts, or at least cut them down to a minimum.'

In Tripoli yesterday, the Libyan Government hailed the two attacks as 'heroic,'
claiming those who condemned them have forgotten the Palestinian blood which had
been spilled.

The Libyan news agency, Jana, in its first comment on Friday's airport attacks
that left 18 people dead and more than 120 injured, called them 'brave actions
by the sons of Palestinian martyrs of the Sabra and Chatilla' refugee camps in
Beirut.

In the US, President Reagan called on Israel and Arab Governments to show
restraint at 'a time of extreme tension' in the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 30 1985, Monday

Leading Article: After the massacres / Israel's likely response to Rome and
Vienna airport terror attacks

SECTION: Issue 62332.

LENGTH: 887 words


The terrorist attacks at Vienna and Rome last week were unforgiveable. Once more
the innocents have been massacred in a cycle of revenge in which they had no
part. No cause is worth that, and the men who planned these crimes must be
hunted down and brought to account, however long it takes and wherever they may
be.

That the successful prosecution of this aim would bring such acts of barbarism
to an end is clearly too much to hope for. In the parlance of terrorism last
week's victims represented 'soft' targets, too vulnerable to be guaranteed the
100 per cent protection they deserved. Countries can and must do more to make
life difficult for the gunmen. But even armour has chinks which the fanatic will
from time to time find and pierce.


The world now awaits an Israeli reprisal perhaps on the scale of the Tunis raid
which followed the killings at Larnaca in the autumn. But if and when it comes,
against whom should it be? Against Abu Nidal's headquarters in Libya, against
the Palestine Liberation Organization's bases in Jordan, against the 'Martyrs of
Palestine' wherever they may be, or against other Arab targets such as the
Syrian missile emplacements in the Bekaa Valley? Israeli intelligence is more
capable than most of identifying those immediately responsible. But the
divisions and sub-divisions of the Palestine terrorist movement are becoming
increasingly hard to isolate and locate.

The denial of complicity and condemnation of those responsible by Yassir Arafat
and his official PLO leadership has been treated cynically in Jerusalem.
Arafat's credibility in a broader sense has become questionable. Either he is a
wolf in sheep's clothing who needs to bare his teeth from time to time to
satisfy bloodthirsty critics within his movement, or he has already lost control
of the latter and is unaware of what they perpetrate in his name. The word
'fatah' uttered during interrogation of one of the terrorists who survived
should not be accepted too easily as evidence of Arafat's involvement since the
appearance of broadening of their base must be an aim of the extremist cells.

That the Israeli Defence Forces are capable of exacting a heavy price from the
Palestinian movement for the atrocities last Friday is beyond all doubt. Whether
they are able to be specific in their targeting of those who are responsible is
much more questionable. And a less than surgical act of reprisal would provoke a
predictable display of moral outrage from the Eastern bloc and the Third World -
which would, almost with relief, quickly forget the originating horrors of last
week.

More seriously it would further undermine the position of Yassir Arafat and
those around him, who, whatever their antecedents, have recently striven to make
progress by diplomatic means. Either it would force them to become more
belligerent themselves or it would widen the split (if a split exists) between
them and the extremist wings of their movement.

There are those in Jerusalem who will say that this would not matter - that the
security of Israel must rest upon firmer ground than the posturing and
prevarication of a leader who cannot even control his own destiny let alone
anyone else's. Through its own weakness the PLO leadership has difficulties even
acknowledging Israel's right to exist - a sine qua non of any peace talks.
Weapons and words are the movement's only currency.

But if Arafat's authority is further diminished, Israel is likely to face not a
divided PLO - which it can conquer - but a movement reunited in new militancy.
Abu Nidal and others might not be able to mount total war against Israel of a
kind the Martyrs of Palestine speak of. But they are still more unlikely to
approve the peace which Israel requires and to which its younger generation
aspires. The way forward must be by negotiation, at some stage. Whether the PLO
is involved in that negotiation or not, its total opposition would put the end
result in some doubt.

That the White House shares these perceptions is indicated by President Reagan's
message to Shimon Peres in which he urged that 'shocked and saddened' as he was,
the peace process in the region should not be jeopardized. For a President even
to countenance such an obvious warning to Jerusalem requires some political
courage amid all the pressures in the United States at a time when yet again
Americans abroad have been victimized. But the American government has invested
a lot of diplomatic effort in the peace process and is only too aware of its
fragility.

Moreover if progress is to be made then the time to do so is now while Shimon
Peres is in charge. In the autumn he is due to hand over the reins to the less
flexible Mr Shamir - or whoever else the Likud party chooses. Indeed the
overriding question now is how well Mr Peres can resist pressure from his right
to retaliate swiftly. A number of Arab leaders, notably King Husain and
President Mubarak, might understand if Israel does respond with force. But they
would find it more difficult to pursue the peace process with the necessary
speed - certainly if, say, Jordanian territory were violated.

Last week's crimes were terrible. But they must not be followed by the
extinction of what little momentum the process of Middle-East peacemaking has
now attained.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 30 1985, Monday

Italians expect new onslaught soon / More Palestinian terror attacks thought
likely

BYLINE: From JOHN EARLE

SECTION: Issue 62332.

LENGTH: 434 words

DATELINE: ROME


Admiral Fulvio Martini, head of Italian counter-intelligence, gave a warning
yesterday that the Palestinian terrorist organization which attacked Leonardo da
Vinci airport at Fiumicino on Friday causing 15 deaths was likely to strike
again soon, probably outside Italy.

'I don't think that the next raid will be launched against Italy,' he told the
Rome newspaper La Repubblica, in an interview. 'A few days will pass, but not
too many.'


The admiral said that three days before American intelligence knew of the plot,
the Italians had obtained a list of four airports at which a terrorist attack
had been considered. These were Rome, Nicosia, Athens and Madrid, but not
Vienna.

Signor Oscar Scalfaro, Minister of the Interior, told an Italian Senate
commission two days ago that intelligence of a plot was received on December 18.

Admiral Martini said that the Rome attackers, believed to be from the Abu Nidal
group, had been trained in Iran and travelled via Damascus.

Actions of this nature were intended to prevent any convergence between King
Husain of Jordan, the Israeli Prime Minister, Mr Shimon Peres, and the Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO) leader, Mr Yassir Arafat. Mr Arafat now controlled
only 30 per cent of his organization. 'All the rest have escaped him, or even
act against him.'

More bloodshed has also been promised in a handwritten leaflet signed by 'The
Martyrs of Palestine' and found in the pocket of the sole survivor of the four
terrorists, Muhammad Sharam, who says he was born 19 years ago in a Palestinian
refugee camp in Beirut. He is under interrogation in hospital by an
investigating magistrate.

The leaflet, after referring to the Israeli air raid in the autumn on the PLO
headquarters in Tunis, said: 'The tears which we have shed will be repaid with
blood, a river of blood. The war has begun from this moment.'

The four members of the group had forged Moroccan passports, believed by police
to have come from an office in Beirut which has supplied them since 1983 to
Arabs picked up in places as far apart as Portugal, Athens, Trieste, Madrid and
Malta. The names of the group's members are being treated as false.

The Rome area is being combed for a terrorist base and back-up organization
which is thought to have given the gang their Kalashnikov machineguns and 14
hand grenades - of which they only had time to throw three - just before the
attack. On two previous occasions gunmen who attacked the British Airways office
in Rome and the Cafe de Paris in the Via Veneto were handed their arms
immediately before.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 30 1985, Monday

Israel prepares to wreak revenge as more raids feared / Response to Palestinian
terror attacks on Rome and Vienna airports

BYLINE: From IAN MURRAY

SECTION: Issue 62332.

LENGTH: 770 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


The Israeli Cabinet was briefed yesterday on evidence so far gathered on those
responsible for last week's terrorist attacks on airports in Rome and Vienna.
The order for retaliatory action is expected to be given as soon as the Cabinet
is satisfied that it has positively identified the attackers. The terrorist
group behind the attacks is likely to strike again soon, probably outside Italy,
Admiral Fulvio Martini, head of Italian counter-intelligence, said. The two
surviving suspects from the terrorist attack on Schwechat Airport in Vienna are
to stand trial for murder, an Interior Ministry spokesman said.

Israel is carefully preparing retaliation for Friday's terrorist attacks on
airports in Rome and Vienna.


The Cabinet yesterday heard a progress intelligence report on the evidence so
far collected on who was responsible for the attacks. Once those concerned have
been positively identified to the Cabinet's satisfaction, the order to punish
them will be given.

Specifics of what was discussed were kept secret. But Lt-Gen Moshe Levy, the
Army Chief of Staff, and Maj-Gen Amos Lapidot, head of the air force, were seen
going in and out of the building during the meetings. General Lapidot carried
what appeared to be maps.

There is a general consensus that the war against terrorist acts must be
continued and that tough retaliation is the only responsible answer to them. The
Cabinet heard President Reagan's message to Mr Shimon-Peres, the Prime Minister,
expressing his condolences about the two attacks. The message was not seen as an
appeal for restraint so much as a warning against retaliating against the wrong
targets.

The message said, in part: 'These vicious murders .. are another example of the
evil of terrorism that we must all work to eliminate. Such acts must be
condemned and their perpetrators brought to justice.

'Furthermore, we must not allow terrorists to deter us from pursuing our larger
goal of a lasting peace.'

According to a very senior source in Jerusalem yesterday, the Government does
not consider that correct retaliation in any way weakens the peace process.

'When you have extremists and you know where they are, they ought not to be left
unpunished,' he said. 'Weakness more than firm action harms the peace process.'

The source agreed that every act of terrorism did achieve its purpose of
disrupting the peace process. 'But it is not weakening our determination to
pursue peace and weaken those elements who thrive on violence,' he said.

There was no question of needing a green light from Washington before
retaliating. 'We don't need green lights or red lights,' he said. 'We will act
according to the facts and our needs.'

Israel has in the past retaliated indiscriminately after terrorist acts, as it
did in 1982 after the attempted assassination of the former Israeli Ambassador
in London, Mr Shlomo Argov. But Mr Peres considers this kind of action is
counter-productive because it arouses world anger and does not limit the
activities of those who perpetrate acts of terrorism.

This is why he authorized the raid on the Palestine Liberation Organization HQ
in Tunis in October, which knocked out the offices of the organization with
surgical precision.

Pinpointing the groups involved, however, needs difficult and dangerous
intelligence work, while military action can have hazardous political fallout.

If the Abu Nidal group is found to have been responsible for Friday's attacks,
retaliation will be particularly difficult since the group operates mainly from
Syria, Lebanon, and Libya. An airborne attack on Syria or Lebanon would be
particularly dangerous now that SAM ground to air missiles have been deployed by
Syria, and such a raid could even escalate into a full-scale war.

An attack on Libya, given Colonel Gadaffi's unpredictability, could also have
unforeseen consequences.

According to the senior source, the PLO could not definitely be ruled out as
being responsible for the raid, Its chairman, Mr Yassir Arafat, was still
hesitating about making the required declaration to King Hussain of Jordan on
renouncing terrorism and recognizing Israel's right to exist, and the source
believed the King's visit to Damascus today would put further pressure on him to
make up his mind. 'The King is definitely calling Arafat's bluff,' he said.
'That is a positive development.

As to the new peace treaty agreed in Lebanon, the source said this would be good
for Israel if it meant a decrease in terrorism. But at the same time Israel
wanted to see Syria pull its troops out of Lebanon.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 31, 1985

Gadafy supported raids on airports, says US / Terrorist attacks at Rome and
Vienna

BYLINE: From MICHAEL WHITE, IAN BLACK, and LIZ NASH

LENGTH: 810 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Reagan Administration last night pointed the finger at Colonel Gadafy of
Libya, as a 'considerable' backer of the Abu Nidal Palestinian terrorist group,
suspected of this week's airport attacks and urged concerted international
pressure against him.

The White House spokesman, Mr Larry Speakes, also denounced Libya and said that
the United States is prepared to work with other governments to take action
against the country.


Mr Speakes, in Palm Springs where President Reagan is on holiday, refused to
disclose what steps might be contemplated but said military action 'is always an
option' in 'combating terrorism.

Asked if the administration regarded the Libyan regime as responsible for the
attacks in Rome and Vienna in which 18 people were killed, Mr Speakes said,' We
can't be that specific.'

He added however that 'all evidence is pointing to' a radical Palestinian
splinter group headed by Abu Nidal, who was believed to be in Libya. Mr Speakes
said the Libyan Government provides him with financial assistance and an
opperating base.

In an abrupt departure from the Reagan Administrations initial reaction, urging
Israel and other governments to exercise restraint, Mr Speakes said: 'Our policy
is that you seek out those responsible and .. have at it, go at them.'

'If we can find who they are, or if another nation can find who they are and
they attack them, wipe them out, that's fine with us.'

He said the US policy was balanced, urging restraint to avoid retaliation
against innocent people or action that could disrupt the Middle East peace
process, while reserving the right for the US or other governments to seek out,
identify and punish terrorists, wherever they may hide.

Evidence that Libya had been involved was added in Tunis yesterday, when a
senior interior ministry official said that the Tunisian passports used by the
terrorists had all been previously lost in Libya. Two of the three were
confiscated by Libyan authorities in August and September.

In Tel Aviv, the Israeli Defence Minister, Mr Yitzhak Rabin, refused to discuss
speculation that Libya would be the target for Israeli retribution, but said
that Arab countries which permit Palestinian bases on their soil were
endangering themselves.

'We of course have to find out who are the bodies behind these attacks and how
they can be found. Then we will act,' he said.

In Vienna, the Austrian Interior Minister, Mr Karl Blecha, said that authorities
were convinced that the Abu Nidal group had been responsible for the raids.

He said the gunmen planned to follow up the attack by seizing Israeli hostages
and forcing a waiting El Al aircraft to take them out of the country.

'This was no suicide commando mission, their goal was to take hostages,' Mr
Blecha said.

This was confirmed in Rome where police said the surviving terrorist had also
admitted his group had intended to take hostages and commandeer a plane.

Mohammed Sarham said they would have forced it to fly to Israel and possibly
crash at Tel Aviv.

Meanwhile, Mr Rabin told high school students near Tel Aviv that Israel would
not act according to 'the usual international rules' in its struggle against
Palestinian violence. He recalled that Israel has recently captured a guerrilla
ship 200 miles away from the coast.

Mr Rabin and other Israeli leaders insisted yesterday that the US had not urged
restraint in response to the airport attacks.

The defence minister, the Prime Minister, Mr Shimon Peres, and the Foreign
Minister, Mr Yitzhak Shamir, all said that Israel and the US see eye to eye on
the question of combating terrorism. Earlier reports suggested that Washington
was warning Jerusalem not to overreact.

It remained unclear however, whether the retaliation being contemplated would
against the Abu Nidal group, against Mr Yasser Arafat's mainstream PLO, which
has denied any involvement, or against Libya.

Mr Rabin, perhaps deliberately was vague when discussing the subject yesterday,
but he again pointedly referred to the PLO in the same breath as the Rome and
Vienna outrages.

He had no doubt, he said, that the October 1 Israeli air strike against PLO
headquarters in Tunisia, had forced the Jordanian government to restrict the
activities of the guerrilla organisation on its soil, for fear of being subject
to similar Israeli reprisals.

'We wanted to hit their main HQ but also to tell the PLO: 'we can find you
wherever you are',' Mr Rabin said. 'Countries which host PLO bases are
endangering themselves. There is no immunity for PLO bases and we will operate
against them when and where we see fit.'

Members of the Knesset's Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, yesterday heard
a detailed report on the airport attacks. Most MPs said they favoured some form
of retaliation against the Abu Nidal.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 31 1985, Tuesday

Washington backs Israeli retaliation against terrorists / Response to Rome and
Vienna airport attacks

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER THOMAS

SECTION: Issue 62333.

LENGTH: 276 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The Reagan Administration, declaring that 'Terrorism cannot go unanswered,'
yesterday left the door open for Israel to launch a retaliatory strike for the
airport attacks in Vienna and Rome on Friday.

'United States policy is that if you can find terrorists and seek them out and
hit those responsible for it, go at it, go to it,' the White House said.


A toughly-worded statement by the State Department accused Libya of aiding Abu
Nidal, the renegade Palestinian terrorist leader suspected of masterminding the
attacks, adding; 'We believe Gadaffi, has given Abu Nidal and his group a
considerable amount of financing and assistance.' Mr Larry speaks, the White
House Spokesman, said the Administration 'favours retaliation against
terrorists'.

He insisted that as a general response to terrorism, 'the military option is one
that we have always retained.' He emphasized the administration's agreement with
a statement by Mr Bettino Craxi, the Italian Prime Minister, that stated which
protected and armed terrorists bear responsibility for the attacks'.

Significantly, Mr Speakes remarked: 'I would have no comment on the details
  .. on any sort of contingency plans.' He added: 'We have always retained
 the right to respond to terrorist acts in an appropriate, measured, focused
 way, and other victimized states have a similar right.'

 He announced the US was opening new consultations with United Nations member
countries on a fresh attempt to isolate further Colonel Gadaffi and to seek
tighter security controls, improved intelligence gathering and sharing, and to
increase economic and diplomatic pressures.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1985 Times Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 2, 1986

Austrians search for fourth man / Investigation of Vienna airport terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: From LIZ NASH

LENGTH: 162 words

DATELINE: VIENNA


Austrian police are convinced a fourth man was involved in Friday's terrorist
attack on Vienna airport, and that he is still at large, a spokesman said
yesterday.

'From our investigations we conclude there was certainly a fourth man,' an
interior ministry spokesman said, 'but we do not know his name or where he
stayed, or whether he is still in Austria.'


Evidence was provided by Italian police officials who held discussions with
Austrian police in Vienna earlier this week. 'The Italian police told us the
surviving terrorists in Italy had spoken of four people of the same group being
involved in the Vienna attack, the spokesman said.

Police also say a witness saw a fourth man talking to the others in Vienna some
time before the attack. 'We are treating this as reliable evidence' he said.

It is not thought that the fourth man actually took part in the airport attack.
'We think he possibly stayed in Vienna as an organiser or link man.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 2, 1986

Gadafy 'a criminal' / Israeli Premier Peres links Libyan leader to Rome and
Vienna terrorist attacks

BYLINE: From IAN BLACK

LENGTH: 377 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


The Israeli Prime Minister, Mr Shimon Peres, yesterday attacked Libya for
serving as a base for terrorism, but said that the world should examine its
attitude of 'forgiveness' towards Colonel Gadafy before proposing military
action against him.

Meanwhile in Tripoli Colonel Gadafy warned that any attack on Libya would cause
it to 'declare war in the Mediterranean sea and in all the Middle East.'


In a press conference shown on French television he accused President Reagan and
the Israelis of 'leading the world to war.'

'If an aggression was committed against Libya it would be the beginning of the
end,' Colonel Gadafy said.

Mr Peres told the Knesset in a formal political statement that the main strength
of the Abu Nidal group, the dissident Palestinian organisation said to be
responsible for last Friday's simultaneous terrorist attacks at Rome and Vienna
airports, was now in Libya.

'Libya under Gadafy's leadership is not a state in which crime exists, but a
state that deals in crime,' the Israeli leader said. 'From Libya come people
carrying pistols with silencers and to it return people who have committed
cold-blooded murder.

'There are those who propose a military operation against Libya. However, before
one speaks of military operations some simple questions have to be asked: Why is
Libya treated with a measure of forgiveness? If the countries abetting murder
are not struck at, the war against terrorism will never be won,' he said.

The Abu Nidal group, Mr Peres said, was the 'offspring' of the PLO. He
criticised the conventional distinction between moderates and extremists amongst
the various Palestinian guerrilla organisations.

'As for the international atmosphere, it is essential that it be freed of a
measure of forgiveness and light-mindedness vis-a-vis the terrorist
organisations,' he said. 'The chief terrorist organisation, the PLO, has for
some years been the beneficiary of assumptions which have no basis in reality.'

'One assumption said that the PLO was about to change any day, and be
transformed from a violent organisation into a political one.'

'On the basis of that mistaken assumption, the PLO was permitted to set up
representations in many places around the world.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 4, 1986

Germans reject Libya sanctions / Evidence sought on alleged Tripoli link to Rome
and Vienna terrorist attacks

BYLINE: From ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 516 words

DATELINE: BONN


The Government yesterday pledged its support for closer European cooperation
against international terrorism but rejected American calls for economic
sanctions against Libya.

A government spokesman said that Bonn stuck to the principle that economic
sanctions were 'inappropriate,' but added that in liaison with its West European
allies measures against Libya would be considered if evidence should grow that
the Arab state supported the recent guerrilla attacks at Rome and Vienna
airports.


'The Federal Government has learned that there is evidence of support for the
terrorist attacks which points to the government of a third country. If these
firm clues should harden still further, the Government will then co-ordinate
joint measures with its European partners,' the spokesman said.

An Interior Ministry official said that West German security authorities
received 'vague hints' in early December that 'something could happen at
airports in Western Europe.' The threats had not been directed at West Germany,
but had been discussed at a meeting in December of Common Market security
experts.

Chiefly out of economic interests, Bonn has always rejected sanctions against
Libya and other countries in the past, but West Germany may now be prepared to
penalise Tripoli by cutting air services between the two countries and
toughening entry regulations for Libyans.

Some 1,500 West Germans work in Libya, West Germany's third biggest oil supplier
after Britain and Nigeria. Libya is one of the biggest importers of German
goods, mostly machinery, electrical equipment and lorries.

From LIZ NASH

VIENNA - Austria's Middle East policy is being scrutinised after the recent
terrorist attacks on Vienna airport.

'We will not, of course, allow criminal acts like the airport attack to change
the basic principles of our Middle East policy,' Chancellor Fred Sinowatz said
yesterday, adding that 'we will take steps against anyone responsible for such
terrorist acts or lending them support.'

This is the first hint of a possible change in the country's Middle East policy
forged by the former Chancellor, Dr Bruno Kreisky, who established close links
with Arab states and with the PLO. Dr Kreisky was the first western leader to
recognise the importance of bringing the PLO into Middle East Peace talks with
Israel and he received the PLO leader, Mr Yasser Arafat, in 1979.

Such moves opened up commercial opportunities, and Austrian companies invested
heavily throughout the Middle East.

When Chancellor Sinowatz succeeded Dr Kreisky in 1983 the policy was conducted
with less fanfare but remained essentially unchanged. Last summer, Dr Sinowatz
described his country's relations with the arabs as 'excellent' and reiterated
Austria's recognition of the PLO

An opposition People's Party spokesman, Dr Steiner, calling for a change in
policy said recently: 'It is naive to think it is enough to condemn terrorism
verbally while turning a blind eye to certain regimes and groups as a form of
insurance that Austria will be spared such crimes.'

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 4, 1986

US increases pressure on Libya as ship sails for Mediterranean / Renewed call
for Allied economic sanctions following Rome and Vienna terrorist attacks

BYLINE: From ALEX BRUMMER

LENGTH: 589 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


The United States was last night moving to step up the economic and military
pressure on Libya, with renewed calls on the Allies to join it in economic
sanctions, as an American carrier group left Naples for the Mediterranean.

The Pentagon said that the carrier, Coral Sea, which has been in port in Naples,
was being moved back to the Mediterranean. It was also reported that other US
vessels were steaming towards the Libyan coast in preparation for any military
operations which might be approved by President Reagan.


The US currently has 15 combat vessels in the Mediterranean which form part of a
fleet of some 25 ships in the region.

The State Department, which has been at the forefront of the calls for tough
retaliation against terrorists, is said to favour increased intelligence and
communications surveillance of Libyan territory as a preliminary to any action.

The Libyans meanwhile, have sent a letter to the United Nations denying any part
in the attacks on Rome and Vienna which they described as 'deplorable blood
outrages.' Immediately following the attacks, the official Libyan news agency,
Jana, had praised the terrorists as heroes.

Yesterday, the Foreign Minister, Mr Ali al-Tureiki, in his letter to the UN
Secretary-General, Javier Perez de Cuellar; said he hoped the UN would take
appropriate measures to see that peace and security in the region were not
endangered.

Among the options being actively discussed by the Americans are to move a
satellite into position over the country, reconnaissance flights by seaborne
Awacs early warning radar planes and eavesdropping by communications ships. Such
tactics paid dividends after the Archille Lauro hijacking when the US was able
to intercept an Egypt Air plane carrying terrorists.

On the diplomatic front, the US is renewing its efforts to persuade the Allies
to join it in economic sanctions. The State Department, apparently rejecting
West German reservations about sanctions, said last night that it was necessary
for 'the international community to stand up and take some action.'

European diplomats in Washington say that as yet no formal approaches have been
made by the Administration. However, State Department officials said that the US
was in close consultation with several governments on policy towards Libya. They
pointed to the success of the US in reducing its trade with Libya since
President Reagan imposed sanctions.

In Bonn, however, the West German Government again said it was opposed to
economic sanctions against Libya. A spokesman said they were believed to be
'inappropriate.'

American exports to Libya had been slashed from a peak of dollars 860 million in
1979 to around dollars 200 millions last year. The ban on oil imports had cut
back Libyan sales to the US from dollars 9 billion to dollars 5 billion. It was
noted here that with the current oil glut there was no real justification for
West Germany, Italy and other countries to be so dependent on Libyan energy
supplies.

US military options against Libya are severely limited by the continued presence
of an estimated 1,500 Americans in the country who are there despite State
Department restrictions on travel to the country.

It explained yesterday however that a 'sizeable proportion' of the Americans in
Libya may well be dependants or relations of Libyan nationals. This means that
they would not be in conflict with American law which provides for penalties of
up to dollars 20,000 in fines and five years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 24, 1986, Friday

Italy asks the world to help catch Abu Nidal / Rome airport terrorist attack
(189) /SCT

BYLINE: JOHN EARLE

LENGTH: 188 words


The public prosecutor here issued an international arrest warrant yesterday for
Abu Nidal, leader of Palestine Liberation Organization splinter group, on a
charge of causing a massacre in the Rome airport attack of December 27 in which
14 people died (John Earle writes).

The warrant was signed by Signor Domenico Sica, the investigating magistrate,
who has interrogated the sole survivor of the four Palestinian gunmen.

Palestinian guerrilla acts and Libya's suspected support for them were discussed
at a meeting of the inner Cabinet.

Signor Bettino Craxi, the Prime Minister, reported on talks he had in Palermo on
Tuesday with the Maltese Prime Minister, Dr Carmelo Mifsud Bonnici, who had
recently seen the Libyan leader, Colonel Gadaffi, in Tripoli.

Mifsud Bonnici is said to have put forward a three-point Maltese proposal for
reducing tension in the Mediterranean. States would pledge not to give any
support or cover to terrorist groups; would not use military force against other
states in the region; and would not allow existing military bases to be used
against other states in the region.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 7, 1986

Security alert at French stations / Series of terrorist attacks hit France

BYLINE: From CAMPBELL PAGE

LENGTH: 407 words

DATELINE: PARIS


After three bomb explosions in central Paris this week the Government yesterday
announced increased security at railway stations, airports, and on the
underground as the half-term holidays approached and many Parisians prepared to
leave for skiing resorts.

The Prime Minister, Mr Laurent Fabius, said it would be disgraceful if the wave
of terrorism were to be exploited politically, but the opposition, deep in the
campaign for the parliamentary elections on March 16, has already begun to maul
the Government.


Mr Charles Pasqua, leader of the neo-Gaullist RPR group in the Senate, accused
the Socialist Government and the Interior Minister, Mr Pierre Joxe, of
incompetence and of 'excessive indulgence' towards terrorists.

He said this was reflected in the amnesty for members of Action Directe and in
the presence of members of the Italian Red Brigades in France.

Mr Jacques Chirac, president of the RPR, mayor of Paris, and a possible prime
minister after the parliamentary elections, reminded the Government of the need
to conduct a merciless campaign against terrorism and end the excessive impunity
enjoyed by those committing terrorist crimes. The leader of the extreme
rightwing National Front, Mr Jean-Marie Le Pen, attacked the Government for
being soft on terrorism.

Mr Fabius and Mr Joxe saw President Mitterrand yesterday before joining the
Ministers of Justice, Defence and Foreign Affairs at a special meeting to
discuss terrorist attacks and problems of law and order. Mr Joxe said later in a
television interview that he would be visiting railway stations and airports to
check on security and said the Government was afraid that mainline stations
might be a target.

There is still speculation that the attacks may be linked to the Middle East
where four French citizens are being held hostage in Lebanon.

However, the Prime Minister said yesterday that no one had made a convincing
claim of responsibility for the explosions. Some trails seemed to lead towards
the Middle East but nothing was certain.

Apparently the bombs used this week were all of different types. Although the
timing of the attacks suggests that a single group is at work, even that may be
a wrong assumption.

In this week's attacks 19 people have been injured, nine of them seriously.

A fourth bomb, which would have caused serious damage to the Eiffel Tower, was
found in time and dismantled on Monday night.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 13, 1986

Arrests follow Paris bombings / Raids follow terrorist attacks in France

BYLINE: From PAUL WEBSTER

LENGTH: 397 words

DATELINE: PARIS


French police and secret servicemen rounded up 64 foreigners, mostly from the
Middle East, in a series of dawn raids yesterday, in connection with three
terrorist attacks in Paris last week in which 19 people were injured.

The police raids in Paris, Marseilles, Bordeaux, and other cities were led by
members of the internal intelligence service, the DST, which has infiltrated
several organisations, but it is uncertain who was behind the attacks on a
shopping centre and two big stores.


A fourth bomb was defused at the top of the Eiffel Tower as speculation
increased that a Middle East organisation was putting pressure on the Government
to release convicted terrorists.

But the wide range of yesterday's operations showed that police have no definite
leads in the wave of attacks which have also been linked to two bombs in
department stores before Christmas. About 20 people were injured in those. Among
those arrested were Iranians, Lebanese, Palestinians, Syrians, Libyans, and
Armenians.

Police said that although the arrests had been based on information 'from French
and foreign secret services' there were no definite reasons for suspecting any
of the arrested people of being linked with the bombings despite connections
with Middle East political organisations. Most were expected to be released
after questioning and some were likely to be expelled.

However, police have hopes of repeating the success which followed the arrests
of about 40 Armenians in July, 1983 after a bombing at Orly Airport in which
eight people were killed.

Information after these arrests led to the conviction of leaders of the Armenian
Secret Liberation Army.

Police will probably concentrate on an Iranian connection as there has been
speculation that pro-Khomeini organisations were seeking the release of five
terrorists convicted of an attempt to kill the former Iranian prime minister, Mr
Shapour Bakhtia, in Paris five years ago.

The theory has been strengthened after a car was stopped in a routine check on
Friday after running through a traffic light.

Meanwhile, the 2,500 extra police who have been drafted into Paris because of
the bomb wave have been ordered to increase security checks after accusations by
some opposition leaders during the current election campaign that the Socialist
Government has been complacent over terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 24, 1986

Injured tourists take plea to Europe / British couples injured in Greece
terrorist attack petition European Parliament

BYLINE: From DEREK BROWN

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: BRUSSELS


Two British couples who were wounded in a terrorist grenade attack on a Greek
hotel last year will petition the European Parliament this week for
compensation.

All they have been offered so far is a free fortnight's holiday in Greece. The
offer was rejected.


The plight of the Scunthorpe couples, William and Joyce Hunter and Philip and
Sandra Smith, has focused attention on the lack of criminal injury compensation
schemes in Greece and most other EEC countries.

The hunters and the Smiths were wounded in a grenade attack on the Glyfada
hotel, near Athens, last September. The culprits have not been identified.

As a result of the injuries they suffered in the explosion the Hunters spent 10
days in a Greek hospital. Mr and Mrs Smith - the latter was pregnant at the time
- had nine days in hospital. Only Mr Hunter has been able to return to work, as
a painter and decorator.

Mrs Smith gave birth to a son a few days ago, but her husband has not been able
to work since his return from Greece. 'I still have nightmares about it,' he
said yesterday. 'It was supposed to be the holiday of a lifetime, but I'd never
go back there.'

The petition by the two couples will be presented to the European Parliament by
their MP, Mr Edward McMillan-Scott. All EEC citizens have the right to petition
the Parliament, but there is no obligation on the assembly to take up the
complaint. In this case, the Parliament may well decide to press the British
couple's cause.

'At present, holiday insurance is full of holes,' said Mr McMillan-Scott
Conservative MEP for York.

Only Britain, Ireland, France and Germany had a system of criminal injuries
compensation, said Mr McMillan-Scott. 'Countries accepting high numbers of
tourists have an obligation to provide proper security,' he added.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 28, 1986, Friday

Fugitive denies role in bomb attacks / Irish terrorist suspect's letter to
'Republican News' (426) /SCT

LENGTH: 459 words


Terrorist suspect Evelyn Glenholmes, on the run from the police in Ireland,
yesterday denied any involvement in IRA bomb attacks in Britain.

In an 'open letter' to Republican News, the Sinn Fein weekly newspaper, Miss
Glenholmes said she had no intention of going to prison for offences she did not
commit.

The letter gives no clue to her whereabouts, but in it she thanks the people of
Dublin for supporting her after her release by a city court and during later
incidents when she was rearrested and shots were fired by a detective.

The letter said: 'I do not wish to dwell on the shameful and negative aspects of
the whole debacle except to repeat that I am being pursued for offences which I
had nothing to do with.

'People will say that if I have nothing to do with those offences then I would
have nothing to fear if brought to court in England.

'The truth is that I have already been tried and convicted by the British and I
have no intention of ending up like the Maguires, the Birmingham six, or the
Guildford four, serving a sentence for something I was not involved in.

'Nor will I allow myself to be used by FitzGerald and so in their efforts to
suck up to Margaret Thatcher. '

The letter goes on: 'This letter is addressed mainly to the ordinary people of
Ireland and especially to the people of Dublin who morally and physically
supported me when I needed help most.

'The list is endless but I would particularly like to thank my 'other family',
the people who gave me a home when I could no longer return to my own. '

The anti-terrorist unit detective who fired three warning shots in the air in a
crowded Dublin street during the chase of Miss Glenholmes is to be promoted.
Detective Christopher Power, who two years ago was wounded in a gun battle with
Dominic McGlinchey, the former INLA leader, will become a uniformed sergeant.

In London, two men were yesterday ordered to stand trial at the Central Criminal
Court on charges connected with the planting of a bomb outside Chelsea Barracks,
south-west London, on November 11 last year.

Peter Conleth O'Loughlin, aged 26, an unemployed carpenter, of St Julian's Road,
Kilburn, north London, and Patrick Joseph McLaughlan, aged 26, also unemployed,
of Bracken Park, Gallagh, Londonderry, were accused at Lambeth Magistrates'
Court of conspiring with others to cause an explosion 'likely to endanger life
or cause serious injury to property'.

In Amsterdam, the Dutch Prosecutor's Office yesterday appealed against a Dutch
court ruling that IRA members Brendan McFarlane and Gerard Kelly cannot be
extradited to Britain solely for their part in a 1983 escape from the Maze
Prison, Belfast. The court described the offence as a political crime.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            March 29, 1986, Saturday

Punjab religious divide widens as nine die in Sikh terrorist attacks / Indian
unrest (292) /SCT

BYLINE: From MICHAEL HAMLYN, DELHI

LENGTH: 299 words


The religious divide between Hindus and Sikhs worsened again yesterday in the
battered border state of Punjab, as 10 more people died in intercommunal
incidents.

In Ludhiana, a team of Sikh terrorists, some reported to be dressed in police
uniforms, stormed up to a group of members of a right-wing Hindu organization
who were doing early morning exercises in an open space called the Daresi
Ground.

Witnesses said there were four to six of the Sikhs riding a motorcycle and a
scooter. They opened fire on the men with sub-machine guns, killing some and
injuring others.

The terrorists then drove off to the town's vegetable market, where they killed
another. Further along the main road they gunned down more people.

Since Ludhiana is largely a Hindu town the people responded badly to the
killings, throwing stones, beating up police and setting auto-rickshaws on fire.
They were especially incensed by the police in the station about 100 yards from
the Daresi Ground, who failed to respond at the time of the shooting. An instant
curfew was placed on sensitive parts of the city.

Hindus in Nakodar, close to the other main industrial centre of Jullunder,
decided to violate a week-long curfew in protest against arrests. The police
drove them back inside by firing at them, after water cannon, plastic bullets
and tear gas had failed. One demonstrator was killed.

In Jullunder a six-hour curfew relaxation was ended when shopkeepers resisted an
attempt by a mob to close them down.

Meanwhile, Mr Rajiv Gandhi, the Indian Prime Minister, sent two Home Office
ministers to study the situation. They were instructed to offer the state
government of Mr Surjit Singh Barnala the maximum possible co-operation in
containing the deteriorating law and order situation.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 7, 1986, Monday

Fears heightened by Berlin blast / US terror alert follows bomb attack on
discotheque (277) /SCT

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER THOMAS, WASHINGTON

LENGTH: 277 words


The White House believes that Saturday's bomb attack on a West Berlin
discotheque in which two people died and more than 200 were injured is further
proof that a worldwide pattern of anti-American terrorist attacks is setting in
from diverse and unconnected groups.

News of the attack was immediately given to President Reagan at his ranch in
California, where he is on holiday. The White House said he was 'deeply
concerned about the increasing number of terrorist incidents affecting American
citizens in Europe and worldwide'.

He had asked for an early assessment of the new 'outbreak', including the
bombing last week of a TWA passenger jet.

Coincidentally, senior presidential advisers began meeting in Washington on
Saturday to assess the implications of terrorist threats against American
targets abroad.

Congress is now hurrying through legislation providing tens of millions of
dollars to improve security at diplomatic posts.

The Administration is also to seek urgent new talks with European governments.

Mr Larry Speakes, the White House spokesman, said that Mr Reagan believed
terrorism was a worldwide problem and that every nation must do its part to end
it.

The Administration is convinced that Colonel Gadaffi of Libya will seek to take
early revenge on the US for bombing his missile site at Sirte and sinking some
of his ships.

A senior US official travelling with the White House entourage in California
said that Mr Gadiffi had a master plan and had targetted more than 30 American
diplomatic facilities and a number of high-ranking diplomats in Europe and the
Middle East, according to intelligence reports.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 9, 1986, Wednesday

US tells allies of Libya link with Berlin attack / Terrorist bombing in West
Berlin discotheque (268) /SCT

BYLINE: From CHRISTOPHER THOMAS, WASHINGTON

LENGTH: 265 words


The United States has privately instructed embassies in Western Europe to tell
its allies that it has hard evidence linking Libya with Saturday's bomb atrocity
in a West Berlin discotheque.

It hopes, through quiet diplomatic means, to use the evidence to coax Europe
towards co-ordinated action against Colonel Gadaffi's regime.

American officials believe that there are tentative signs that Western Europe is
finally responding to efforts to broaden the dispute with Libya beyond its
US-Libya dimension.

A senior official, without giving details, said investigators had gathered
evidence showing that Libyan agents had operated through the Libyan People's
Bureau, or embassy, in East Berlin. It is not clear if the US has linked other
foreigners with the blast. Details will be given privately to the US allies.

The Reagan Administration is upset that news of the evidence, much of which
apparently came from intercepted Libyan messages, was revealed in an American
television interview given in Bonn by Mr Richard Burt, the US Ambassador to West
Germany. It is wary of being seen pressurizing its allies too much in public to
act against Libya.

Mr Burt said there was 'very clear evidence' of Libyan involvement, adding that
during the week before the explosion the US had told the Soviet Union and East
Germany that 'we were concerned about the possibility of an attack coming from
the Libyan People's Bureau'.

The US believes that if West Germany does move against Libya, it might provide
the incentive for other Western European governments to follow suit.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 19, 1986, Saturday

Americans stay at home for fear of terror attacks / Aftermath of US raids on
Libya (405) /SCT

BYLINE: From TREVOR FISHLOCK, NEW YORK

LENGTH: 413 words


Terrorism and the fear of Libyan reprisals are keeping millions of Americans at
home and on the ground.

They are calling off their holiday trips to Europe and the Mediterranean and are
opting for the places they think are safer. They are swarming to Canada, Alaska,
and the holiday regions in their own country.

Many people want nothing to do with airports or aircraft. They are choosing
motoring holidays - and the bonus of cheap petrol.

Thousands who are sticking to their plans to travel to and from the US are
cancelling their flights on American airlines and switching instead to others
they believe more safe.

A New York travel agent said yesterday: 'We had written off Greece some time
ago. Hardly anyone wants to go there. Now we find that people are cancelling
their trips to Italy, Spain, Portugal, and even France.

'And it is not only a matter of cancellations: this year we have not had so many
bookings in the first place. At this time I usually have a huge stack of
bookings to process. This year, hardly any.

'The effect on the European holiday trade is devastating. Fortunately my
business is about 90 per cent business travel, and that still remains good.

'Businessmen are still going to London because it is such an important
commercial centre, and many of them tack on a holiday after the business trip.
London, Amsterdam and Scandanavia are still seen as being OK.

'But I am kept busy by people wanting to switch from airlines like TWA to other
airlines.

'Of course, a few people are not frightened. An Israeli woman who books with us
told me that you have to take risks; she said that as an Israeli she is used to
doing that. But Americans simply do not have that sort of background and
experience. '

Another New York travel agent said: 'This year is a wipe-out for a lot of
foreign travel. We are laying off staff and we have had only six bookings to
Europe this week. Some people are cancelling and saying they do not want to go
to any country that does not support the United States. '

Last year 6.5 million American tourists went to Europe and spent more than
dollars 10 billion ( pounds 6.6 billion). The travel trade thinks the number
could be halved this year.

As security measures are tightened at American airports, airlines say they are
having to spend more on security checks.

Pan Am has asked the Government to agree to a dollars 5 surcharge on Atlantic
tickets to pay for the extra security.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 22, 1986

Blitz spirit / Fear of terrorist attack in the US

BYLINE: From WJ WETHERBY

LENGTH: 548 words

DATELINE: NEW YORK


The Libya raid and its aftermath have revealed a marked change in Americans'
attitude towards war. 'It can't happen here' used to be a fairly general
reaction in a country that hasn't fought a war on its own soil since the civil
war 120 years ago. It explained the popularity of the domino theory justifying
the Vietnam war. Fight in Vietnam and your would never have to fight in Times
Square.

Nuclear warfare has been at a safe stalemate, but the growth of international
terrorism has apparently convinced most Americans that war cannot any longer be
restricted to a faraway foreign battlefield. Terrorists cross borders as easily
as second world war commandos in old, late night movies, and so a new sense of
dread about what could happen has begun to surface in a congested skyscraper
city like New York, which suffers even at normal times from an advanced state of
claustrophobia.


New Yorkers always feel especially vulnerable to such hazards as fires which are
treated as an emergency midtown however small. Earthquakes and air raids are
common New York nightmares according to local psychiatrists who always have a
booming business, but now terrorists have taken over as the main threat.

Mayor Koch felt it necessary to reassure his fellow citizens by claiming that
New York's anti-terrorism defence system makes it 'probably the safest city in
the world. ' He also argued that the presence of the United Nations tended to
deter terrorism. 'The terrorists don't want to disturb their relationships with
some of the countries in the UN,' said the mayor.

A good visual aid to the mayor's claims came when President Reagan visited New
York on Friday for a fund-raising speech at the Waldorf Astoria. Police vehicles
blocked all cross-streets along the route of the president's motorcade on Second
and Third Avenues between 34th and 50th Streets. Police sharpshooters were
stationed on roofs around the Waldorf and counter-terrorist teams patrolled the
streets. The city's bomb squad had to deal with 32 bomb scares only two more
than usual. Police and secret service agents armed with rifles and automatic
weapons in cars and on motorcycles led the way for the president. When hotel
workers reported smoke on the Waldorf's 10th floor, fire trucks with wailing
sirens raced ahead to the scene, but it proved to be a false alarm.

The President's route was kept secret so motorists on that side of the city were
delayed indefinitely. By evening it all seemed like a costly exercise in
anticlimax and there were privately-expressed hopes on all sides that the
president would not pay another visit for a long time.

New Yorkers with eight million very mixed people crammed into a few acres are
used to learning to live with anything or anybody. It can only be a matter of
time before terrorism becomes as routine a topic as nuclear warfare, scandals at
City Hall or the latest mafia assassination.

Yesterday I overheard two teenage girls in a mid-town snack-bar discussing very
matter-of-factly what war must be like. 'The Brits, you know,' said one of them,
'had to live in their basements in the world war. ' Then they began to argue
over the merits of Prince and Madonna. Oh yes, even a sense of dread does not
last long in this ever-changing city.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 25, 1986

US and EEC join forces in new attack on terrorism / Scheme to swap information

BYLINE: From DEREK BROWN

LENGTH: 690 words

DATELINE: THE HAGUE


The United States and EEC governments are to join forces in a new drive against
terrorism.

A scheme to swap information suggested by the US Attorney-General, Mr Edwin
Meese, in talks with EEC interior ministers here, was approved yesterday by
ministers along with a series of measures to beef up anti-terrorist co-operation
within the Community.


The Home Secretary, Mr Douglas Hurd, said that the meeting had moved the
so-called Trevi process into higher gear. The Trevi group was established
informally within the EEC 10 years ago to exchange information between police
forces and interior and justice ministries.

Yesterday's meeting was only the third at ministerial level since 1976. But in
the new mood of urgency surrounding the Libyan crisis, ministers agreed to meet
at least twice a year, and to gear their information swapping role to the policy
needs of foreign ministers.

There will also be more frequent meetings of senior police officers and other
experts to coordinate security.

Chief police officers are to meet here next month to discuss airport security.
The next ministerial session will be under Mr Hurd's chairmanship, when Britain
takes over the EEC presidency for the second half of the year. The US is likely
to have a consultative role before, or even during the meeting.

The contacts will be the formal responsibility of the past, present, and future
holders of the EEC presidency - at the moment, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, and
Britain.

Mr Hurd said: 'It has been agreed that there should be contacts at the beginning
of each presidency .. between the Trevi groups and third countries. Obviously,
pre-eminent among those is the US. '

The Home Secretary, clearly enthusiastic about closer international
co-operation, added: 'The exchange of timely, quick, efficent information is the
key to the whole thing.

'Our capitals and other cities contain a melange of groups of people who, for
one reason or another, are capable of terrorism. They don't respect frontiers
and it is essential that our efforts are not inhibited by frontiers. The Trevi
machinery exists to leap over frontiers. '

Ministers were reluctant afterwards to talk about techniques and methods which
might be mobilised to fight against terrorism.

Greek doubts about the EEC stand on Libya emerged again, when the Interior
Minister, Mr Agamemnon Kontsogiorbis, insisted that terrorist links to the
Gadafy regime were not proved.

Meanwhile, in Athens, police said they had found a travel bag containing 44lb of
explosives near a seaside resort outside the city, apparently to be used in a
terrorist attack.

Ministers were reluctant to discuss Libya. The Dutch Justice Minister, Mr Fritz
Korthals Altes, was visibly irritated and refused to comment when asked about a
list, leaked by a German delegation source, of countries most suspected of
harbouring or inspiring terrorists. The list, to nobody's great surprise, is
said to include Libya, Iran, and Syria, and is apparently for use by EEC foreign
ministers.

Mr Hurd underlined that discussions not only concerned the Libyan threat. They
were not even confined to terrorism: the Irish pressed for a united front on
kidnapping, the Belgians, for more action to prevent football violence, and the
British, for tighter extradition rules.

The Irish Home Affairs Minister, Mr Alan Dukes, suggested joint community action
to curb or ban kidnap insurance. The idea will be discussed further during the
British presidency.

Mr Hurd said he had expressed Britain's passionate interest in the new US
legislation to speed up the extradition of IRA suspects. He also commended
Britain's own proposed Criminal Justice Bill measures, including removal of the
obligation on a country seeking extradition to prove a prima facie case against
the suspect.

The wide-ranging nature of the talks was underlined in the final Communique,
which spoke of a plan for a common strategy for combating international crime.

Denmark is reducing the staff at the Libyan mission in Copenhagen by three
diplomats and two non-diplomatic staff, it announced yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 1986, Monday

Summit rush to agree draft on terrorism: Rocket attack near Tokyo palace as
leaders gather (819) /SCT

BYLINE: From SARAH HOGG and DAVID WATTS

LENGTH: 904 words


Economic summit officials were working on a special declaration on terrorism
after rocket attacks in Tokyo Both Mrs Thatcher and President Reagan were
unruffled by the attack, but police increased security The attacks near the
Akasaka Palace concided with the arrival of leaders of the seven most powerful
democracies President Reagan is to press Europe to join an embargo on Libyan oil
in a further attempt at sanctions

TOKYO - A salvo of rocket attacks in central Tokyo, coinciding with the arrival
ceremonies for the economic summit of the leaders of the seven most powerful
democracies, further underlined the need for a strong declaration on measures to
counter terrorism, Mrs Thatcher urged here yesterday.

She arrived in Tokyo only a couple of hours before five home-made rockets
exploded near the Akasaka Palace, where the Prime Minister, Mr Yasuhiro
Nakasone, was greeting the heads of government of the United States, Germany,
France, Britain, Italy and Canada, as well as the President of the European
Commission.

The rockets were fired from outside a two-kilometre ring of security thrown
around the summit area by 30,000 Japanese police.

However, the attacks did not disrupt the summit talks, which are focussing on
anti-terrorist measures, the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and - after
the delivery of a special letter from Mr Mikhail Gorbachov, the Soviet leader,
to Mrs Thatcher before she left London - the prospect for a summit meeting
between the leaders of the United States and the Soviet Union.

Officials were working overnight on two special declarations, expected to be
issued today, suggesting concrete measures to deal with terrorism and restore
international confidence in the nuclear industry.

Other issues being aired on the eve of the two-day summit include the
international traffic in drugs, the situation in Afghanistan and the prospects
for south-east Asia, for which Mr Nakasone considers himself the natural
spokesman at the summit.

A sharp disagreement on exchange rates has developed as the most critical
economic conern, followed by the growth of protectionism.

Heads of government, meeting for dinner last night at Mr Nakasone's official
residence, concentrated on a British draft for the planned declaration of new
counter-terrorist measures, but officials were instructed to quarry other drafts
for measures.

These are expected to include limitations on arms sales to terrorist states and
tighter visa controls, but not economic sanctions. Nor are the Americans likely
to succeed in their demands for a mention of Libya by name in the summit
declaration, which will take a much firmer tone than previous anti-terrorist
statements made at several summits in the past decade.

The summit deputations, which include foreign and finance ministers, are also
framing as a statement on the need for worldwide agreement on an early warning
system between governments on the kind of nuclear leakage which occurred at
Chernobyl.

President Reagan's criticism here on Saturday that the Soviet Union had not
shown good neighbourliness will be shaped into a demand that all members of the
International Atomic Energy Agency provide other members with prompt
explanations and permit international inspection of their nuclear plants. One
senior official suggested the declaration should oblige all states to recognize
that no nuclear plant is an island.

Japan's interest was stimulated by an unexpected increase in levels of
radioactivity in the rainfall reported in Tokyo yesterday.

Relations with the Soviet Union secured a high place on the summit agenda with
Mrs Thatcher's delivery to President Reagan of the message contained in the
letter from Mr Gorbachov.

According to leading British officials, the gist of the message was that Mr
Gorbachov was still very much in the summit business.

In Tokyo, President Reagan, with whom Mrs Thatcher had a one-hour private
meeting yesterday, responded to the Gorbachov message by stressing his desire
for talks with the Soviet leader.

Mrs Thatcher also discussed Libya, and the fall-off in American tourism to
England since the raid on Tripoli, as well as economic relations between the
United States and Britain, which have worsened following the further upsurge in
protectionism. She further stressed the need to check American supplies of funds
to terrorists in Northern Ireland.

Economic issues, on which these annual summits are intended to focus, will come
to the fore in formal discussions beginning this morning.

The rapid rise of the yen, which has appreciated 40 per cent against the dollar
since September, and the decline in the dollar, are the critical issues.

Yesterday the American Treasury Secretary, Mr James Baker, rebuffed Japanese
pleas for help in lowering the yen, stressing the need for Japan to reduce its
trade surplus, now running at more than dollars 60 billion a year.

Summit governments are expected to agree to let markets decide for a while,
taking no further steps to depress the dollar but refusing to intervene
collectively to prevent a further rise in the yen.

Japan's trading partners are urging the removal of special tax incentives to
saving which deter spending.

The Japanese Finance Minister, Mr Noboru Takeshita, indicated yesterday that he
was planning to reduce the top rate of tax in Japan from 88 per cent to 60 per
cent.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 9, 1986

Overseas News in Brief: Judges unhurt / Terrorist attack in Madrid

BYLINE: By JANE WALKER

LENGTH: 53 words


Spain's most senior judge escaped unhurt yesterday after a terrorist grenade
attack on his official chauffeur-driven car in central Madrid. Police said that
the car of Antonio Hernandez Gil, aged 71, president of the Spanish Supreme
Court, was hit by three grenades fired by remote control from another car.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 16, 1986, Friday

UK attacked over Tamil terrorism / Sri Lanka's ethnic conflict (360) /SCT

BYLINE: From MICHAEL HAMLYN, COLOMBO

LENGTH: 378 words


While warning his countrymen to take new precautions against a continuation of
the series of bomb outrages in Colombo, the minister responsible for Sri Lanka's
anti-terrorist campaign also pointed out yesterday that people living in Britain
bear some blame for the killings.

Mr Lalith Athulathmudali, the Minister for National Security, said: 'Mr and Mrs
Macpherson and their daughter died through terrorist activity based on money
which could conceivably have been raised in Britain. '

The Macphersons were killed when a bomb destroyed an Air Lanka TriStar on the
tarmac of Colombo airport last week.

Mr Athulathmudali has complained in the past about the fund-raising activities
of Tamil separatists living in exile in Britain.

Yesterday he compared his fears with those of the Indian Government over the
activities of Sikh extremists in Britain.

He also said that although Sri Lanka had not yet formally requested the
extradition of any separatist rebel living in Britain, because 'we don't think
we have enough evidence to satisfy the English courts', he thought it would soon
do so.

Mr Athulathmudali added that relations on a government-to-government basis with
Britain have been good in most respects.

Issuing a list of seven detailed precautions which should be taken in all
government buildings and all buildings to which the public have access, the
minister said he believed the rebels would again try a terrorist bomb attack in
the south in order to wreck the current Indian diplomatic initiative.

Seventeen people died as a result of the bomb planted on the Air Lanka plane,
and another 14 were killed when a bomb exploded in the city's central telegraph
office three days later.

Discussing the chances for a peaceful political solution to the island republic
ethnic crisis, the minister, who had detailed discussions with an Indian
Government team visiting Sri Lanka, said that now was the time for informal
talks.

He said he was personally anxious to avoid negotiations taking place in the
limelight, but thought that progress could now be achieved provided the glare of
publicity on every move was avoided.

He thought it was unlikely that a ceasefire could be agreed before the
negotiations could take place.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 20, 1986

UK News in Brief: Police keep security on ferries / Alert continues in face of
possible terrorist attack

BYLINE: By ANDREW MONCUR

LENGTH: 148 words


Police are continuing to impose tight security at 14 ports on the east and south
coasts and in the Channel Islands.

A police spokesman in Kent, where the combined operation is being co-ordinated,
said yesterday: 'It will continue - how long is difficult, if not impossible, to
say. We are reviewing its duration as we go. '


He declined to say whether police were on the alert for a particular type of
car. Unofficial sources on the continent, where similar security has been
introduced at ports in France, Belgium and the Netherlands have suggested that
police are watching for a white Volvo.

Ferries from British ports appeared to sail on time yesterday, despite more
rigorous checks of vehicles and baggage. Armed police remained on duty at Dover,
Folkestone, Ramsgate and Sheerness, and plain clothes officers were understood
to be travelling aboard ferries.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 27, 1986, Tuesday

Corsican separatist admit terror attack (244) /SCT

BYLINE: From DIANA GEDDES, PARIS

LENGTH: 253 words


The Corsican National Liberation Front has claimed responsibility for the
terrorist attack on a holiday camp in Corsica, in which two people died and four
were injured. But the front says that it had never intended to kill anyone.

In a statement sent to newspapers on the island, the separatist movement said:
'As everyone knows, this type of action is intended simply to destroy buildings
after the neutralization of the occupants, who are put in a safe place, out of
the range of an explosion. '

The 30 people in the camp on May 15 had been tied up and warned about the danger
of explosions, the statement said.

But they had not paid attention to that warning. M Jacques Rosselet, aged 66,
and a policeman were killed as they were trying to defuse one of the bombs left
by the terrorists.

'We did not want that to happen, and it should be remembered that we have always
made it a point of honour to avoid such accidents, often endangering the lives
and security of our own members', the front claimed.

The statement said that M Rosselet had been singled out for attack because of
his 'deep-seated hatred against Corsica .. We knew about his suspicious
friendships: indeed, our commando found weapons and explosives ready for use on
the site (of the camp).'

After the attack, police arrested 65 people in raids on homes of suspected
separatist militants and sympathizers, but all were released without being
charged.

It is understood that six people are still being sought by the police.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 31, 1986

Attacks dim the hopes for peace / Terrorist bombings in Colombo are set back to
India's attempts to settle Sri Lanka's ethnic conflict

BYLINE: From ERIC SILVER

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI


Yesterday's terrorist bombing in the heart of Colombo deepened the frustration
of Indian diplomats who have been trying patiently to negotiate a peaceful
solution to Sri Lanka's ethnic conflict.

'The situation is very depressing,' one said yesterday. 'Each side's violence
becomes a justification for the other's'


Delhi has not yet given up its mediating role, but one of those closely involved
acknowledged that 'As long as the killings take place, they get in the way of
serious efforts'.

The Indian High Commissioner in Colombo, Mr JN Dixit, said on Thursday that the
negotiations were 'in a state of suspension', any progress would depend on the
Sri Lankan Government's willingness to fill 'crucial gaps' in its latest offer.

Mr Dixit is returning to Delhi this weekend for consultations, while his Sri
Lankan counterpart in the Indian capital, Mr Bernard Tilakaratna, leaves for
Colombo today.

The irony is that both Indian and Sri Lankan sources report unpublicised
progress during the last round of discussions. The government's offensive in the
Jaffna peninsula and the continued killings and bombings by the Tamil
separatists are preventing the mediators from exploring President Junius
Jayewardene's grudging flexibility to the point where it would be worth trying a
new formula on the militants.

The Sri Lankan Government and the Tamils are as far apart as ever on one of the
three key issues still in dispute: a merger of the predominately Tamil northern
and eastern provinces.

Colombo sees this as too close to partition for comfort, but has agreed to
devolution of power to separate provincial governments. The Tamils insist on
their own 'homeland,' whatever its relationship to the rest of the island.

The Government, however, is believed to have softened its position last month on
the two other points: control of law and order, and future land settlement. Mr
Jayewardene agreed to the establishment of provincial police forces under the
authority of the chief minister, and endorsed a formula which would ensure that
the balance in the north and east between majority Sinhalese and minority Tamils
would not be disturbed.

An Indian source welcomed the land settlement pledge as 'encouraging,' although
it had still to be put to the Tamil organisations in exile in Madras. India has,
however, sought clarification on law and order, where it saw 'vital gaps' in the
Sri Lankan offer.

Colombo has not rejected the Indian request, but is refusing to reply until the
militants prove that they are seriously interested in a political solution.

The Indians see the provincial police forces as pivotal. They need to know more
about their size, recruitment, functions, and control. If the forces exercised
credible authority, India would be able to argue that even though the Tamils
might have to make do with two provinces, they could feel safe in them.

'The biggest problem,' an Indian mediator confided, 'is confidence. Neither side
trusts the other. You're worrying about every comma. '

For the moment, the focus of Indian efforts is on Colombo rather than Madras.
The mediators know the Tamil demands. They are waiting to hear from Mr
Jayewardene. 'Talking to the boys will become relevant once we know the content
of the package,' a diplomat said.

Delhi is also inhibited from putting pressure on the militants by the strength
of pro-Tamil sentiment among the 50 million Tamils in the south Indian state of
Tamil Nadu. A general strike has been called there for today to protest against
the central Government's 'inaction. ' The stoppage has the blessing of the state
government.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 9, 1986, Monday

12 killed in terror attacks / Violence in India (78) /SCT

BYLINE: MICHAEL HAMLYN

LENGTH: 68 words


Terrorists attacked Hindus again yesterday, killing two people and seriously
injuring a third at a Hindu religious service which handicapped people were
holding in Batala, (Michael Hamlyn writes). The killings followed a weekend of
violence in which another 10 people died, including five workers at an ice
factory, three at a grain market, and an Iranian student at the Punjabi
University in Patiala.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 11, 1986

Brighton bomb man guilty / Patrick Magee convicted of IRA terrorist attack

BYLINE: By GARETH PARRY

LENGTH: 1117 words


Patrick Magee, a 35-year-old IRA man from Belfast, was yesterday found guilty of
the Brighton bombing, an attempt to assassinate the Prime Minister and her
Cabinet.

An Old Bailey jury convicted him of planting a bomb at the Grand Hotel, and
causing the explosion during the Conservative Party Conference on October 12,
1984.


He was also found guilty of murdering the five people who died in the blast
which, the court heard, was 'one of the worst acts of terrorism in this country,
and came within an inch of being the Provisional IRA's most devastating
explosion. '

The jury of six men and six women took five hours 15 minutes to reach their
verdict on the 24th day of the trial of Magee, who the Crown prosecutor, Mr Roy
Amlot, QC, said, had planted a time bomb in Room 629 of the Grand Hotel, about
24 days before the explosion. Magee did not give evidence or call witnesses at
the trial.

The jury still has to reach verdicts on Magee and four other people accused of
conspiring to carry out a bomb blitz of London and 12 seaside towns last summer.
Mr Justice Boreham sent them to an hotel where they will be guarded overnight.
They will continue their deliberations today.

Five prominent members of the Conservative party died in the explosion, which
happened at 2.54 am on the final day of the conference.

They were Mr Eric Taylor, aged 54, chairman of the party's north west area, Sir
Anthony Berry, aged 59, MP for Enfield, Southgate, Mrs Anne Wakeham, aged 45,
wife of the government chief whip, Mrs Jeanne Shattock, aged 52, wife of the
chairman of the party's western area, and Mrs Muriel McLean, aged 54, wife of
the Chairman of the Scottish Conservatives.

Mrs Thatcher and members of the Cabinet were staying on the first floor of the
hotel where Magee had booked into Room 629 and concealed a bomb of between 20
and 30 pounds of gelignite behind the panels of a bath.

He used the name Roy Walsh, of Braxfield Road, London, but three months after
the explosion, Scotland Yard fingerprint experts confirmed that a palm print on
the hotel's registration card matched police records of the Irishman, who was
brought up in Norwich, and whose parents live in Ashford, Kent.

Magee's counsel, Mr Richard Ferguson, QC, claimed the police planted Magee's
print on the registration card in an effort to frame him and restore their
credibility after the explosion.

The hotel had been guarded for the conference week by plainclothes and uniformed
Sussex police officers, members of the Metropolitan Police Close Protection
Unit, and 24-hour security cameras.

A police operations room in the hotel monitored the building during the
conference week.

But Magee had circumvented all those security measures by planting the bomb on
September 17, 1984, setting its 'deadly accurate' timing mechanism for a time 24
days, six hours and 35 minutes later.

Crown counsel said he had committed a blunder to shame any second rate burglar
by leaving his fingerprints on the registration card.

All the receptionist could recall of Magee - or 'Roy Walsh' - was that he had
paid pounds 180 in cash in advance for a three-night stay. Miss Trudy Groves
allocated him Room 629 'because it was a nice room facing the sea. '

On the final day of his stay, a waiter had delivered tea and turkey sandwiches.
The door was opened by a taller man than Magee but the waiter recalled there
appeared to be someone else in the bathroom.

The bomb was activated that evening when the occupants of the room ordered a
bottle of vodka and three cokes. On September 19, 'Mr Walsh' and his companion,
who has never been traced, left the hotel with the bomb ticking away as
unsuspecting guests came and went.

Three couples - from the United States, London and Hertfordshire - and a
businessman from Bombay were subsequently traced and eliminated from the police
hunt.

Sir Donald McLean and his wife Muriel, booked in to Room 629 on October 9, at
the start of the conference week. Mr Gordon Shattock, and his wife, Jeanne, took
Room 628.

Sir Donald told the jury that he and his wife had entertained guests until 1.45
am on October 12. The Shattocks retired just before midnight, but Mr Shattock
was woken by noisy guests at 2.30 am, and was only dozing when the bomb went off
at 2.54 am.

Mrs McLean died from her injuries on November 13 after what counsel called a
'remarkable fight. '

Mr Shattock, who was later knighted, had a miraculous escape. He fell from the
sixth floor to the basement with huge chunks of debris tumbling with him. He
managed to crawl out of the rubble in the basement with Mrs Taylor, who had also
fallen from the sixth floor.

Mrs Shattock was blown out of her room, across a corridor, and into Room 638.
She died instantly from the blast which sent small fragments of bathroom tile in
to her body 'like bullets. '

But her injuries indicated the direction of the blast and also the seat of the
explosion. It led experts to place the bomb between the baths of Rooms 628 and
629. The nature of Mrs Shattock's injuries, the pieces of ceramic tiles and the
burns from the fireball narrowed the seat of the explosion to Room 629.

This led the police to trace everyone who had stayed in the room. Each occupant
was seen, and eliminated from inquiries, until detectives tried to trace 'Roy
Walsh. '

The registration card he signed was examined by Scotland Yard experts using
chemical and laser tests. Magee's right palm and left little finger prints were
exposed.

These were compared with the police fingerprints record taken from Magee when he
was convicted of three offences as a juvenile.

The 'Roy Walsh' signature and address were examined by handwriting experts who
concluded that they were Magee's handwriting.

There were two outstanding characteristics - the figure '2' had a long base, and
capital 'E 'was written with the pen not leaving the paper when the upper
horizontal strokes were made.

Magee has pleaded not guilty with four others to a conspiracy to cause 16
explosions - four in London and 12 in seaside towns - which were due to go off
on consecutive days, excepting Sunday in July and August last year.

The other defendants are Gerard McDonnel, aged 34, Peter Sherry, aged 30,
Martina Anderson, aged 23, Ella O'Dwyer, aged 26.

As Magee left the dock with the other defendants last night, he said 'Good luck'
to friends sitting in the public gallery above him.

After the court rose, Mr Justice Boreham issued a Contempt of Court Order
prohibiting the publication of any material relating to the trial, except the
verdicts given yesterday and evidence during the trial in the presence of the
jury.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 18, 1986, Wednesday

Two senior army men killed in Madrid machine gun attack / Spanish terrorism
(325) /SCT

BYLINE: From RICHARD WIGG, MADRID

LENGTH: 332 words


Two senior Spanish army officers and the driver of their official car were shot
dead in a hail of machine gun fire by two young men and one woman during the
lunchtime rush hour yesterday. They were on a boulevard flanking Madrid's
Manzanares river.

Witnesses said the killers fired directly through the army vehicle's windows
from their passing car.

Eta, the Basque separatist organization, was immediately suspected. It has often
struck during election campaigns - Spaniards go to the polls on Sunday in their
fourth general election since the advent of democracy in 1977.

Spain's Socialist Party, seeking a second four-year term, immediately put out a
statement condemning a 'terrorist provocation' aimed to destabilize Sunday's
vote.

One of the victims was Major Ricardo Saenz de Ynestrillas, aged 51, who was well
known as an officer of extreme right-wing views. He was a friend of the former
Civil Guard colonel, Antonio Tejero, who stormed Parliament at gunpoint in the
1981 coup attempt.

The other victims were Lieutenant-Colonel Carlos Besteiro, aged 50, and the
soldier driver.

An attempt was made by several passers-by to stop the killers, who fled in a
Renault with false number plates. A policeman on a motor cycle was injured when
he attempted to stop them.

Large crowds quickly gathered on the boulevard and began angrily shouting: 'Eta
murders. '

Major Saenz de Ynestrillas was court-martialled with Colonel Tejero for plotting
in 1978 to seize the office of the then Prime Minister, Senor Adolfo Suarez, and
take him hostage. The major served a one-year prison sentence.

There is a clear risk now of an extreme right-wing reaction in the last days of
the election campaign. A coalition of minor right-wing and Catholic groups is
running on Sunday.

Eta's last big attack in Madrid was in late April, when it killed five members
of the Civil Guard as their van was hit by a car bomb.

This election campaign has been relatively quiet.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 19, 1986, Thursday

Falangists use funeral of army terror victims to attack Government / Protest
against Spain's response to Basque terrorism (400) /SCT

BYLINE: From RICHARD WIGG, MADRID

LENGTH: 418 words


A funeral with crowds outside shouting insults at Spain's Socialist Government
and singing the old Falangist hymn, Face to the sun, went ahead here yesterday
for the three army victims killed on Tuesday by an Eta squad.

The relatives had refused an official ceremony in the presence of the Defence
Minister.

The crowd, about 700 strong, many of them army officers and some others dressed
in the blue shirts of Franco's National Movement, shouted 'government murderers'
and 'Eta is guilty, but the Government is to blame. '

Handbills were distributed, calling for a vote in Sunday's general election (for
the extreme right-wing National Unity Coalition to 'save Spain'.

The funeral was led by the family of Ricardo Saenz de Ynestrillas, one of the
victims and an army major well known for his extreme right-wing views.

None of the coffins could be moved to the Army General Headquarters for the
customary funeral service held to honour those gunned down by the Basque armed
separatist organization and attended by Senor Narcis Serra, the Defence
Minister, and all three service chiefs.

One hour after that ceremony had been held, a funeral service for Major Saenz de
Ynestrillas, an army lieutenant-colonel shot with him, and their national
serviceman driver took place with all three victims' families present in the
army general hospital.

But the press and politicians 'of all parties', as a spokesman for the bereaved
put it, were barred entry.

The family of the major, who once served a prison sentence for plotting to
overthrow Spanish democracy, had told the army authorities that the Spanish flag
of the Franco era must be used to drape the coffin. This flag is illegal, having
been replaced by the re-designed flag of Spain's democracy.

General Jose Saenz, the army chief, was insulted on Tuesday night when he sought
to pay his respects to the bereaved.

The triple killing, claimed by Eta in phone calls in the Basque country, has
raised the political temperature, especially with polling due to take place in
the general elections on Sunday.

Senor Felipe Gonzalez, the Prime Minister, who is seeking a second four-year
term, answered worried citizens in a radio phone-in programme yesterday, telling
them the best way to reply to the terrorists was to turn out massively to vote
on Sunday.

Senor Manuel Fraga, the right-wing leader, used another radio phone-in programme
to express his sympathy with the widows of army and police officers killed by
Eta.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 21, 1986, Saturday

Terror-style attack at News International depot / Kent (391) /SCT

BYLINE: NICHOLAS BEESTON

LENGTH: 412 words


Hooded saboteurs armed with knives and spiked ball bearings caused 0 pounds 2,00
worth of damage on Thursday night at a vehicle depot in Kent which distributes
News International papers.

Police said at least 15 men wearing terrorist-style balaclava masks cut the
perimeter fence at the TNT distribution depot in Snodland and fired 'lethal'
ball bearings from catapults at buildings and vehicles.

Accomplices also hurled bricks and rocks into the depot but no-one on site was
injured.

The intruders slashed 16 tyres on eight unmarked vans, smashed the windscreens
of five private cars and vans and poured paint on one vehicle.

The attack coincided with the biggest march on the depot by 400 print union
pickets.

Police refused to say whether the two incidents were connected but described the
pickets as 'peaceful'.

Mr Tom Bell, TNT's general manager, said yesterday that only five employees were
at the site at the time of the attack.

'Despite being outnumbered, they managed to catch one of the men and pull off
his balaclava mask, but when we saw the size of the pickets we had to let him
go. '

The employees then had to take cover under a hail of missile fire before police
arrived. The attack had no effect on the distribution of The Times and The Sun.

Mr Bell said that the depot had been attacked three times, but the latest was
the most serious and well organized.

Drivers at the depot added that they had received death threats before the
attack occurred.

Assistant Chief Constable Paul Condon, of the Kent police, said that the police
were prepared for picketing but had not expected a 'reckless criminal rage'.

'It was clearly designed to cause damage and was reckless as to whether people
were injured or not,' he said. Mr Condon said the police recovered 24 ball
bearings, some of which had penetrated the walls of temporary buildings on the
site.

'Had one of them hit a person it could have killed,' he said. 'They are the gang
of armed thugs we have seen at attacks elsewhere. '

Up to June 9,918 people had been arrested and 799 charged with various offences
in connection with the Wapping dispute, Mr Giles Shaw, Minister of State, Home
Office, said in the Commons yesterday.

He said that the charges ranged from threatening behaviour to grievous bodily
harm. None of the charges had been dropped. Sentences on the 474 people so far
convicted included conditional discharges, fines, and imprisonment.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 24, 1986

Eight life gaol sentences for IRA's Brighton bomber / Patrick Magee sentenced
for Grand Hotel terror attack

BYLINE: By DAVID PALLISTER

LENGTH: 683 words


Patrick Magee, the IRA man who killed five people in his attempt to assassinate
the Prime Minister and her Cabinet at the Grand Hotel, Brighton in 1984, was
given eight life sentences at the Old Bailey yesterday with a recommendation
that he serve at least 35 years.

Magee and four other members of a Provisional IRA active service unit, including
two women, were each sentenced to life imprisonment for conspiracy to cause
explosions last summer at English seaside resorts. Their counsel were instructed
to make no pleas in mitigation. An Irishman who helped the team with
accommodation in Glasgow was given eight years.


As each of the five main conspirators was dealt with by Mr justice Boreham,
relatives in the dock smiled and shouted the Provisionals' slogan 'Tiocfaidh Ar
La,' meaning our day will come. The prisoners, ignoring the judge, smiled back
and gave Clenched fist salutes.

When the last one, Ella O'Dwyer, went down, her sister shouted: 'Ireland unfree
shall never be at peace. ' 'That's right,' called O'Dwyer as she disappeared
down the white tiled corridor into the cells.

Magee at first refused to stand when he was brought into the dock. Two prison
officers hauled him to his feet and held him by the arms as Mr Justice Boreham
said that he was not concerned about Magee's motives.

'I am satisfied that you enjoyed terrorist activities,' the judge said. 'You
intended to wipe out a large part of the Government and you nearly did.

'If that was not enough, within a few months you were plotting an even more
hideous campaign, much more cynical, completely inhumane, not caring about
political or military targets, but aimed at ordinary men, women and children at
the height of the holiday season.

'That was the most cowardly enterprise which has ever been my misfortune listen
to. You are a man of exceptional cruelty and inhumanity. '

Gerard McDonnell, aged 35, who escaped from the Maze prison in 1983 where he was
serving 16 years for possession of explosives, stood before the judge grinning,
with the arms folded. The judge said he had taken part in evil and cowardly
conspiracy and he was sure that McDonnell was proud of himself. He only
regretted that the charge did not allow him to recommend a minimum sentence.

Peter Sherry, aged 31, was an important member of the conspiracy, the judge
said, even though he had only turned up in Glasgow shortly before the team was
arrested last June. 'In this court you have shown your fanatical loyalty and you
are and will remain a danger to the public for some time,' the judge said.

Sentencing Martina Anderson, aged 23, the judge described her as a hard cynical
young woman. He said: 'It is difficult to envisage a young woman of intelligence
so stripped of humanity that she can sink to take part in such a plot. '

To O'Dwyer he said: 'You have sunk to the depths of inhumanity and you are proud
of it. You have enjoyed every minute of it and you are still enjoying it. '

Earlier, the judge heard mitigation pleas for Shaun McShane, aged 33, of
Glasgow, who had found two flats for the team, took a message for them to
Ireland and agreed to provide addresses for the delivery of driving licences. He
had admitted aiding and abetting the unit.

Mr Roy Amlot, prosecuting, said he accepted that Mr McShane did not know the
full details of the bombing campaign.

Defence counsel, Mr Rock Tansey, said he was a Republican sympathiser but had
never done anything before for the IRA.

Mr Justice Boreham told him: 'You gave them the opportunity to prepare
cynically, quietly, cruelly and meticulously for their hideous campaign. ' He
said eight years was the 'least sentence he could impose.

Sentence on the last defendant in the case, Donal Craig, was adjourned at the
request of his counsel for two weeks. He pleaded guilty to conspiracy.

The Tory Party chairman, Mr Norman Tebbit, who was injured in the bombing and
whose wife is still paralysed said: 'I am glad the people who have done this
will be locked up to prevent them from ever committing a similar crime. '

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 26, 1986, Thursday

Athens fears grow of new terrorist attack (187) /SCT

BYLINE: From MARIO MODIANO, ATHENS

LENGTH: 189 words


The Greek authorities are stepping up security precautions after receiving
intelligence from several sources about an impending attack by Middle Eastern
terrorists against British, American and Italian targets in Athens.

Security was tightened a week ago at British premises in Athens at the request
of the British Embassy. Italian premises here are also heavily guarded after
last Thursday's bomb attack against the Italian Chamber of Commerce and the
discovery of a bomb at the Italian consulate.

Since Sunday the alert has been extended to possible American targets.

The alert came as the Greek Government redefined its position on international
terrorism after causing many raised eyebrows in Washington and other Western
capitals.

A government spokesman said Greece condemned acts of violence committed by
liberation movements outside the territories they claimed, especially if they
involved innocent victims.

The Greek Government's rhetoric on the subject seems to be at variance with its
practice. Western counter-terrorism experts say they receive the fullest
co-operation from the Greek authorities.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 2, 1986

Mozambicans mourn victims of terror / Aftermath of MNR rebel attack in Inhambane

BYLINE: From VICTORIA BRITTAIN

LENGTH: 603 words

DATELINE: INHAMBANE


There were two mass funerals in Inhambane at the weekend for the 13 victims of
the latest killings by rebels of the Mozambique National Resistance (MNR).

Outside the high-walled Christian and Muslim cemeteries long queues of mourners
passed down the line of bereaved, shaking hands. Below the cemetery on the wide
sandy foreshore children were flying home-made kites and running after sand
crabs as though this sleepy little port town was not living under a shadow of
constant fear.


Inhambane, perched on a finger of land sticking out into the Indian Ocean
towards Madagascar, has been the scene of an extended government offensive in
recent months. The biggest MNR base in the province, Nhanjele, which the South
Africans had supplied by air, was captured last autumn and security in the area
has since vastly improved, according to military and civilian residents.

But in the town's little Portugguese-style whitewashed hospital are 12 survivors
of last week's MNR attack on a lorry in which the 13 people died. A Red Cross
worker shot through the shoulder described the early morning ambush: 'Two men
appeared in the road in front of us and began shooting. The lorry crashed into
the bank and people began to run away. They were still shooting and I was shot
again in the leg. '

The lorry was an empty food aid carrier bringing workers into Inhambane. One of
the injured said the attackers were armed with machine guns and a bazooka. 'They
set fire to the cab of the lorry and ran after some who were trying to get away
and hacked them with knives,' he said.

The men who held up the lorry made no attempt to steal it or even to demand
money or food from their victims, according to the survivors.

'The armed bandits,' as the attackers are known here, are presumably a long way
in style from the MNR leadership which puts out communiques in Lisbon or is
visited inside Mozambique by Mr Louis Nel, the South African Deputy Information
Minister.

'What we see of their work is hatcheted grandmothers and children too small to
run away,' said one doctor. But there have also been mine incidents near the
Manin Road and other ambushes carried out with machineguns which seem to
indicate that the rebels here are still able to keep some supply lines, however
irregular, to base areas hundreds of miles away. Equipment is supplied by the
South Africans using planes, submarines, and lorries through Malawi.

Driving north along the coast road from Inhambane with the military escort given
to any travelling foreigner, it is clear that neither the terror nor the
shortage of transport has brought this part of Mozambique to a complete
standstill.

To see 'bandits' face to face, the province's operations chief, Major Jose
Humberto, drove off the main road down a sandy track for about five miles
through shady cashew nut trees and past occasional wicker houses in dusty
courtyards. A piece of string across the track with a cardboard sign saying
'stop' indicated the beginning of a village settlement for 'former bandits. '

'They are living a normal life, we have no rancour against them. After their
amnesty we just accept them,' said the major. The village is an experiment in
reintegrating rebels who are captured or who give themselves up.

The 80 or so who gathered together from the fields included boys as young as 13
and quite a few young women who had stayed with the armed groups for months or
years. None of them spoke Portuguese, indicating that they were an entirely
rural group with few contacts in a broader society, although a few had been
miners in South Africa.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 12 1986, Saturday

More terrorist attacks expected in West Germany

BYLINE: FRANK JOHNSON

SECTION: Issue 62507.

LENGTH: 100 words

DATELINE: BONN


Herr Friedrich Zimmermann, the West German Minister of the Interior, said in
Wiesbaden yesterday that he expected further terrorist attacks after the murder
on Wednesday of Herr Karl-Heinz Beckurts, a Siemens director, and his driver,
Herr Eckerhard Groppler (Frank Johnson writes).

West German police sources described as 'an assumption' the French police view
that the Paris and Munich attacks on Wednesday were linked. It has long been
thought that the Red Army Faction has links with such groups as Action Directe,
Eta, and the IRA, but it is emphasized that there is no direct proof.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 14, 1986

Paris raps US over terrorist trial comments / France attacks American embassy
statement on Abdallah sentencing

BYLINE: From CAMPBELL PAGE

LENGTH: 608 words

DATELINE: PARIS


The United States, always alert to the due punishment of anti-American
terrorists and the danger of European slackness, has been reproved by the French
Government for interfering in French affairs and failing to understand the
independence of French justice.

Mr Jean-Bernard Raimond, the Foreign Minister, told the American charge
d'affaires, Mr William Barraclough, on Saturday, that a US embassy statement on
the four-year sentence given to a Lebanese terrorist in Lyons last week was
'unacceptable. ' In its statement, the embassy said it was surprised by the
mildness of the sentence in comparison with the sentences given in other
European countries in similar cases.


The imprisoned terrorist, Mr Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, aged 35, who is the
alleged leader of the Armed Revolutionary Lebanese Factions, was punished in
Lyons for using false documents, possessing arms and explosives, and for
criminal association.

The court's four-year sentence was precisely what the public prosecutor had
requested. Since Mr Abdallah has been in custody since October 1984, he has
already served almost half his term.

A US embassy spokesman said on Saturday that the US hoped that Mr Abdallah, 'who
made no secret of his violent intentions towards American citizens and belongs
to a group which has killed or tried to kill several American diplomats, will
serve his sentence in full. '

Mr Abdallah faces more serious charges in Paris of involvement in the murder of
an American military attache, Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Ray, in January, 1982,
and of an Israeli diplomat, Mr Yacov Barsimantov, in April, 1982.

The US has signalled its determination that justice shall be seen to be done to
its own satisfaction by seeking the status of civil plaintiffs at the
forthcoming trial for the American Government and for Colonel Ray's family.
Under French law a criminal prosecution and a civil action can be combined in
the same hearing.

'If our request is granted by the court, the American Government will be able to
give its own interpretation of the facts,' a US embassy spokesman said. At the
same time, it would also 'gain access to the details of the investigation'.

There is speculation here that President Reagan may even have raised the
question of Mr Abdallah with President Mitterrand when the two met in New York
this month for the one-hundredth anniversary of the Statue of Liberty.

Mr Abdallah was charged with involvement in the murder of Colonel Ray and Mr
Barsimantov after the weapon allegedly used in the killings was found in a flat
which he had rented. But there are doubts here about the strength of the case
against him, since there is apparently no direct proof that he took part.

FARL consists of former members of Mr George Habash's Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine, who come from an area of Lebanon now under Syrian
control. The group claimed responsibility for six terrorist incidents between
1981 and 1984 on French soil.

France has already suffered for Mr Abdallah's detention. The Committee of
Solidarity with Arab and Middle Eastern Political Prisoners said it was
responsible for explosions in Paris late last year in a shopping arcade in the
Champs-Elysees in a bookshop on the Left Bank, and in a sports shop at Les
Halles.

Mr Chirac, the Prime Minister, spoke on Saturday at the funeral of Inspector
Marcel Basdevant, killed last week in an explosion in Paris attributed to the
French terrorist group, Action Directe. The Prime Minister expresed his
Government's determination to resist the evil of terrorism which had afflicted
France and other democracies.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 26, 1986

Bomb hits military contractor / Terrorist attack against Dornier in
Friedrichshafen, West Germany

BYLINE: From VICTORIA POPE

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: BONN


A terrorist bomb exploded yesterday outside the offices of a leading West German
military contractor in the latest of a series of attacks by urban guerrillas.

The blast, in the car park of the aeronautics firm, Dornier, was the third
suspected Red Army Faction attack in less than three weeks. Terrorists killed a
Siemens company executive, Mr Karl Beckurts, on July 9 near Munich, and on
Thursday bombed a branch of the Fraunhofer Institute in Aachen, which
specialises in laser research.


A spokesman for the Chief Federal Prosecutor's office in Karlsruhe said that
militant supporters of the Red Army Faction were suspected in yesterday's
explosion at Immenstaad, a suburb of Freidrichshafen in southern Germany. The
bomb was left in a stolen car.

The bomb weighing about 66lb, exploded in the early hours of the morning and
blew out 250 windows at the company headquarters. Four minutes before the bomb
went off, a nightwatchman received a warning by telephone.

A note signed by the 'fighting Unit of the RAF' claiming responsibility for the
blast was found at the scene, the spokesman said. The message claimed that a
second bomb also had been planted, but by last night no other device had been
found.

Terrorism experts disagree as to whether the recent spate of bombings is proof
of a full resuscitation of the Red Army Faction, the terrorist group created
from the remnants of the former Baader Meinhof gang. The group is thought to
have an inner circle of at most 20.

Some experts see the latest campaign as evidence of a new RAF strength.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 26 1986, Saturday

Attack on Bayonne law court / Terrorist assault in south-west France

BYLINE: From DIANA GEDDES

SECTION: Issue 62519.

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: PARIS


A vast police search was launched yesterday among suspected Basque separatists
living in the Bayonne area of south-west France, after a policeman was injured
in a terrorist attack on the main law court in the town.

Two men, one speaking in French and the other in Basque, later rang local radio
stations on both sides of the border with Spain, to claim responsibility for the
attack in the name of Iparretarrak, the French Basque separatist organization.
The claims have not yet been authenticated.


The attack is believed to have been carried out in protest against the expulsion
to Spain earlier this week of two Basque refugees living in France.

The move marked a significant hardening of the new right-wing French
Government's attitude towards Spanish Basque militants living in exile on French
soil. Neither man was being sought by the police in France or Spain.

The main French judges' union, the Syndicat de la Magistrature, has severely
condemned what it regards as an 'extradition in disguise' and an abuse of the
procedure of 'emergency expulsion'.

The policeman, who was on duty outside the court in Bayonne, was injured in the
arm and eye when terrorists in a passing car fired a hail of bullets in his
direction as he went to investigate a violent explosion at the back of the court
just before 5 am yesterday.

Two more bombs which had failed to explode were later found in the court's car
park and another near a bank.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 4, 1986

Rockets hit RAF base / Terrorists attack British military base on Cyprus

BYLINE: By MARTIN WAINWRIGHT

LENGTH: 144 words


Rockets and mortars were fired at the staff quarters of an RAF base in Cyprus
yesterday, causing minor injuries to two British women and a Cypriot.

The missiles were fired at the married quarters and windsurfing club of RAF
Akrotiri, which has been on a state of enhanced alert since the American air
raid on Tripoli in April.


Witnesses said that helicopters from the base flew over nearby tourist beaches
after the raid, which was carried out by three men described as 'Arab-looking
and who escaped in a car. ' Holidaymakers were searched and British patrol boats
circled the Akrotiri peninsula in the island's southern coast.

The injured were taken for observation to the Princess Mary's hospital in the
base. RAF Akrotiri has a complement of 1,400 servicemen and women, a squadron of
Wessex helicopters and an important signalling role.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1986

Protection and the lucky strike / The terrorist attack on RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus

LENGTH: 573 words


The attack on RAF Akrotiri has emphasised the vulnerability of military
installations against determined terrorist action. Whatever the precautions
taken, it is accepted that it can be only a matter of time before a terrorist
attack succeeds. It is also a stark truism of terrorist philosophy that while
their targets have to be lucky all the time, the bombers have to be lucky only
once.

All British bases at home and overseas have been on varying degrees of alert
since the Government gave active support to the American air strikes against
Libya. The US Third Air Force has kept a conspicuously low profile at such
events as air shows since April, particularly in keeping the F 1-11s, which
raided Tripoli, well out of sight.


However, like Akrotiri, most bases have relaxed their precautions because to
maintain them inevitably makes heavy demands on manpower and seriously disrupts
the smooth running of regimental routine.

The Americans, like their British hosts, refused to discuss their security
arrangements yesterday, even to the extent of refusing to confirm the rather
obvious presence of extra armed military personnel patrolling the inner fences
of Greenham Common cruise missile base, while British troops kept their usual
station on the nine-mile long outer fence.

The two sets of guards are part of the fiction created in the Fifties that there
are no American bases in Britain, but simply American forces within RAF
establishments. Another part of this fiction is that first-line security is in
the hands of the Ministry of Defence Police, who unlike their civilian
counterparts, have an age profile well into the forties. Peace protestors call
them Mod-plods.

A highly critical House of Commons Defence Committee report two years ago, which
pointed to shortcomings in the 4,000-strong force's security arrangements, has
resulted in the formation of a reserve unit to help cope with demonstrations,
and a vigorous recruiting drive.

It is well near impossible to guard every part of a perimeter fence which
stretches for nine miles, and the ease with which peace campaigners - ordinary
citizens with no training in sabotage and often no local knowledge - find their
way to the parts that less determined people would have difficulty reaching is a
constant cause of dismay to the military.

Last month Greenham women travelled to RAF Welford, Oxfordshire, where the
Americans store their 'conventional' bombs. The women breached the fence and the
bomb store security, and then painted the bombs with peace slogans. They then
gave themselves up to the MoD police, and were subsequently charged and fined
for trespass. But on the same evening of their court appearance, another group
of women broke into RAF Welford again, and painted another load of bombs.

Peace campaigners also regularly penetrate the Royal Ordnance Factory at
Burfield, near Reading, where they make nuclear warheads. Demonstrators say that
they can nearly touch the big tanker planes at Fairford, Gloucestershire,
because they are parked so close to the perimeter. And at Aldermaston's Atomic
Research Establishment, Greenham women have been known to give themselves up to
security guards, in their frustration at not being caught.

If these bases seem to be all but indefensible from invasion by peace women and
other demonstrators, the chances of a determined terrorist succeeding must be
reckoned to be high.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1986

The base line of security / The British military presence in Cyprus in the light
of the Akrotiri terrorist attack

BYLINE: From JIM MUIR

LENGTH: 789 words

DATELINE: NICOSIA


A fully-fledged terrorist attack on one of the British bases in Cyprus is about
the last thing either the British or the Cypriot governments wanted.

For the Cypriots, it threw the spotlight on a foreign military presence which is
something of an embarrassment for the government. It also threatened to scare
off some of the tourists who provide a large part of the island's income.


For the British, it raised the spectre of having to mount a permanent
anti-terrorist vigil around bases which were certainly not designed with such a
threat in mind. This could only be done at considerable cost to their relations
with the locals.

It is now apparent that the attack carried out against the Akrotiri air base on
Sunday afternoon was considerably more impressive in scale than the authorities
at first admitted. A salvo of 60mm mortar rounds hit the married quarters,
wounding Eileen Malpass, aged 32, an NCO's wife. Another service wife,
25-year-old Sandra Edwards, was wounded when a barrage of rockets, grenades, and
small-arms fire struck the windsurfing club.

Almost as worrying for both the Cypriot and British authorities was the fact
that the assailants were able to deploy such bulky weaponry on an island where
security is normally regarded as good, and that they managed to escape and were
still at large yesterday.

The attack appeared to pitch the bases into the centre of Middle East violence.
In Beirut, an anonymous telephone caller claimed that the action had been
carried out by a hitherto-unknown pro-Libyan group calling itself the 'Unified
Nasserite Organisation. '

The claim reinforced speculation that the attack was made in reprisal for
Britain's decision to allow American bombers to use English bases to attack
Libya. Two British hostages and one American were murdered in Lebanon in
immediate reprisal and further attacks on British targets were threatened. The
Cyprus bases were put on high alert at the time, but the measures had eased off
by the time of the attack on Sunday.

Yesterday, heavily-armed commandos blocked the main road running through the
base at Dhekelia, and checkpoints and patrols imposed high-profile security
measures throughout both base areas.

The dilemma for the military authorities is that, while the strictly military
elements of the bases can be fairly well protected, many other facilities and
personnel are more vulnerable.

If the bases were to come under a standing terrorist threat and such draconian
security measures became necessary, the presence of the bases could become a hot
issue for the Cypriot government, which has hitherto - for many good reasons -
tolerated what in many ways is an extraordinary anomaly.

Were it not for the heat of the Mediterranean summer, the neat houses lining
streets with names like Waterloo Road and Kensington Avenue would look more like
an up-market council estate in Aylesbury than part of Cyprus. They have their
own shops, schools, churches, cinemas, clubs, beaches, police force and radio
stations. They are home to 4,000 British servicemen and their families. Unique
in the world, they were ceded by treaty as British sovereign territory when
Cyprus became independent in 1960.

If the colonial echoes are something Nicosia can live with, the link with
today's Western defence system is more of an embarrassment to non-aligned Cyprus
at times. Although the bases are supposed to be used for Britain's domestic
defence requirements, the lines are not always clear, and the monitoring and
base facilities are regarded as an important Nato asset.

They have been used for such worthy purposes as evacuating foreigners from
Teheran and Beirut, airlifts to Ethiopia, and ferrying observers to the Zimbabwe
elections. More controversially, they currently house two American Blackbird
reconnaissance planes monitoring the Sinai disengagement, and US Navy
helicopters used on the embassy run to East Beirut shelter there at night since
the raid on Libya.

The Cyprus government tolerates the bases for many reasons. They spend pounds 50
million a year locally and employ 3,700 Cypriots. They attract a large
proportion of the British visitors who made up 29 per cent of the 815,000
tourists who came last year. Some Cypriots see them as something of a bulwark
against further Turkish encroachment. They also provide valuable logistical
support for the United Nations forces in Cyprus.

But despite the opposition - and the Nicosia government's own claim that the
bases owe millions of pounds in rent, which London denies - their presence has
never been a serious election issue. But that could change if a permanent
terrorist threat meant the bases began seriously to disrupt Cypriot life.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 19, 1986

Spanish colonel shot / Attack by suspected Basque terrorist

BYLINE: From our Correspondent in Madrid

LENGTH: 156 words


A Spanish army colonel died in a hail of bullets last night in what seemed to be
a response by Basque terrorists to the Madrid Government's refusal to accept
proposals for negotiations to end violence in the region.

Colonel Jose Picatoste Gonzalez, aged 58, an artillery officer, had just left a
restaurant in Villareal, nine miles north of the Basque regional capital of
Vitoria, when four gunmen opened fire with automatic pistols.


The colonel became the 523rd victim of the Basque separatist group, Eta, since
it started its campaign 18 years ago to win independence for the Basque country.

The government in Madrid and the regional government headed by the Basque
Nationalist Party disagree over negotiation with Eta.

The party's president, Mr avier Arzalluz, said last weekend that his contacts
with Eta had revealed a greater willingness to negotiate on their part than on
the part of the Government.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 28, 1986

Basques in new bomb attack / Spanish terrorist group Eta stage San Sebastian
assault

BYLINE: From Our Correspondent

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: MADRID


Two civil guards were injured when their car was hit by a bomb planted by Basque
terrorists yesterday.

It was the second attempt in two days by the Basque separatist group, Eta, to
blow up vehicles carrying civil guards. On Tuesday, three civil guard jeeps
escorting a truck loaded with dynamite narrowly missed being blown up by an Eta
bomb planted at the roadside.


Yesterday's attack occurred on a motorway near San Sebastian, as the car
carrying the two men cross a bridge.

Meanwhile, France expelled two more alleged Basque terrorists to Spain under the
clampdown ordered last month to end the use of the French Basque country as a
springboard for separatist attacks.

One of the expelled men, Mr Fernando Eguilior, was alleged to be a member of Eta
who owned an import-export business in the town of Anglet. The second was
identified as Mr Jose Guridi, an alleged member of the Autonomous
Anti-Capitalist Commandos, a far-left offshoot of Eta, who had been sought by
the French police since 1984.

The expulsions brought to seven the number of alleged Basque terrorists handed
over to the Spanish authorities since the crackdown began.

In another anti-terrorist move, a court in the southwestern French city of Pau
ordered the extradition of three Portuguese alleged to be members of a Spanish
rightwing vigilante organisation, the anti-Terrorist Liberation Groups (GAL),
which has been responsible for the assassination of a number of Eta members.

The three men, who carried out attacks on two cafes in the French Basque country
in February, which left six people injured, are to be returned to Portugal,
where they are wanted on other charges.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 3, 1986

Jihad warns of new attacks to support Paris prisoners / Terrorists threaten
attacks unless comrades in French jails are freed

BYLINE: From CAMPBELL PAGE

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: PARIS


Middle Eastern terrorists who organised a series of bomb explosions in central
Paris between December 1985 and March this year are threatening new and even
deadlier attacks unless their comrades are released from French prisons.

In a document sent to the news agency AFP, the Committee of Solidarity with Arab
and Middle-Eastern Political Prisoners advised the French Government to allow
the quick release of three men.


They are Georges Ibdallah Ibrahim, believed to be the leader of the Armed
Revolutionary Lebanese Factions, who was sentenced to four years' imprisonment
in July; Waroujan Karbedian, who is serving a life sentence and was leader of
the Armenian commando responsible for an attack at Orly airport in 1983; and
Anis Nakkach, who is serving a life sentence for the attempted assassination of
the former Iranian Prime Minister, Dr Chapour Bakhtiar, in Paris in 1980.

The US, which fears Mr Ibrahim may get off lightly on further charges of alleged
involvement in diplomatic assassinations, has tried to ensure a vigorous
prosecution of the case against him.

The American ambassador and the family of the American military attache,
Lieutenant-Colonel Charles Ray, who was murdered in Paris in 1982, have sought
the status of civil plaintiffs, which would give them access to information
gathered by French authorities.

The newspaper Le Monde said yesterday that it had received another message from
the mysterious French Liberation Front, which accused the Government of a
spineless response to Arab terrorism.

An earlier statement from the organisation accused France of prostituting itself
the hope of securing the release of French hostages held in Lebanon.

There is speculation the group may represent a section within the police or
intelligence services which is committed to firmer action against Middle Eastern
terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 6, 1986

Police fill Paris after Metro Bomb / New wave of terrorist attacks feared in
France

BYLINE: From PAUL WEBSTER

LENGTH: 592 words

DATELINE: PARIS


More than 1,000 armed riot police were rushed in to guard key points in Paris
yesterday, as the capital prepared for a new wave of terrorist attacks after a
bomb failed to explode in a crowded express Metro train on Thursday night.

The Government was said to be 'extremely worried' about an expected wave of
attacks by a group demanding the release of three terrorists - an Iranian, a
Lebanese and an Armenian - being held in French gaols.


On Monday, the Committee of Solidarity for Arab and Middle East political
prisoners, which set off five explosions in Paris in December, February, and
March, sent a warning that it was preparing 'for an all-powerful attack. '

Previous bombs were in department stores and shopping malls, and killed three
people and injured about 60. Hundreds of extra police who were drafted into the
capital were stood down about a month ago.

This time, though, the Government's reaction is being considered against the
back-ground of Muslim extremist attacks on France's Unifil peacekeeping force in
Lebanon and threats to seven hostages being held by pro-Iranian terrorists. The
issues are loosely connected, and are testing the firmness of the Government in
face of terrorism.

The discovery of a bomb containing a dozen sticks of high explosive in a
rush-hour Metro train near the Gare de Lyon has fulfilled the worst fears,
though the detonator fired without setting off the bomb. Police said the
explosion could have killed hundreds of people and have caused the Metro tunnel
to collapse.

Late on Thursday night, the Prime Minister, Mr Jacques Chirac, called an
emergency meeting with the Interior Minister, Mr Charles Pasqua, the Security
Minister, Mr Robert Pandraud, and police chiefs.

Although no claims had been made by any terrorist organisation, it was believed
that the Prisoners Support Group was responsible, as the bomb was packed in a
bag from a shop attacked in February. It was not clear whether the Metro bomb
was intended as a warning, or whether the detonator misfired.

After the top-level meeting, official appeals were made to the public to be
vigilant and extra police were ordered to guard railway stations, the Metro, and
stores. But the meeting also discussed the possibility of releasing one of the
terrorists, George Abdullah Ibrahim, the presumed leader of the Lebanese
Revolutionary Armed Forces, who are believed to be behind the terrorist wave.

He has been held in prison since October, 1984, on suspicion of terrorist
activities, and could be released, as his four-year sentence justifies
remission. Yesterday, the Prime Minister's office confirmed that Ibrahim's case
was being reviewed but that 'no decision had yet been made. '

However, if he is released it would anger the Americans, as he is also a suspect
in connection with the murder of an American military attache and an Israeli
second secretary in 1982. Both killings were claimed by his organisation.

President Reagan has asked France to prosecute Ibrahim, but an examining
magistrate believes he has no case to answer and that the charges should be
dropped. The other two prisoners, the Iranian and the Armenian, are serving life
sentences for murder and cannot be set free unless pardoned by President
Francois Mitterrand.

But the Government is anxious not to show any sign of weakness, as any decision
will be seen in relation to future policy on the Unifil commitment in Lebanon,
which is dividing the ruling coalition following the murder of three French
soldiers this week.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            September 8 1986, Monday

Leading Article: They must not Succeed / The aftermath of the Istanbul and
Karachi terrorist attacks

SECTION: Issue 62557.

LENGTH: 747 words


General Vernon Walters, President Reagan's special envoy in the campaign against
international terrorism, set off rather too soon on his European tour. Last week
the Old World allies were shivering with apprehension over what the Americans
might do next. This week he might have found them more receptive.

The tragic end to the Karachi hijacking and the cruelty of the massacre in
Istanbul have happened just when the world seemed to be staging something of a
recovery from this disease of the later Twentieth Century. That it should have
suffered a relapse will come as no surprise. The ruthless fanatic, careless of
his own survival, is a difficult organism to eradicate or even deter. But one
can make life difficult for him and we have clearly not yet made it difficult
enough. What is to be done?


One thing that governments should not do is to lose their way in an orgy of
recrimination and dissent. This is sadly what has happened in the wake of both
events this weekend. That the Pakistan authorities have not yet perfected their
counter-terrorist techniques was obvious from the moment that the hijackers
boarded the plane. Nor can the authorities look back with any pleasure on what
followed thereafter.

Similar doubts surround the decision of the Pan American crew to abandon ship,
thus immobilising their Boeing and stranding the terrorists - but at the cost of
further destabilising the situation. Airlines like the Pakistan army and Karachi
airport need to look at their tactics again

To draw up precise 'do's' and 'don'ts' for crises which never quite repeat
themselves, is however to attempt the near-impossible. The method of attack by
the terrorists this time differed from that of most of their predecessors, the
hijackers driving across the tarmac disguised as security men. Security measures
at airports need to be comprehensive but the minds of those in charge need to be
flexible.

Moreover, for all the tragic consequences of the crime, the Pakistani government
and the Pan Am crew ensured at least that the gunmen failed to achieve their
main objective. That kind of determination must remain the central
characteristic of any counter-terrorist policy. Criticism of the kind heaped
upon Pakistan by Mr Rajiv Gandhi at the summit of the Non-Aligned Movement in
Harare, is therefore destructive and unhelpful.

Meanwhile in Jerusalem yesterday the Israeli Cabinet broke up in disarray,
divided by the murders in the Istanbul synagogue, at a time when they should be
united. If the coalition allows itself to be split by a crisis of this kind it
is awarding the terrorists half the victory they crave - and if the faltering
Middle East peace process is halted for similar reasons - their triumph is
total. In the end the only way to beat the gunmen is to ensure that they do not
succeed.

This is not to argue the case against retaliation should Israeli intelligence
identify those responsible. But the difficulty of doing that is notorious. Even
if it succeeds in doing so a government has to locate its quarry or punish its
hosts to deter them from offering shelter. The case for carrying out an
operation which is less than surgical is always more questionable. Colonel
Gadaffi has insisted on his innocence. He would wouldn't he - but in this
instance most people believe him. The assumption that the hand of Abu Nidal lies
behind one if not both of the outrages raises questions about the indirect
responsibility which must be borne by Syria among others - despite a newspaper
report yesterday that the Syrians were expelling his organization. Should the
Americans act against Syria? These are complex issues at a time when Washington
is once more trying to stitch together the threads of a Middle East peace
process.

One thing needed is a more coordinated approach against terrorism by the Third
World. Terrorism is not confined to the under-developed countries, as this
country knows to its costs. But it is their less sophisticated security screens
that terrorist find easiest to penetrate. Most countries need each other in the
campaign against terrorism and there should be much greater cooperation between
them. If the Non-Aligned Movement in Harare had spent more time discussing this
instead of losing themselves in their anti-American rhetoric or listening
(admittedly without much pleasure) to the strident Gadaffi, they might have won
more friends and influenced more people - and had a better conference too.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            September 8 1986, Monday

Why retaliation won't work / The aftermath of the Karachi and Istanbul terrorist
attacks

BYLINE: ROBERT FISK

SECTION: Issue 62557.

LENGTH: 1014 words

DATELINE: NICOSIA


The principal aim of the Middle East's latest hijackers and killer squads is to
shock the world into violent retaliation for their deeds, to involve the western
powers - or Israeli - in an operation of such devastating consequences that the
whole delicate structure of peace talks and moderation in the region is
destroyed.

So far, the murderers at Karachi and Istanbul, presumably working for the
renegade Palestinian Abu Nidal, are on their way to achieve their ends. They
have already brought forth a pledge of revenge from Shimon Peres, the Israeli
prime minister; concern among the Italians that the Americans are again going to
bomb Libya; and editorials on both sides of the Atlantic demanding 'massive
military retaliation'. That is precisely the gunmen's aim.


The equation is quite simple. There are more than enough desperate men - most of
them Palestinian - among the wretched camps of Beirut, Sidon, Tyre and in the
suburbs of Damascus and Amman to send on such terrible missions. Ever since the
Palestine Liberation Organization was driven from Beirut after being surrounded
by the Israelis, the suicidal killers have been an inevitable development.

The battle of Beirut in the summer of 1982 was the last opportunity the
Palestinians were given to fight for their cause against the Israelis. When that
ended in failure, the radical Palestinians were bound to take their guns into
the airport departure lounges, the vulnerable American airliners that
circumnavigate the globe and, most awful of all, into the places of worship of
their own fellow-Semites.

It is, of course, a natural emotion to call for revenge. Why should those who
sponsor such atrocities not be punished? The past 38 years in the Middle East,
however, suggest that history does not always share the same precepts of natural
justice. Indeed, it is difficult to recall a single instance when the principle
of retaliation produced anything more than further bloodshed.

Year after year, Israel has retaliated for the attacks made upon it or upon its
citizens by Palestinians. It has carried out hundreds of air raids on Lebanon,
made punitive raids into villages and towns, crossed more than 2,000 miles of
Mediterranean sea to bomb the PLO's headquarters in Tunis and even staged two
full-scale military invasions of Lebanon to rout out what Menachem Begin in 1978
described as 'the evil weed of the PLO'.

The Israelis presented all these operations as proof that military retaliation
works; but as a deterrent it has failed. In the years before Israel invaded
Lebanon in 1982 its air force regularly bombed the Palestinians in the Bekaa
Valley and at Damour and Sidon. The invasion that followed cost thousands of
lives - including those of more than 600 Israelis - but today the Israeli air
force is back again, routinely bombing the Palestinians in the Bekaa and in
Damour and Sidon, as before.

The Arabs, and some Israelis as well, ask a simple question: What was gained? As
preventive assaults, designed to delay Palestinian attacks, they may have had
limited success. But as a policy, they have proved hopeless - even if the
western world is still encouraged to think otherwise.

The moral argument about the retaliatory policy is more complex. If a nation
wants to retaliate for the slaughter at Rome and Vienna airports last Christmas,
it finds that one of the gunmen claims he wants to retaliate for the massacre of
Palestinians at Sabra and Chatila. Indeed one of them said he was in Chatila at
the time of the killings.

Yet Sabra and Chatila were themselves the work of pro-Israeli Lebanese
Christians who wished to revenge themselves upon Palestinians who had attacked
and murdered in their mountain villages and who contributed to the political
situation in which the Christian president-elect, Bashir Gemayel, had just been
killed.

The Palestinians had attacked those villages because they saw the Christians as
allies of the Israelis who now occupied their land in the West Bank and Gaza and
- in many Palestinian eyes - in the Israeli state itself. They were still
outraged by the much earlier massacre of Palestinians by Menachem Begin's Irgun
at the village of Deir Yassin in 1948. The Jews of Palestine remembered earlier
atrocities by Arabs.

The cycle goes back even further. But it can end only if one side or the other
can carry out a final, all-embracing retaliation which will correct all past
wrongs; and that, the Arabs say, is not going to happen. The murderers at
Karachi and Istanbul realize this almost as much as those who control them, be
they the followers of Abu Nidal or the still darker intelligence services - for
there are many of them within each Arab state - in Libya, Syria, Iran or
elsewhere.

In the end, the West is likely to reduce the number of such atrocities by still
further security measures and by catching those responsible before rather than
after they have committed their crimes.

The real battle against the gunmen, however, must inevitably be waged by their
own people. It is the Palestinians who will ultimately have to crush the Abu
Nidals of this world. To do that, they will need credibility and support from
the West. They will need a political settlement which accommodates the
aspirations of the Palestinians - whether or not they are PLO supporters - as
well as of the Israelis. To refuse them this is one of the aims of Abu Nidal's
killers; which is why they want to see the policy of retaliation continued.

The Americans believed they were entitled to bomb Libya last April as a result
of alleged Libyan involvement in the West Berlin disco bombing. To the Arabs so
opposed to America, however, the lesson was different; in their eyes, the
Tripoli air raids proved that the Americans had accepted their own declaration
of war. And that war is now on, a conflict without apparent end, and of cruel
and fearful dimensions. A further raid on Libya, or a bloody retaliatory strike
by Israel, is likely to provide proof to the cruel men behind these deeds that
they have been successful.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            September 8 1986, Monday

Premier Ozal warns Turkey may attack terrorist bases abroad

BYLINE: MARIO MODIANO

SECTION: Issue 62557.

LENGTH: 53 words

DATELINE: ISTANBUL


Mr Turgut Ozal, the Turkish Prime Minister, warned yesterday that Turkey might
strike against international terrorists in their own bases abroad (Mario Modiano
writes).

He suggested that the gunmen who carried out the Sabbath massacre at Istanbul's
synagogue might have come from Lebanon rather than Libya.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 9, 1986

West German bombers hit Cologne agency / Terrorist attack on
counter-intelligence headquarters

BYLINE: From VICTORIA PAGE

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: BONN


A powerful car bomb yesterday ripped through the facade of West Germany's
counter intelligence headquarters in the third terrorist attack in recent weeks
on federal agencies.

The Interior Minister, Mr Friedrich Zimmermann, said after the blast 'that
terrorists were seeking to cause havoc with counter-intelligence gathering.


The bomb went off in from of the Constitution Protection Agency in Cologne,
causing considerable damage. In addition to a huge hole in the building's
facade, the explosion virtually destroyed a red Volkswagen nearby.

The driver of a passing delivery van was slightly hurt by flying shrapnel, and
windows in the neighbourhood were blown out. Police put the damage at more than
250,000 marks (pounds 83,000).

Since the murder of the Munich industrialist, Karl Heinz Beckurts, in July, the
country has seen a revival of terrorist activity.

Yesterday's bombing stood out because it suggests that, despite heavy security,
federal agencies are vulnerable to attacks.

A documentation centre for resident aliens and a border police station, both in
the Cologne area, were also recently bombed.

A spokesman at the Federal Prosecutor's Office in Cologne speculated that the
Red Army Faction was responsible for the blast. Sympathisers of the terrorists'
violent struggle against the 'imperialism, capitalism and the military
industrial state' are thought to be in the hundreds.

Officials, such as the Interior Minister, have warned of the heightened strength
and size of the extreme radical left. The political opposition has criticised
the Government for over-emphasizing the danger from the left and underestimating
the danger from the right.

But the spate of bombings since Beckurts' murder does indicate a re-emergence of
terrorist activities, though not necessarily at the levels of the 1970s, when
the Red Army Faction, operating as the Baader-Meinhof gang, carried out a bloody
campaign of bombings and shootings.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 9, 1986

Watch on synagogues / Britain considers tighter security in wake of Istanbul
terrorist attack

BYLINE: By WALTER SCHWARZ, Religious affairs Correspondent

LENGTH: 146 words


Tighter security at British synagogues is being considered as a result of last
week's attack in Istanbul in which 21 Jewish worshippers were killed.

The massacre happened three weeks before the start of the jewish High Holidays,
when synagogues are filled to capacity for the Passover and the Jewish new year.


'Istanbul will serve to reinforce the very tight arrangements we already have,'
said Dr Jacob Gewirtz, executive director of the British Board of Deputies, who
has special charge of security.

Each synagogue already has vigilantes within the congregation who work with
police and Special Branch officers.

Rabbi Sidney Brichto, Director of the Union of Liberal and Progressive
Synagogues, said security in synagogues was much higher in Britain than in
Turkey, but he urged tighter measures to protect congregations before and after
services.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 9 1986, Tuesday

Talks on moves to defeat sea terror / International maritime committee security
measures to protect cruise liners from terrorist attacks proposed

BYLINE: STEWART TENDLER, Crime Reporter

SECTION: Issue 62558.

LENGTH: 321 words


Security measures to protect cruise liners from a repeat of the terrorist attack
on the Achille Lauro last year were presented in London yesterday to an
international maritime committee representing more than 80 countries.

If the measures are adopted, passenger ports and vessels could soon see the high
security controls now appearing at international airports and in aircraft.


The measures include calls for governments to appoint bodies to co-ordinate
national security programmes for their shipping, passenger ports and shipping
lines, and cruise operators and ports would need to appoint security officers to
organize a programme of protection.

Over the next few days, members of the International Maritime Organization's
safety committee will discuss measures aimed at thwarting attempts by
international terrorists to move their targets from land and air to the sea.

Once the measures are agreed they will be passed to the 129-member countries of
the organization as recommended security procedure, together with general
suggestions on their implementation.

Mr Christopher Horrocks, general secretary of the International Chamber of
Shipping, said a number of security measures had been taken by shipping lines in
recent years, even before the Achille Lauro incident.

Rear-Admiral William Kime, head of the United States delegation and a senior
member of the US coastguard, said: 'We feel there is enough of a threat for this
to go forward quickly. '

The measures, based on proposals by the United States, have been examined by
governments and shipping interests. This week a working group will consider the
responses, before finalizing a security package.

The measures include a call for screening to prevent weapons being taken on
board ships, the creation of secure areas round ships and terminal sections,
special lighting, alarms and security identification for all personnel.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 15, 1986

Catalan group 'set car bomb' / Spanish city of Barcelona terrorist attack

BYLINE: From our Correspondent

LENGTH: 176 words

DATELINE: BARCELONA


A terrorist group yesterday claimed responsibility for a car bomb attack in
Barcelona and said it was escalating its campaign against the city's attempt to
host the 1992 Olympic Games.

The claim was made by Terra Lliure, a group which seeks independence for the
north-eastern region of Catalonia and the Balearic Islands, and whose name in
Catalan means Free Fatherland.


A busload of Civil Guards narrowly escaped death on Saturday when a car
containing 451b of plastic explosive was detonated by remote control as they
passed down a street near the centre of Barcelona.

Three Civil Guards and two civilians, one of them a child, were injured by the
blast. It was the first car bomb attack in Barcelona and was at first thought to
have been carried out by the Basque terrorist group ETA.

Terra Lliure said in a communique that the attack was a 'qualitative jump' in
its activities and was only the first in a new campaign aimed at the security
forces.

It said that there was growing popular support for an independent Catalonia.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 16, 1986

False alarms mark jitters at bombings / Effects of terrorist attacks in Paris

BYLINE: By PAUL WEBSTER

LENGTH: 440 words

DATELINE: PARIS


The police had to answer hundreds of false bomb alerts yesterday as the impact
of the fourth explosion within a week sank in.

Another 1,000 extra armed policemen were rushed in to carry out spot searches in
public places, department stores, railway stations and crowded streets. The
sound of police and fire-engine sirens was heard throughout the day and several
buildings were evacuated after false alarms.


'It is an absolutely mad day,' a police spokesman said, adding that huge traffic
jams had worsened the problems of bomb-disposal squads.

The extra police presence recalled the worst days of the Algerian crisis and the
war against the underground OAS secret army. Activity at frontiers and airports,
where 1,000 soldiers have been called in to help the immigration officials, has
emphasised the Government's assertion that 'an underground war' is being fought.

The effect on public awareness was striking. The bomb-disposal squad was
inundated with calls that included 'explosives' on the Eiffel Tower, the Pont St
Michel, the Invalides air terminal, as well as department stores and the
headquarters of the Western European Union.

Many of the calls were mischievous, the police said, while others were about
such innocent objects as an abandoned jacket and a packet of ripe cheese.

Such public awareness, however, was the first sure sign that the capital has
taken to heart repeated appeals by the Prime Minister, Mr Jacques Chirac, for
vigilance - even though Paris has no standard procedure on how to react if a
bomb is found. In recent scares, members of the public have tried to defuse
suspect packages while in the underground a train was stopped between stations
after a bomb misfired a fortnight ago.

The most striking example was in the Renault pub on Sunday in the Champs
d'Elysees where an explosion killed a policeman, and injured another and the
head waiter who had carried the bomb out of the crowded restaurant.

The bomb in a cafe on Friday - after a similar explosion in the city-hall
post-office four days before - alerted Parisians to the danger of abandoned
parcels. At the Renault pub a waitress warned the head-waiter after a foreigner
carrying a bunch of red roses left suddenly leaving both his flowers and a
plastic bag on the restaurant chair.

The head-waiter picked up the parcel and took it to a basement 'in case it
exploded. ' He called in two passing policemen who hurried back to the basement
with him and all three were knocked down by the explosion. No attempt was made
to evacuate the restaurant which was shaken by the explosion lifting the floor
18 inches.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 16, 1986

Bombers take revenge on Paris: Terrorist attack at police headquarters kills one
and injures 51

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL PAGE

LENGTH: 1002 words

DATELINE: PARIS


Terrorists yesterday delivered a prompt challenge to the French Government's new
anti-terrorist measures when a bomb at police headquarters killed one person and
wounded 51 others, three of them seriously.

Police said that one unidentified victim died in hospital several hours after
the bomb shattered windows and sent plaster and masonry flying into the large
central courtyard of the ornate 19th century Prefecture de Police on the Ile de
la Cite.


Rescue services went on red alert after the bomb went off close to Notre Dame.
The injured - 31 of them employed at the prefecture, the other 20 members of the
public - were rushed to six city hospitals.

The Prime Minister, Mr Chirac, who has declared war on terrorism and promised
'draconian reprisals' against its instigators, learned of the latest attack when
lunching with Prince Rainier of Monaco. Mr Chirac later visited the prefecture
and was told that the bomb had been hidden under a bench near the counter.

An underground group demanding the release of three Arabs held in French gaols
claimed responsibility for the explosion. In Beirut, a telephone caller claiming
to speak for the Committee of Solidarity with Arab and Middle East Political
Prisoners asked an international news agency to 'inform (President) Mitterrand
and Chirac that the next operation will be at the Elysee (presidential palace).'

Yesterday's bomb was the fifth terrorist operation (four of them successful)
mounted in the capital in the last 12 days by the solidarity committee which is
pressing for the release of Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, leader of the Armed
Revolutionary Lebanese Fractions.

A man working at the police building said that the explosion rocked offices
throughout the complex. 'I heard a huge bang, followed by a short silence and
then there were dreadful screams and people running everywhere,' he said.

Police sealed the area around the headquarters, holding back thousands of
tourists and passers-by. Dozens of ambulances rushed to the site, using police
offices as emergency treatment rooms.

Police sources said that the bomb, which exploded early in the afternoon,
appeared to have been placed at the foot of a roof support column.

The solidarity committee has claimed responsibility for all recent attacks in
Paris, including the explosion in the Renault pub on the Champs Elysees on
Sunday which killed a policeman.

A statement later warned that the pub bombing was only the fourth in a new
series of operations. The committee was determined to continue its campaign,
with attacks becoming increasingly serious.

A similar warning was contained in another committee communique, issued just
before the Prime Minister announced new measures to seal France's borders
against terrorists and stamp out terrorism.

'Once again Mr Chirac and his ministers are turning to threats, and once again
the French people will pay the price for the treachery and lies of the two
leaders of the regime (the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic),'
the committee warned .

President Mitterrand said yesterday that the struggle against terrorism was a
matter for the entire country. Whoever attacks human life should be pursued
ruthlessly.

France's decision to demand entry visas from all visitors except citizens of the
EEC and Switzerland was criticised yesterday. The Austrian Foreign Minister, Mr
Peter Jancowitsh, whose country sends half a million visitors to France each
year, described the measure as being 'unparalleled in Europe for decades. '

The Swedish Foreign Minister, Mr Lennart Bodstrom, underlined the negative
aspect of restricting freedom of movement, while the Moroccan embassy here
understood the reason for the French action. The newspaper, Le Monde, however,
described the measure as draconian and an enormous step backwards.

The French business community and the tourist industry, the paper said, would be
among the first to press for the speedy removal of the new restrictions.

The EEC has responded to France's request for rapid consultations on terrorism
by fixing an emergency meeting of the community's interior ministers on
September 25 when practical measures will be discussed.

The secretary of the opposition Socialist Party, Mr Lionel Jospin, was worried
yesterday by the government's decision to use soldiers to stiffen border
security. 'In a democracy it is not a good thing to use the army for police
duties for a sustained period,' he said.

The leftwing newspaper, Liberation, interpreted the anti-terrorist package as
being more psychological than practical - to reassure the public without causing
panic. The rightwing Le Figaro praised Mr Chirac for adopting the stance of a
war leader.

Progressive opinion here has reservations about the authorities' powers to expel
foreigners without charges. A dozen people were rounded up last week and another
dozen yesterday.

There is also speculation about the covert actions which may be undertaken by
the intelligence services after Mr Chirac's promise of reprisals against the
instigators of terrorism. Mr Chirac said on Sunday that the foreign intelligence
service, the DGSE, which was responsible for the sinking of the Greenpeace
flagship last year, was in good shape under its new chief.

Libya, reacting to the Paris bomb, yesterday denied any links with guerrilla
violence. Tripoli and other Arab countries were the victims of a smear campaign,
the Libyan People's Bureau said.

Italy has asked France to extradite Abdallah, who is serving a four-year gaol
term for arms possession, Justice Ministry sources in Rome said last night.

His extradition was requested on September 8 so that he could be questioned
about alleged involvement in Middle East terror activities in Italy.

Two Lebanese linked Abdallah's group, Abdullah el-Mansquri and Josephine Abdo
Sarkis, were sentenced by a Trieste court in June last year to 16 and 15-year
gaol terms for taking part in terrorist activities.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 16 1986, Tuesday

Death as police HQ is bombed / Paris terrorist attack

BYLINE: From DIANA GEDDES

SECTION: Issue 62564.

LENGTH: 283 words

DATELINE: PARIS


Bombers struck again here yesterday, this time hitting a crowded vehicle licence
office in the heart of the Paris police headquarters on the Ille de la Cite,
killing one person and injuring 51, three seriously.

It was the fourth attack within the past week. A total of 112 people have been
injured, and three killed.


M Jacques Chirac, the Prime Minister, who had promised the previous night that
the terrorists and their 'manipulators' would be treated 'without pity',
immediately went to visit the scene of the latest explosion.

No one has yet claimed responsibility, but it is thought almost certainly to be
the work of the same group that has carried out most previous attacks in France
this year: the Committee for Solidarity with Middle Eastern and Arab Political
Prisoners.

The group, which is demanding the release of three convicted Arab terrorists
imprisoned in France, officially claimed responsibility yesterday for the Sunday
night attack against a cafe on the Champs Elysees.

A second dawn raid on homes of immigrants of Middle Eastern origin resulted in a
further 20 people being arrested and detained by the police yesterday.

The French authorities believe the Committee for Solidarity with Middle Eastern
and Arab Political Prisoners is a front for a Beirut-based, Marxist Maronite
terrorist group, the Lebanese Armed Revolutionary Factions (Farl), whose leader,
Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, has been imprisoned in France since 1984.

Visas for all foreigners of non-EEC or Swiss origin will become compulsory from
today.

The US, whose citizens will also be affected by the new visa regulations,
yesterday approved the French Government's decision.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 17, 1986

Paris police offer reward on terrorist bomb attacks

BYLINE: From CAMPBELL PAGE

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: PARIS


French police yesterday offered a reward of pounds 100,000 for useful
information about the terrorist bombings in Paris.

It was the first time such an offer has been made officially. Posters carrying
photographs of two brothers of the gaoled terrorist Georges Ibrahim Abdallah,
whose detention has provoked the bombings, will be distributed nationally.


Apart from fresh information, the best hope for the police is to catch a
terrorist either carrying a bomb to a target or in the area of an explosion.
Recent incidents suggest that the terrorists are leaving the scene only minutes
before an explosion.

Police are reportedly re-examining the background of a 26-year-old Lebanese
citizen, Nabil Dagher, who died when a bomb exploded in a shopping arcade in the
Champs Elyse in March. Dagher may have been visiting a Lebanese restaurant in
the arcade, but he had been questioned by police last year and was a distant
relative of Abdallah and of another member of Abdallah's terrorist organisation.

The man who died in the latest explosion on Monday, the fourth since September
8, was named yesterday as Dimitris Palamas, a 26-year-old Greek student. Two of
the 51 injured in the incident were still critical yesterday.

The explosion inside the police headquarters is seen in Paris as a brutal
challenge to the authorities. Newspaper headlines spoke of 'Paris in a panic'
and 'the 'diabolical routine' of explosions.

The Prime Minister, Mr Jacques Chirac, said Parisians were safe and defended the
credibility of his law-and-order government, but has decided to postpone an
official visit to Canada. He will still go to the United Nations in New York on
September 24.

A spokesman said Mr Chirac had to coordinate the anti-terrorist campaign and, as
Mayor of Paris, had a direct responsibility to Parisians. President Mitterrand
returns from an official visit to Indonesia on Friday.

The Solidarity committee for Arab Political Prisoners, which has claimed
responsibility for the bombs and is trying to force the release of Abdallah,
yesterday warned that it was more powerful than the security services. It
threatened to destroy 'the walls surrounding the palace of the King Mitterrand'.

Abdallah, who awaits a further trial in France, also faces extradition to Italy
in connection with terrorist activities there.

An unexplained explosion injured one person at a Paris restaurant yesterday, but
police said they had no reason to believe it was a terrorist bombing. Fire
officials and police said they did not know what caused the explosion at the La
Champagne restaurant at Place Clichy.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 19 1986, Friday

Chirac pledges vengeance for terror attacks / French Premier reacts to Paris
bombing attacks

BYLINE: From Our Own Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62567.

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: PARIS


M Jacques Chirac, the French Prime Minister, last night promised the nation that
'the assassins will not escape' after the recent wave of bombing attacks in
Paris.

In a televised address, he said: 'We will never give in to blackmail. You can
count on my resolution. France will overcome this test by remaining united and
determined. '


He assured his audience: 'All across the national territory security forces are
in action. I assure you the assassins will not escape from us. '

All measures would be put in hand 'to punish pitilessly the assassins and those
who manipulate them'.

He also paid tribute to the calm, courage and determination being shown by the
French people in the face of the bomb attacks.

M Chirac was speaking nearly 24 hours after the capital's sixth and most deadly
attack since the present wave began a fortnight ago. Five people died and 53
were injured, 11 seriously, when a bomb was thrown from a passing car at the
Tati clothing store near Montparnasse.

He made no mention of yesterday's assassination of the French military attache
in Beirut. That attack, combined with the recent attacks against French forces
serving in the UN peace-keeping force in southern Lebanon, has led the
Government to believe that not one but several terrorist groups with quite
different objectives are carrying out the Paris bombings.

Earlier in the day M Chirac attended the funeral of 24-year-old policeman who
died while trying to defuse a bomb at the Pub Renault Cafe on the Champs-Elysees
last week.

He called for 'calm, dignity and courage' in the face of the latest attacks.

Until now it has been thought that the release from prison in France of three
convicted Arab terrorists was the prime objective of a single group carrying out
the bombings.

The two men believed to have been responsible for throwing the bomb at the Tati
store have been identified by police after being recognized in photographs by
witnesses.

One of the two was named as Emile Ibrahim Abdullah, a brother of Georges Ibrahim
Abdullah, the imprisoned leader of the Lebanese Armed Revolutionary Factions,
whose release is among the bombers' chief demands.

The police remain convinced that another of Georges Abdullah's brothers, Robert,
was responsible for last week's attack at a cafeteria at La Defense.

The second man believed to have been involved in the Tati shop attack has been
named as Salim el-Khoury, a member of the Farl.

President Mitterrand, who has just finished a three-day official visit to
Indonesia, said in a televised interview from Indonesia on Wednesday night that
France was determined to 'fight the terrorists without mercy'.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 20 1986, Saturday

Mitterrand goes straight into bomb crisis talks / French President meets Premier
to discuss Paris terrorist attacks

BYLINE: From Our Own Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62568.

LENGTH: 388 words

DATELINE: PARIS


President Mitterrand returned from a trip to Indonesia last night and went
straight into talks on the Paris bombings with M Jacques Chirac, the Prime
Minister, and top ministers.

In a deliberate display of national unity in the face of the crisis, M Chirac
earlier called in the leaders of the five main political parties to discuss the
Government's anti-terrorist plans.


After the separate meetings, M Jean-Marie le Pen, leader of the extreme
right-wing National Front Party, said M Chirac had told him that all public
demonstrations are to be banned. M le Pen had planned a public demonstration
next Monday to protest against the bombings.

The Prime Minister's Office also announced that the Government is ready to
ratify the European convention on the repression of terrorism. It was signed at
Strasbourg in 1977 by 20 members of the Council of Europe, but has never been
ratified by France, Greece, Malta or Ireland.

The convention rejects the possibility of political motivation for any serious
terrorist act, so facilitating the extradition of terrorists.

Meanwhile, new 'wanted' posters were circulated to police forces throughout
France yesterday bearing the photographs of four of the brothers of Georges
Ibrahim Abdullah, imprisoned leader of the Lebanese Armed Revolutionary Faction,
and of five other members of the terrorist group, which is believed to be behind
the bomb attacks.

They are named as: Maurice, Emile, Robert and Joseph Ibrahim Abdullah; Salim
al-Khoury; and four women - Jacqueline Esber, Caroline Esber al-Bitar, Fayrouz
Fayeh Daher and Ferial Daber.

A Beirut-based terrorist group, calling itself the Anti-Imperialist
International Brigades, has claimed responsibility for the assassination of the
French military attache in Beirut on Thursday.

It threatened to assassinate President Mitterrand and M Chirac as well as 'all
French diplomats' unless three Arab terrorists imprisoned in France are
released.

In a message to the offices of AFP, the group said: 'All French diplomats will
be our revolutionaries' target until Waroujan Garbidjian, Georges Ibrahim
Abdullah and Anis Naccache and their comrades are released.

'The fate of Mitterrand and Chirac will be the same as that of the military
attache executed by our revolutionaries in Beirut east. '

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 22, 1986

Heathrow 'target' / Security services warned of imminent terrorist attack on US
airliner

BYLINE: By PAUL BROWN

LENGTH: 129 words


Security services at Heathrow Airport, London, have been warned of an imminent
terrorist attack on an American airliner.

With the bombings in Paris and an expected retaliation for the British role in
the US attack on Libya, Heathrow is on maximum alert. The tip-off has come from
the Middle East.


Israeli agents say that the other possible target is the Charles de Gaulle
Airport outside Paris. Heathrow security has been told to pay special attention
to black or grey Samsonite suitcases.

The latest warning follows a series of pieces of information about groups of
terrorists operating in Europe. In June three groups of terrorists travelling on
false Libyan or Tunisian passports were said to be preparing to attack American
or Israeli airlines.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 24 1986, Wednesday

Israelis attack 'terror base' in south Lebanon

BYLINE: From IAN MURRAY

SECTION: Issue 62571.

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


Israeli pilots reported accurate hits yesterday afternoon when they returned
from a raid on what was described by a military spokesman as 'a mountaintop
terrorist base' east of the town of Damur, about 10 miles south of Beirut.

The spokesman said the targets were a long way from populated areas and were
used as a launching base for raids. One of the buildings was said to belong to
the Abu Moussa faction of Fatah.


The raid does not appear to be connected with an expected reprisal for the
bombing of a synagogue in Istanbul earlier this month, which was blamed on the
radical Abu Nidal group. Nor does it seem to have anything to do with the
current tension along the Lebanese border, which is claimed here to be caused by
Shia militia.

The attack is more likely to be part of the Israeli policy laid down by Mr
Yitzhak Rabin, the Defence Minister, of attacking suspected terrorist bases
'anywhere and at any time'.

It is noteworthy that the official statement confirming the raid went out of its
way to emphasize that no civilians should have been involved. This follows
strong criticism of Israel for earlier raids in which civilans have been killed.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 26, 1986

Paris denies contact with Lebanese terror group / France terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL PAGE

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: PARIS


The French Government yesterday denied that it had ever been in contact with the
terrorist group responsible for recent attacks in Paris, or that it had
contemplated arranging an early release for the group's alleged leader, Georges
Ibrahim Abdallah, who is serving a four-year sentence in a French gaol.

Mr Denis Baudouin, spokesman for the Prime Minster, Mr Jacques Shirac, said the
Government had not negotiated with members of Farl, the Armed Revolutionary
Lebanese Fraction.


'Jacques Chirac said yesterday at the United Nations and we can never repeat it
enough, that there have never been, apart from official contacts with official
bodies, any contact through unofficial envoys,' Mr Baudouin said. This week the
magazine Canard Enchaine reported that a member of the French intelligence
service met a Farl envoy in Madrid in May. Negotiations, the magazine said,
secured a five-month respite in the terrorist attacks in France because the
terrorists expected Abdallah to be released.

Mr Baudouin added: 'Every time we have had an opportunity of explaining our
position, as with the Algerians, we have taken it by pointing out that we are
allowing justice to take its course. '

At a press conference in New York on Tuesday, Mr Chirac said: 'I deny in the
most formal and categorical manner reports of a highly dubious origin according
to which there were discussions between the Government and terrorists groups or
intermediaries. '

Mr Chirac said he was 'allergic' to blackmail and to terrorism. 'We have never
for one moment dreamed of withdrawing Mr Abdallah from the course of justice.
Nothing can make me change my mind in this respect - and above all the use of
bombs. '

The Interior Minister, Mr Charles Pasqua, said in a radio interview that there
was no question of negotiating with terrorists. He had one simple message: 'The
terrorists will stay in prison, there will be no compromise. '

The Government yesterday also clarified the role of the Greek Catholic prelate,
Monsignor Hilarion Capucci, who met Abdallah in prison on Monday, saying he had
done so at his own request and was not engaged on any mission for the
authorities.

Police yesterday detained an extreme leftwing militant, Mr Frederic Oriach, as
he prepared to hold a hurriedly-called news conference in the Luxembourg Gardens
in Paris.

Witnesses said police drove him off in a car.

Four French people arrested in Paris on Wednesday as part of investigations into
the recent wave of bombings were stated by police sources to be associated with
Mr Oriach, a pro-Palestinian militant who was released from gaol earlier this
year and was later reported to have spent some time in Syria.

The Foreign Secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe, said yesterday at the UN in New York
that the Soviet Union had been shifting its position on terrorism and the topic
would be explored by British and Soviet officials.

He said the issue was discussed at a meeting on Tuesday with his Soviet
counterpart, Mr Eduard Shevardnadze. 'I was taning up the shift, I think, in the
Soviet position or attitude towards terrorism that has been taking place for
some time,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 29, 1986

West German terrorists renew attacks / Bomb explosions in Cologne and West
Berlin

BYLINE: From ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 566 words

DATELINE: BONN


Leftwing terrorists yesterday stepped up their bombing campaign with an attack
on the Lufthansa headquarters in Cologne, while in West Berlin a senior official
responsible for foreigners was shot in both legs outside his home.

The Revolutionary Cells, an offspring of the Red Army faction terrorist group,
claimed responsibility for the explosion at the Lufthansa building, which caused
pounds 35,000-worth of damage but injured no one.


The attack followed the airline's collaboration in the deportation of
asylum-seekers and its involvement in so-called sex tours to Asian countries,
the terrorists said.

West Berlin police also suspected terrorist involvement in the shooting of Mr
Harald Hollenberg, director of the city's Registration of Foreign Nationals
department.

The Berlin attack was believed to have been carried out by two men and a woman,
who first escaped on bicycles and then changed to a Volkswagen which was later
found burning nearby in a quiet street near the city's border with East Germany.

West German authorities have recently faced a series of arson and bomb attacks
on public buildings and companies, as well as the regular felling of electricity
pylons which antinuclear activists are suspected of carrying out.

The Cabinet will discuss today a fresh set of anti-terrorist measures which will
categorise saboteurs of electricity supplies as members of a 'terrorist
organisation. ' Stiffer prison sentences will be handed down. So far this year
more than 80 such attacks have been carried out.

In response to more serious terrorist crimes - such as the killing in Bonn this
month of Gerold von Braumuehl, a senior Foreign Ministry official - the
Government plans to rush through legislation allowing partial or full immunity
from prosecution to former terrorists who turn state's evidence.

Introducing the so-called 'supergrass,' which is alien to the German penal code,
has been controversial within the conservative liberal coalition itself. The
concept has been rejected by the opposition Social Democrats, who themselves
raised and dropped the idea when in power in the late 1970s at the height of
Baader-Meinhof terrorism.

The SPD and the Greens maintain that the supergrass idea has failed
conspicuously in other West European countries, notably in Britain and Italy. By
rushing through legislation before Christmas the Government was panicking
without properly considering the repercussions of such a wide-ranging change to
the country's legal system.

However, despite continuing objections from the liberal Free Democrats in the
government coalition, who only reluctantly gave their support to the supergrass
concept for a limited period of two-years, the Cabinet is expected to approve
the measure.

Government ministers argue that the use of terrorists turning state's evidence,
including murderers, will help to penetrate the terrorist network, and that 'all
means are justified in dealing with the new dimension of terrorism. '

But the Social Democrats maintain that the state's association with 'criminals
and murderers' would corrupt the system of justice and not help significantly to
track down the 'handful of professional killers' that make up the terrorists'
hard core.

The Greens have called on imprisoned Baader-Meinhof terrorists to express their
disapproval of the new wave of terror attacks.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 29 1986, Wednesday

Parliament: Anti-terror meeting attacked by Healey / Foreign affairs

SECTION: Issue 62601.

LENGTH: 279 words


The outcome of the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg
yesterday was deplorable, Mr Denis Healey, chief Opposition spokesman on Foreign
and Commonwealth Affairs, told the Commons when he attacked the response of the
meeting on terrorism.

Conservative backbenchers also strongly criticized the attitude of Britain's
European partners.


Although Community ministers had agreed at earlier meetings to adopt concerted
action against terrorism, half of the foreign ministers had not bothered to turn
up yesterday and none of them had supported the proposals by Sir Geoffrey Howe,
the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Mr Healey said.

In a statement on the meeting, Sir Geoffrey Howe, said he had given his
colleagues a full briefing on the Hindawi case and had presented them with the
conclusive evidence of Syrian official involvement.

'They were both impressed and disturbed. ' With the sole exception of Greece,
'all ministers expressed their collective sense of outrage that the agencies of
a state had been involved in such an incident. They undertook that no partner
would accept as a diplomat any of the Syrians who had been expelled from London.

'Yesterday's proceedings went some way, but by no means as far as the House
would have wished, to send the Syrian Government a clear message that their
behaviour has been intolerable', he said.

Syria was one of the countries for which the Community's Mediterranean Financial
Protocols expired next Saturday. Renewal required unanimity. There could be no
question of the UK agreeing to further financial assistance for Syria in present
circumstances.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 29 1986, Wednesday

Parliament: Anti-terror meeting attacked by Healey / Foreign affairs

SECTION: Issue 62601.

LENGTH: 279 words


The outcome of the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg
yesterday was deplorable, Mr Denis Healey, chief Opposition spokesman on Foreign
and Commonwealth Affairs, told the Commons when he attacked the response of the
meeting on terrorism.

Conservative backbenchers also strongly criticized the attitude of Britain's
European partners.


Although Community ministers had agreed at earlier meetings to adopt concerted
action against terrorism, half of the foreign ministers had not bothered to turn
up yesterday and none of them had supported the proposals by Sir Geoffrey Howe,
the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Mr Healey said.

In a statement on the meeting, Sir Geoffrey Howe, said he had given his
colleagues a full briefing on the Hindawi case and had presented them with the
conclusive evidence of Syrian official involvement.

'They were both impressed and disturbed. ' With the sole exception of Greece,
'all ministers expressed their collective sense of outrage that the agencies of
a state had been involved in such an incident. They undertook that no partner
would accept as a diplomat any of the Syrians who had been expelled from London.

'Yesterday's proceedings went some way, but by no means as far as the House
would have wished, to send the Syrian Government a clear message that their
behaviour has been intolerable', he said.

Syria was one of the countries for which the Community's Mediterranean Financial
Protocols expired next Saturday. Renewal required unanimity. There could be no
question of the UK agreeing to further financial assistance for Syria in present
circumstances.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 15 1986, Saturday

Sri Lanka attacks Asia's failure to agree terror policy

BYLINE: From MICHAEL HAMLYN

SECTION: Issue 62616.

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: BANGALORE


A stinging attack on the failure of the South Asian nations to agree on what
constitutes terrorism, and an even more surprising assault on its comfortable
procedural assumptions, have come from the Sri Lankan delegation at the
seven-nation meeting of the South Asian Association for Regional Co-operation
(SAARC).

The meeting, which will culminate in a summit gathering as heads of state and
government arrive here today, has been shaken by Sri Lankan vehemence on
terrorism. Mr W. T. Jayesinghe, the Foreign Secretary, told his colleagues that
he felt bound to 'stress our disappointment' at the work of an expert group on
terrorism, set up at Sri Lanka's insistence at the first SAARC summit in
Bangladesh a year ago.


'My delegation views with regret the lack of progress,' he said, 'on finalizing
a list of offences which are to be regarded as terroristic, and which for the
purposes of extradition are to be regarded as political. '

Mr Jayesinghe added that a failure to agree on terrorism would be the first
instance when the collective spirit of SAARC was tested and found wanting. 'It
will be a bad precedent and a blow, a grevous one at that, to SAARC'S prospects
elsewhere,' he said.

Mr Jayesinghe also complained about the plethora of grand-sounding declarations
associated with SAARC. He insisted that to launch further into a restatement of
the basic aims of the organization in another Bangalore Declaration will be 'to
devalue the currency of SAARC summitry', adding that historians 'delving through
the referential plethora' may be faced with the basic question: What was SAARC?
'Repetition alone may lead them to the answer that it was nothing,' he said.

The meeting in Bangalore, the garden city of India, is being held under the
threat of a serious chill in relations between India and Pakistan, which has
culminated in massive troop movements by India on the border.

Pakistan officials have said privately that a quarter of a million Indian troops
are involved in exercises close to the international frontier, and Mr Abdus
Sattar, the Pakistani Foreign Secretary, told a press conference yesterday:
'When you hear the quantum of troops involved you will see that it cannot but
generate a sense of unease. '

Mr Sattar also indicated that India was in breach of an agreement to notify
Pakistan of any major exercises, although he said he had been assured that India
would fulfil the unwritten understanding to do so.

Mr Sattar insisted, however, that no shadow was being cast on the proceedings by
Indo-Pakistan relations, and that there were good expectations from the brief
talks that the two prime ministers, Mr Rajiv Gandhi and Mr M. K. Junejo, have
over the weekend.

The SAARC conference is expected to end with the establishment of a permanent
secretariat based in Nepal, and with a Bangladeshi Secretary-General, Mr Abul
Ahsan, the present Ambassador to Pakistan. There will be three directors under
him.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 15 1986, Saturday

Sri Lanka attacks Asia's failure to agree terror policy

BYLINE: From MICHAEL HAMLYN

SECTION: Issue 62616.

LENGTH: 495 words

DATELINE: BANGALORE


A stinging attack on the failure of the South Asian nations to agree on what
constitutes terrorism, and an even more surprising assault on its comfortable
procedural assumptions, have come from the Sri Lankan delegation at the
seven-nation meeting of the South Asian Association for Regional Co-operation
(SAARC).

The meeting, which will culminate in a summit gathering as heads of state and
government arrive here today, has been shaken by Sri Lankan vehemence on
terrorism. Mr W. T. Jayesinghe, the Foreign Secretary, told his colleagues that
he felt bound to 'stress our disappointment' at the work of an expert group on
terrorism, set up at Sri Lanka's insistence at the first SAARC summit in
Bangladesh a year ago.


'My delegation views with regret the lack of progress,' he said, 'on finalizing
a list of offences which are to be regarded as terroristic, and which for the
purposes of extradition are to be regarded as political. '

Mr Jayesinghe added that a failure to agree on terrorism would be the first
instance when the collective spirit of SAARC was tested and found wanting. 'It
will be a bad precedent and a blow, a grevous one at that, to SAARC'S prospects
elsewhere,' he said.

Mr Jayesinghe also complained about the plethora of grand-sounding declarations
associated with SAARC. He insisted that to launch further into a restatement of
the basic aims of the organization in another Bangalore Declaration will be 'to
devalue the currency of SAARC summitry', adding that historians 'delving through
the referential plethora' may be faced with the basic question: What was SAARC?
'Repetition alone may lead them to the answer that it was nothing,' he said.

The meeting in Bangalore, the garden city of India, is being held under the
threat of a serious chill in relations between India and Pakistan, which has
culminated in massive troop movements by India on the border.

Pakistan officials have said privately that a quarter of a million Indian troops
are involved in exercises close to the international frontier, and Mr Abdus
Sattar, the Pakistani Foreign Secretary, told a press conference yesterday:
'When you hear the quantum of troops involved you will see that it cannot but
generate a sense of unease. '

Mr Sattar also indicated that India was in breach of an agreement to notify
Pakistan of any major exercises, although he said he had been assured that India
would fulfil the unwritten understanding to do so.

Mr Sattar insisted, however, that no shadow was being cast on the proceedings by
Indo-Pakistan relations, and that there were good expectations from the brief
talks that the two prime ministers, Mr Rajiv Gandhi and Mr M. K. Junejo, have
over the weekend.

The SAARC conference is expected to end with the establishment of a permanent
secretariat based in Nepal, and with a Bangladeshi Secretary-General, Mr Abul
Ahsan, the present Ambassador to Pakistan. There will be three directors under
him.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 17, 1986

The sound and the flurry / 1812 Overture rehearsal sparks fears of terrorist
attack in Swansea

LENGTH: 254 words


Police feared a classic terrorist attack when a series of 999 calls reported
explosions, bright flashes, and smoke coming from the foyer of Swansea's
Brangwyn Hall.

But when police and a fire engine arrived they found musicians rehearsing
Tchaikovsky's 1812 Overture against a background of too-fortissimo cannon fire
sound effects.


Mrs Brenda Rees, who lives opposite the hall, said she thought something
terrible had happened, after her kitchen was shaken by 'an almighty explosion. '

'We saw flashes through the windows of the Brangwyn and thought it was a bomb,
because there have been scares there before. I told the police to get down here
right away. It was much too realistic. I don't think Tchaikovsky meant this sort
of thing to happen. '

Another neighbour, Mrs Gill O'Shea, said her whole house shook. 'I thought it
was a bomb as well, but my husband is a musician and he recognised the 1812.'

Swansea City Council director of music, Mr John Fussell, said the din was extra
loud because theatrical firecrackers had been placed in dustbins to magnify the
sound.

The bins were put in the foyer for safety and to avoid any smoke getting into
the auditorium and spoiling the performance by the Welsh Philharmonic Orchestra
and two brass bands.

Mr Griff Harries, the orchestra's administrator, apologised to householders and
sent members of staff to tour the area. 'We reassured them that if they heard
more bangs and flashes they should not worry. We didn't realise it was so loud.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 30, 1986

ETA strikes near King / Spanish terrorist attack

BYLINE: From JANE WALKER

LENGTH: 491 words

DATELINE: MADRID


A daring terrorist attack yesterday badly damaged a hotel less than 500 yards
from a Pyrenees mountain chalet owned by King Juan Carlos. The Spanish royal
family, as well as that of ex-King Constantine of Greece, were all in the ski
resort of Baqueira-Beret when the bomb went off.

The device, consisting of about 5lb of plastic explosives, was believed to have
been hidden behind a plumber's inspection cover on the third floor of the
166-room Montarto Hotel. It blew a 12-inch hole in an outside wall, causing
damage estimated at around pounds 15,000. Although the hotel was full with
skiers, as well as royal staff and bodyguards, there were no casualties.


The chalet where King Juan Carlos, Queen Sofia and their three children normally
spend New Year's Eve is 200 yards from the hotel. The king, queen and Crown
Prince Felipe, who were sleeping at the time of the 5.50 am explosion, later
went out on the slopes.

A caller claiming to represent the Basque terrorist organisation ETA telephoned
the hotel, the local hospital and the fire brigade 35 minutes before the blast
warned that a bomb had been planted.

Hotel staff said that they had been able to evacuate most of the guests before
the blast.

Police do not believe that the terrorists planned a serious attempt on the life
of the king or his family, but merely wanted to give a demonstration of their
capabilities. Ten years ago another ETA bomb was defused near the kings summer
home in Majorca.

Yesterday's attack was the second by ETA against a Spanish tourist hotel in less
than a week. On Christmas night, a bomb hidden in a suitcase exploded in a
Madrid hotel, causing serious damage, but no injuries.

At the weekend, two showrooms selling French cars were wrecked near Bilbao in
two almost simultaneous explosions.

The Madrid bombing and those of the car showrooms were all part of ETA's
campaign against French interests in Spain as a protest at the French
Government's decision to co-operate with Madrid in the fight against the
terrorist organisation.

Meanwhile, Spanish police announced the detention of members of two ETA commando
units believed to have been operating within the Basque country. Nine men are
being held for questioning.

The first group, of five men, were detained in San Sebastian as they were
preparing to bomb another French-owned car salesroom.

Police discovered a large quantity of arms, ammunition, explosives and documents
which they said showed that the group was planning further attacks against
security forces and an unnamed leading Basque Socialist.

Civil guards who arrested the second group in the nearby town of Lasarte
described the capture as important. A spokesman said: 'They have been involved
in numerous assassinations and were in possession of a large arsenal. '

Two of the men have been sent to Madrid for further questioning. The others
remain in custody in the Basque country.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 31 1986, Wednesday

Fireman killed in terrorist attack

SECTION: Issue 62653.

LENGTH: 294 words


Part-time firemen were shocked yesterday when they discovered they had removed
the body of a colleague from an Ulster public house attacked by terrorists.

Another part-time fireman was injured in the bomb blast after an attempted armed
robbery.


Mr Liam McShane, aged 24, and Mr Christopher Glass had both been missing on the
1am call-out at Maghera, Co Londonderry.

They had been clearing up after closing time at the Central Bar in the main
street, where Mr Glass was a co-owner and Mr McShane helped out occasionally.

Three or four men knocked at the locked front door, asked to buy beer and
produced pistols once inside.

They ushered Mr Glass to the safe and knocked him unconscious with a pistol butt
when they found it was empty. As they fled they planted a bomb, which exploded
moments later.

Mr McShane died instantly and Mr Glass suffered facial and arm burns, but his
condition is not serious.

The explosion startled a fierce fire. It destroyed the public house, but was was
prevented from reaching neighbouring houses, which were evacuated for some
hours.

The injured man and Mr McShane's body were both taken to the Mid-Ulster
Hospital, where the dead man's wife was on night duty as a nurse. The couple had
a one-year-old daughter.

Mr McShane was the 62nd person to die in terrorist violence in Northern Ireland
this year, but the Provisional IRA denied that any of its units were involved in
the attack. It blamed 'loyalists'.

Mr Jim McGuigan, the leader of the Maghera firemen, said Mr McShane was 'a very
lively lad, very jolly and popular who will be sadly missed in the town'.

They had feared the worst when the two men had not arrived for the call-out and
when they heard that one man was trapped.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 12 1987, Thursday

Families of Israeli terrorist attack victims petition Jerusalem court against
possibility of prisoner exchange for Lebanon hostages

BYLINE: DAVID BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Issue 62690.

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM


The families of seven Israelis killed in terrorist attacks yesterday petitioned
the Supreme Court in Jerusalem for an order requiring the Government to show
cause why it should not desist from exchanging terrorists imprisoned in Israel
for prisoners of war or hostages in Lebanon (David Bernstein writes).

Bearing placards with enlarged photographs of their murdered relatives, the
petitioners spearheaded a large demonstration outside the courts before they
submitted their petition.


'We demand the death penalty for all terrorists,' shouted one distraught woman.
'We want revenge - just as they murdered, so will we. ' Others threatened to
kill any terrorists who were freed, and to go into Arab villages and slaughter
their inhabitants.

The demonstrators burst past the sole policeman guarding the entrance to the
court and poured into the courtroom where the president of the Supreme Court
Justice Meir Shamgar, and two colleagues were hearing a case.

'The judges of Israel are liars,' they yelled. 'There is no law in Israel - we
are the law. The blood of our children has been split, and the Government wants
to release the terrorist who killed them. '

The three startled judges eventually made their way back to their offices
through the demonstrators, who went on to submit their petition in the
registrar's office.

In their petition, they warned against the 'dangerous precedent' that would be
set if the Government gave in to American pressure and released jailed
terrorists in return for American citizens kidnapped in Beirut.

The petition is to be heard today by a panel of three judges.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 23 1987, Thursday

Growing violence in Sri Lanka: Aims behind the Tamil terror attacks

BYLINE: From MICHAEL HAMLYN

SECTION: Issue 62750.

LENGTH: 1336 words

DATELINE: COLOMBO


The series of terrorist atrocities in Sri Lanka which has left around 250 people
dead in the past few days has two objectives, according to a senior minister.

Mr Lalith Athulathmudali, the Minister for National Security, explained,
yesterday that the terrorists' aim was first to weaken the Government and thus
gain concessions in any subsequent negotiations. 'Secondly, they want to create
a backlash,' he said. 'That would so damage the reputation of the Sri Lankan
Government, that people would begin to say that the two communities can no more
live together. ' Separation would then be the only answer.


The response to the killing of the past few days has been confined to action by
the armed forces, such as yesterday's air raid on targets in the north of the
island. Disciplined action by the armed forces and police and the immediate
imposition of curfews in the affected areas so far has prevented anything like
the communal violence of July 1983.

'People also have a greater understanding,' Mr Athulathumdali added.

Certainly, the armed forces have shown much better discipline than in 1983 when
they simply turned a blind eye to what was going on. Afterwards a series of
bloody reprisals on innocent Tamil villagers, often carried out against orders,
blackened the name of the Sri Lankan forces. But this problem has largely been
overcome, the authorities claim.

The strength of the Army has grown from less than 10,000, mainly experienced in
ceremonial parades, to almost 40,000, the majority of whom have seen action
against the Tamil separatist rebels. Some have been trained in Pakistan, with a
few officers attending courses in India.

Trouble between the Tamils, who are mainly Hindu and form about one-fifth of the
island's population, and the majority Sinhalese who are mainly Buddist began at
independence in 1948.

British colonialists had employed large numbers of the minority race, who
learned English enthusiastically and made an industry out of government service.
The Tamils preponderance in education and government was resented by the
Sinhalese.

Both races came to the island from India, though there is considerable dispute
about who came first. The Tamils are of Dravidian, South Indian, stock, smaller,
darker nad round-headed. The Sinhalese claim descent from the Aryans of
north-east India.

But one of the first acts of the independent Government was to disenfranchise
those Tamils who came most recently from India, brought by the British to work
as coolies in the tea plantations.

Then, despite an entrenched clause in the constitution left by the British the
Government, dominated by the majority, moved in other ways against the minority.
A new constitution was drawn up without the entrenched clause, and a single
language formula was framed. The only official language was to be Sinhala.

From now on Tamils found it more and more difficult to enter the armed forces,
for example, or other government services because of the Sinhala-only
requirement.

Then the Tamil dominance in education was ended by creating regional
differential requirements for university places which operated to their
disadvantages.

Feeling themselves under serious attack, the Tamils demanded the kind of
protection a minority community gains from a federal system of government with a
good deal of regional autonomy. They formed a Federal Party but their
aspirations were constantly frustrated.

Had the Tamils thrown themselves more whole-heartedly into the new society, and
not looked so often at the massive Tamil community in south India, perhaps the
Sinhalese would not have been so fearful themselves.

But the Sinhalese reacted swamping by the 50 million Tamils in Madras. They
feared for their own cultural identity, and for their religion, which had
already been made almost distinct in India, the land of its birth, by Hinduism.

No measure of federalism was granted. A pact between the then Prime Minister, Mr
SWRD Bandaranaike, and the Tamil leader, Mr SJV Chelvanayagam, which might have
settled the differences between the two races was upset by an Opposition
politician, Mr JR Jayewardene, who conducted a massive campaign against it.

Now that Mr Jayewardene is the country's President, he is faced with much the
same kind of Opposition hostility to his proposals.

Frustrated, the Tamils turned to total separation as the answer. The Federal
Party became the Tamil United Liberation Front, which advocated the
establishment of a separate Tamil state in the north and east of the country.

The young men, who in a number of cases had found themselves deprived of
university entrance, turned to the gun to enforce their demands. The Mayor of
Jaffna and other Tamil politicians were their early targets. But they soon
turned against the Sri Lankan police and armed forces, who came to be regarded
as an army of occupation in the north.

It was the death of 13 soldiers in a mine explosion in July 1983 that sparked
the mass killing, loothing and burning of Tamils throughout the rest of the
country. The violence, though at first no doubt spontaneous, was soon plainly
organized by Sinhala chauvinists, who saw this as the opportunity to rid
themselves for ever of the Tamil menace.

A flood of Tamil refugees to the north and east and more especially to India
became a fertile recruiting ground for armed militants, and the terror groups
began to proliferate.

Six months after the July 1983 violence, the Indian Government provided the
driving force for a round table conference to discuss constitutional changes
which could satisfy Tamil aspirations. A document drawn up between Indian envoys
and the Sri Lankan, known as Annexure 'C', became the focus of these
discussions, which lasted virtually throughout 1984.

Since then there have been further attempts under India's good offices to refine
these proposals and to persuade Mr Jayewardene's Government to yield more and
more to the Tamils.

The Tamils have made a particular issue of the need to link the northern
province in which the Tamils have an overwhemling majority with the eastern
province in which, thanks to a progressive settlement policy by Sinhalese
farmers, they are in a minority. This has been a sticking point wity the
Sinhalese too, who see such a linkage as only a short step from the creation of
separate state.

Talks last year went a long way towards refining proposals about how much power
should be devolved from the central Government to provincial assemblies.
Finally, on December 19 two Indian ministers persuaded Mr Jayewardene to agree
to the dismemberment of the eastern province by the removal of the Ampara
electorate, where most of the Sinhalese of the province live. This would restore
the Tamils to the majority position in the province, and would answer their
fears of domination in their own homeland.

Together with proposals for some institutional linkage, and the promise of a
referendum on full linkage after some time, the December 19 package was the most
hopeful sign yet that a political solution was possible.

However, the package was roundly opposed by many Sinhalese, who objected to the
frustration of 40 years of settlement in the province, and by some Muslims who
form the third and smallest community in the east. In an undivided province they
could have held the balance and formed part of any provincial government. Under
the December 19 proposals they would be condemned to permanent domination by the
Hindu majority.

The Tamil militants, particularly the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, the
largest of the groups, have also set their faces against the December proposals
because they diminish their demand for control of the traditional Tamil
homeland.

In the meantime, the Government is facing increased demands for firm action
against the Tamil militants. While the possibility of a political solution has
receded for the moment, the Government has to be seen to be doing something.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 28 1987, Tuesday

Pirate radio investigators terrorized: Ministry teams attacked by anarchist
groups

BYLINE: PHILIP WEBSTER, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62832.

LENGTH: 899 words


Government radio engineers are being terrorized as they track down pirate radio
operators, it was revealed yesterday.

A catalogue of physical attacks on members of the radio investigation service,
including one who later died from a heart attack after being set upon in
Birmingham, was disclosed by senior government sources.


It was revealed that an anarchist group based in London has latched on to the
cause of the 'pirates,' inciting them to violence and advising how to fight the
Department of Trade and Industry teams, and the police who accompany them when
they raid the illegal operators.

A document from the group distributed in the pirate radio 'underworld' of London
tells operators based on tower blocks how to confront DTI squads and police when
they arrive to seize illicit equipment.

It advises them to try to trap the engineers in the lifts by throwing power
switches. 'Then you take your gear down the stairs, beating up any of them you
meet on the way, and make off.'

The department cars are also vulberable, it says. 'If you are going to attack
them directly make sure you are well-masked and tooled up and have enough skill
and numbers to get past them. Go straight for the police officers and disable
them before they can make their 'officer in distress' call. Take or smash their
radios, or have someone jamming their frequencies.'

The members of the investigation service, engineers called telecommunications
technical officers, earn up to Pounds 13,000 a year plus overtime to enforce the
Wireless Telegraphy Acts. Many are living in fear for themselves and their
families who are being intimidated.

Government sources have revealed the following incidents:

Four engineers were ambushed by gangs in two cars off the Edgware Road in north
London on their way back from monitoring duties. One car stopped in front, the
other behind. Two engineers were dragged from the car and beaten with baseball
bats. One, in his thirties, has a permanently crushed elbow.

A radio investigation officer working alone in Birmingham was set upon by a
gang, dragged out of his car and had his false teeth smashed before having his
car stolen. He later had a heart attack and died. 'He never got over it,' a DTI
source said.

An officer climbing up a ladder at at London tower block to investigate an
unlicensed operation had it pulled from under him.

RIS vehicles are being chased by gangs after being spotted carrrying out their
more routine work. Terrified officers have driven through red traffic lights to
evade pursuers.

Officers and families have received threatening calls from unlicensed operators.

A British Gas engineer was told that the would be 'done over outside' after an
argument on the telephone with a pirate to win public support for what is
recognized to be unpopular job, and because of deep concern over the involvement
of anarchist elements.

Mr John Butcher, Under Secretary for Trade and Industry, told The Times last
night: 'I want the public to understand that the work of this department is to
protect the public at large. They have an extraordinarily difficult job but it
is applied with commonsense and realism.

'This recent phenomenon is very disturbing and we need the help of the public at
large to support the RIS. What they are doing is in the interests of the
public.'

Some officers are also believed to be unhappy over the amount of co-operation
from the police. They have been no prosecutions resulting from any of the
attacks on RIS staff.

Terrified officers being pursued by a gang took refuge in a police station. The
gang followed them in and started a stand-up row with the RIS officers in the
station. When the police intervened the gang alleged the RIS officers had
harassed one of the unlicensed operators.

The police took no action against the gang and suggested they should bring in
the alleged injury party as a witness.

The RIS became part of the DTI when British Telecom, in which it used to be
situated, was privatized. It has about 200 staff across the country, of whom
about 20 are engaged at any one time in tracking down unlicensed broadcasters.
Its job is to enforce the telegraphy Acts and maintain the quality of radio
communications.

Their union, the Institution of Professional Civil Servants, is known to be
concerned over the attacks. The DTI is not finding it easy to recruit engineers
to the division.

Pirate radio operators pose dangers. On one publicized occasion a prirate was
discovered using the same frequency as the independent landing system for jets
at Heathrow.

The document circulated by anarchist group tells operators: 'A good trick if you
can get away with it. The DTI and police (they normally only bring a few) are
wide open to attack (the mouse becomes the cat) when coming to get you.

'The problem is that in future you'll have to change your station name,
frequency, even your radio voice and they'll always be on your trail.

'The good thing is that if pirates start attacking them they have to bring many
more police with them, and can only do it when spare police are available.

'Other direct ways of hitting back are attacking the DTI at their bases.

'Remember they have the entire state apparatus backing them up. Any form of
direct attack should therefore be anonymous and never spoken of or boasted about
later.'

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              July 31 1987, Friday

'Godless' terrorists attacked by Botha

BYLINE: From MICHAEL HORNSBY

SECTION: Issue 62835.

LENGTH: 661 words

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG


The car bomb which injured 68 people in central Johannesburg yesterday morning
exploded at a time of intense political debate about the use of violence by the
outlawed African National Congress, the country's main black liberation
movement.

President Botha condemned the boming as 'a dastardly and callous act by
terrorists .. under the control of godless forces'. He did not name the ANC,
which has not yet claimed responsibility for the blast, but there is no doubt
that he had it in mind.


Yesterday's incident is similar to other urban guerrilla acts for which the
organization has accepted blame over the past four years and in which its
earlier fastidiousness about causing death or injury to civilians has been less
and less evident.

That, in turn, reflects, the increasing bitterness of the gradually accelerating
struggle between white and black nationalists, and the ANC's frustration at the
failure of international pressure and its previous, more limited, campaign of
sabotage to wring significant political concessions from the Government.

ANC military strategists insist that their aim is still not to kill or injure
civilians, but from some time now they have openly acknowledge that in striking
at government and security-force targets in city centres, civilians will
unavoidably be 'caught in the cross-fire'.

Yesterday's attack illustrates the difficulty of distinguishing between civilian
and non-civilian targets. Ostensibly, the bomb was aimed at the headquarters of
the Witwatersrand region of the South African Defence Force. On the information
so far availabe, however, it appears that most of those injured were civilians,
both black and white.

The bombing came only a day after pro-government newspapers had given prominence
to a broadcast on July 13 by the ANC's Radio Freedom urging that 'the struggle
should be extended to white areas'. (Radio Freedom consists of tape-recorded
messages which are broadcast by the radio services of the black so-called
frontline states on South Africa's borders.)

According to a transcript of the broadcast published here, the radio also said:
'The white minority is the cause of all our sorrow and suffering .. The time has
arrived for an eye for an eye, a tooth for tooth, a life for a life. History
lies in the asault on the bastions of white power.'

This statement, characteristic of the heated rhetoric of Radio Freedom, was
pointedly juxtaposed with the less blood-thirsty view of ANC strategy brought
home by the group of 60 mainly Afrikaans-speaking whites who met the
organization's leaders in Senegal earlier this month in defence of the
Government's disapproval of such contacts.

Against this background, the homecoming today of Dr Frederik van Zyl Slabbert,
the former leader of the white parliamentary Opposition who headed the group,
promises to be even more controversial than he might have hoped.

Members of the Senegal party who returned earlier this month has been bombarded
with abusive telephone calls, including some death threats, and Dr Slabbert and
other members of the group face a possible charge of high treason lodged by an
extreme right-wing group.

A black official of Dr Slabbert's organization, the Institute for a Democratic
Alternative for South Africa, which organized the Senegal conference, was
murdered a week ago by unknown, but presumably politically motivated, assassins.

Assassination of ANC activists in neighbouring countries - allegedly by gunmen
acting as agents of Pretoria - has become increasingly common over the past
year. Eleven ANC members have been killed in Swaziland alone since the beginning
of the year.

President Botha has not yet commented publicly on the Senegal expedition, but he
is expected to do so early this coming month during the parliamentary debate on
his department's budget. He has been accused by right-wing groups of implicitly
condoning the talks by so far remaining silent.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 1 1987, Tuesday

Security forces expected fresh terrorist attack: IRA 'kill-and-bomb' violence
alert

BYLINE: SHEILA GUNN

SECTION: Issue 62862.

LENGTH: 461 words


Security forces expected a new wave of violence after Sinn Fein's failure to
make a breakthrough in the Irish general election and in retaliation for the
Anglo-Irish agreement (Sheila Gunn writes).

Mr Ton King, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, who is believed to have
been the target of a planned IRA attack, himself spoke of 'a renewed desperation
and viciousness of the IRA' in the wake of the murder of Lord Justice Maurice
Gibson and his wife Cecily.


Mr Roy Mason, the former Labour Northern Ireland Secretary, who became a life
peer in the dissolution honours list, gave a warning of a possible
'kill-and-bomb campaign' aimed at smashing the Anglo-Irish agreement, which is
intended to improve relations between Dublin and Belfast.

He put forward proposals for a higher security profile which are understood to
have influenced Mr King's decision in May to increase the security forces
presence in Ulster.

Mr King and Mrs Margaret Thatcher are considered the two prime targets for
assassination by Irish terrorists and are given the tightest security.

The Northern Ireland Secretary's movements are never disclosed in advance and he
can expect to be protested by Special Branch officers for as long as he is
considered a target. That could be for life.

During the general election campaign, the four party leaders were protected by
armed Special Branch officers.

Such protection is normally given automatically only to Cabinet ministers and
the six Northern Ireland ministers.

Since Mr King, aged 54, was appointed Northern Ireland Secretary two years ago,
he and his family have had to live with constant surveillance from a specially
trained secruity team.

In Northern Ireland that involves travelling in armour-plated, bomb-proof car
and working in a steel-plated office.

His home at Dunholme Mill, a converted millhouse near the Wiltshire village of
Ford, has been equipped with electronicc security devices and he is guarded
around the clock by armed officers.

While Mr King accepts the security as part of the job, he has been known to defy
it on occasion.

Police officers were alarmed when he insisted on taking part in a victory parade
after the general election in June through the streets of Bridgwater, which he
has represented for 17 years.

Mr Merlyn Rees, who also held the Northern Ireland post under Labour, said of
yesterday's arrests after a tip-off from Ulster: 'It was obviously a job well
done.

He was the target of an attempted assassination while in office when a gunman
shot at his car in the streets of Belfast.

He said: 'The plain fact is that a Secretary of State is well looked after
whether he is away or at home. The police will be looking after him whenever he
is.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 27, 1988

IRA backlash deepens sullen mood: There was sympathy in the Catholic Falls Road
for the police victims of a terrorist grenade attack, but little for the force

BYLINE: By DAVID HEARST

LENGTH: 667 words


Five hours after the Attorney-General, Sir Patrick Mayhew, announced that eight
Royal Ulster Constabulary officers accused of conspiring to pervert the course
of justice will not be prosecuted, two armour-piercing grenades were thrown from
a derelict building on to two RUC Land-Rovers patrolling the Falls Road outside
the Royal Victoria Hospital.

One exploded on the roof of the second Land-Rover, killing one policeman and
blowing the hands off another.


It was visiting time at the post-natal ward of the Royal Maternity Hospital,
inside the RVH complex, and everyone rushed to the windows.

When told that a 'peeler' - a word still used to describe the RUC - had been
killed, they looked away in quiet resignation. There was sympathy for the
victim, but little for the force. The memories of being shot at by men in RUC
and B-Special uniforms during the 1969 loyalist attacks - when Catholics had
nothing to defend themselves with but hurley sticks - die hard.

Even among those who would describe themselves as constitutional nationalists
the feeling of sullen resignation yesterday about the outcome of the
Stalker/Sampson inquiry was overwhelming.

One man summed up the mood of many Social Democratic and Labour Party voters in
west Belfast, by saying: 'The Brits must have just decided that it did not
matter if everybody in Ireland complained for a few days. They could just
weather it out. And the sad thing is that they are right.

The significance of the decision to draw a veil over the events of two winter
months in 1982 is its effect on the standard of policing in 1988. Since the
signing of the Anglo-Irish agreement, the determination of the RUC to enforce
public order during the Orange marches, to crack down on loyalist paramilitary
murders, arms buying and racketeering, has had an effect on nationalist
attitudes towards them.

However, it has not reached the top of the SDLP, which has so far refused an
invitation to nominate two seats on the Northern Ireland Police Authority. The
SDLP leader, Mr John Hume's position to support the police in 'impartially
upholding the law' leaves his party an important caveat, when nationalists think
that they do not.

But SDLP workers and councillors, Catholic priests and community workers are
co-operating with the RUC, and its uniformed branch is making strenuous efforts
in north and west Belfast to reply in kind.

The progress made since 1985 is reflected in crude terms in the clear-up rate of
crime in B Division, which covers most of west Belfast. In 1985 only 1,400
crimes out of 6,600 were cleared up. A year later that figure had risen to 2,600
for the same level of crime.

It is because of this that the Irish Republic puts so much emphasis on articles
7 and 8 of the Anglo-Irish agreement. The first binds Britain to agreeing to a
programme of 'special measures in Northern Ireland to improve relations between
the security forces and the community, with the object of making the security
forces more readily accepted by the nationalist community.' The second binds
Britain to agree on 'the importance of the public administration of justice.'

On this agenda, the feeling is rapidly gaining ground in Dublin that the two
Irish governments that have been in power since the agreement was signed have
got nowhere on central demands for Diplock courts with three judges, and for a
full inquiry into the allegations of an RUC shoot-to-kill policy.

If the appeal of the Birmingham Six fails tomorrow, the cumulataive weight of
what is seen on this side of the Irish Sea as a cynical British display of force
majeure will become hard for the Government to resist.

In giving reasons of national security for the decision not to prosecute senior
officers of the RUC for actions of MI5 and MI6 in 1982, the Government may have
provoked a security crisis in 1988, when the threat to the RUC is not from
Armalites or armour-piercing grenades, but from anit-aircraft guns and Sam-7
missles.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 17, 1988

PLO warns of fresh terror attacks: Arafat threatens revenge for Cyprus ship
sabotage

BYLINE: From DAVID HIRST and IAN BLACK

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: NICOSIA and NABLUS


PLO Chairman, Mr Yasser Arafat, yesterday served warning that his organisation
might resume acts of violence outside Israel and the occupied territories.

This, he indicated, would be in retaliation for two exploits - the car bomb
assassination of three high-ranking PLO officials in Limassol on Sunday and the
mining of the ferryboat Sol Phryne - which the Palestinians lay at Israel's
door.


Such a policy - a significant setback to efforts to curb international terrorism
- would repudiate the Cairo Declaration of November 1985, in which Mr Arafat
announced his opposition to 'all forms of terrorism against unarmed civilians
anywhere', as well as any military actions undertaken outside Israel or the
occupied territories.

He pledged that any violators would be severely punished. He issued the
declaration shortly after the hijacking of the Achille Lauro pleasure liner,
which had been a great embarrassment for him.

At a press conference in Kuwait yesterday, Mr Arafat said: 'The Israelis should
know that the Cairo Declaration is not a commitment from one side only and they
must understand that terrorism is a double edged sword and that patience has its
limits.'

He disclosed that he had telephoned 'our brethren in Egypt, as witnesses of the
Declaration, to tell them of our stand and have them relay the message.'

Mr Arafat blamed 'an Israeli frogman brought to the harbour by an Israeli naval
vessel,' for the disabling of the Sol Phryne, which the PLO had just bought for
its 'ship of return' propaganda exercise in support of the Palestinian
'uprising'.

As for the car bomb killings, he warned that 'if Mossad thinks it can at any
moment assassinate some of our heroes. . . they should not think our hand is
short. They know more than others that we can get them in any place or at any
time.'

Mr Arafat was adding his authority to the point made earlier in a statement from
PLO headquarters in Tunis: that 'we had adhered to the Cairo Declaration to halt
military operations against enemy targets outside the borders of our country'
and that it was 'not logical or possible for the halt to continue unilaterally.'

Ian Black adds for Nablus: Driving rain dampened what was billed as a 'day of
rage' by Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip yesterday but a strictly
observed mass general strike showed that the nine week 'uprising' may still be
far from over.

Israeli troops made no effort to force shopkeepers to open their premises, and
towns and villages throughout the area were eerily deserted as Palestinians
stayed at home.

The deputy chief of staff, General Ehud Barak, said the army had decided to stop
coercing businessmen to behave normally.

Scattered incidents of stone-throwing and tyre-burning were reported in the
Hebron area in the southern part of the West Bank and there were similar
incidents in the Gaza Strip.

Two Arab protestors were wounded by army gunfire in Qabatiya, in the northern
West Bank. Most of the estimated 120,000 Palestinians who have jobs inside
Israel's pre-1967 borders failed to turn up for work.

The Israeli Defence Minister, Mr Yitzhak Rabin, braved the apalling weather to
tour the Casbah in the centre of Nablus and was shown sites of recent clashes
between Palestinians and the security forces, including the Al-Nasr mosque where
two demonstrators were shot dead last Friday. At least 56 Arabs have died since
the unrest began in early December.

Dozens of helmeted soldiers and plainclothes security men armed with machine
guns spread out through the narrow alleyways as Mr Rabin's convoy of jeeps
arrived. The very few Palestinians on the rainsoaked streets were brusquely
directed to take other routes.

Mr Rabin repeated that the army was investigating the incident in the Nablus
area 10 days ago when soldiers allegedly used a bulldozer to bury four
Palestinians alive under a foot of earth.

A sergeant major and another NCO are expected to be courtmartialled over the
incident, the worst act of brutality recorded during the uprising.

Calndestine leaflets issued by the 'PLO-United National Leadership of the
Uprising' at the weekend called on Palestinians to hold 'violent demonstrations
in every village and town' and specifically demanded attacks on Jewish
settlements.

One key question for the Palestinians now is whether businessmen - especially in
the eastern, Arab side of what the Israelis call 'united' Jerusalem - can
maintain their strike.

After more than two months of almost permanent closure, many of them have
exhausted their savings, and there have been complaints the PLO is not sending
enough money to support them.

The authorities have made clear that they are making the stoppage of funds
coming in from abroad a major priority.

Mr Shmuel Goren, the Defence Ministry's coordinator of operations for the West
Bank and Gaza, who accompanied Mr Rabin on his visit here yesterday said: 'We
cannot entirely prevent an influx of funds, but at least we will make it more
difficult.'

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 18, 1988

Overseas News In Brief: Terrorist claim attack

BYLINE: By JANE WALKER

LENGTH: 40 words

DATELINE: MADRID


A Catalan terrorist group, Terra Lliure (Free Homeland), yesterday claimed
reponsibility for planting the small bomb which exploded in the British
consulate building in Barcelona. Consulate staff said there was only minor
damage.


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 23, 1988

Thatcher attacks BBC 'aid to terror': Refusal to hand over Ulster funeral film
sparks new row with media

BYLINE: By JAMES NAUGHTIE, DAVID HEARST and JOE JOYCE

LENGTH: 729 words


The Government and the BBC plunged yesterday into another bitter argument over
journalistic independence when the Prime Minister accused the corporation of
supporting terrorists rather than justice by refusing to hand over untransmitted
film of the weekend murder of two soldiers in Belfast to the Royal Ulster
Constabulary.

'Either one is on the side of justice in these matter or one is on the side of
terrorism,' Mrs Thatcher told the Commons, in an attack directed entirely
against the BBC, even though ITN is also refusing to hand over film, as is the
Irish state broadcasting company, RTE.


The RUC, its hand forced by Mrs Thatcher's statement, is likely to seek a court
order to order camera crews to hand over untransmitted footage of the killings
at the IRA funeral in Andersonstown on Saturday.

Mrs Thatcher's statement brought a forthright defence of the position of all
three television companies from Mr Michael Checkland, Director General of the
BBC. He said the corporation's decision lay at the root of the BBC's news
gathering policy which had been carefully developed over 20 years.

Mr Checkland said: 'If we allow automatic free access to untransmitted material,
the next victims of such events could be BBC staff, cameramen, reporters or
sound recordists and the corporation would lose the ability to report what is
happening in Northern Ireland.' A court order would be obeyed, he said.

He said it was because the BBC was allowed into Republican areas that the full
horror of Saturday's events had been brought into the everyone's living rooms.

It is understood that none of either the BBC or RTE material would be
significant as evidence to the RUC. The RTE crew was the first to be attacked by
Sinn Fein stewards; when asked to leave they did so. The BBC material, which had
been seen by senior editors, was regarded as untransmittable solely because of
its poor quality.

ITN and an unnamed French television crew are believed to have the best footage
of the crowd immediately before the attack took place.

ITN's editor, Mr David Nicholas, said last night: 'All the pictures of the
storming of the car have been shown and ITN does not have any pictures of the
subsequent murders.

'ITN's role is to inform the public. Its ability to gather the news,
particularly in Northern Ireland, would be jeopardised if its untransmitted
material were readily available.

'ITN does not consider itself above the law and it is open to the authorities to
use the due process of the law in its inquiries.'

In 1986 BBC crews were threatened and attacked by Loyalist paramilitaries at
Orange Marches.

Mrs Thatcher told the Commons that it was the bounden duty of everyone, the
media included, to see that those who perpetrated the terrible crimes seen on
television the world over were brought to justice.

She delighted Conservative MPs with a straightforward attack on the BBC's
attitude in which she displayed her considerable personal hostility to the
corporation.

An Official Ulster Unionist, Mr William Ross, MP for Londonderry East, tried
unsuccessfully to call an emergency Commons debate and many Conservative MPs
made clear their anger at the BBC, which Mr Ross said was obliged by 'common
decency' to hand over all relevant material.

The RUC has its own film of the events, shot from a helicopter, but has asked
for untransmitted film to help its search for the soldiers' killers.

Mrs Thatcher appealed in the Commons for those with influence in nationalist
areas in Northern Ireland to urge people to cooperate with the police.

There was a bizarre mix-up in the ranks of the Social and Liberal Democrats over
the issue. Mr David Steel, one of the joint leaders, issued a statement saying
the broadcasters were right to stick to principles, while Mr David Alton, the
party's Northern Ireland spokesman, accused the BBC and ITN of making 'wholly
unacceptable' excuses.

Mrs Thatcher also condemned churchmen and witnesses to Saturday's events who
were prepared to do nothing more than issue statements of revulsion.

The RUC published a new toll-free confidential telephone line. It said the use
of the existing service had increased by 50 per cent since last week.

A service will be held at the Cenotaph in Belfast today for the soldiers who
died, Corporals Derek Wood and David Howes.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 27 1988, Sunday

Insight: Caught in the act - IRA man who led the attack / The faces the
terrorists failed to conceal when the mob moved in

SECTION: Issue 8538.

LENGTH: 670 words


THE Sunday Times has discovered the identify of two men shown in the previously
unpublished picture above. The photograph shows the attack on the car driven by
the two British soldiers murdered by the IRA in Belfast last weekend. Both men,
seen clearly in the picture above, are convicted IRA terrorists.

One, 'Cleeky' Clarke (arrowed), jumped on the back of Corporal Derek Wood,
forcing him to the ground with another, cloth-capped, attacker before he was
carried away to be beaten and shot.


The second in John McAvoy, who is shown racing around the rear of the soldiers'
Volkswagen Passat.

Insight has established that the man with the balding head, Clarke, is a former
H-block prisoner.

His attack on Corporal Wood at the funeral of IRA activist Kevin Brady eight
days ago conflicts with republican statements that funeral stewards initially
tried to hold the mob back from Corporal Wood and his passenger, Corporal David
Howes.

Clarke, who was among those leading the attack on the occupants of the car, was
chief steward at the funeral.

The second man dragging Wood from the car is an unidentified black-cab driver
from the Andersonstown area.

McAvoy, wearing a black jacket, has served four years for firearms offences.
Both he and Clarke were yesterday believed to be in hiding.

This picture, together with others which appear on pages A16 and A17, obtained
by The Sunday Times from various sources, are among the clearest pictures yet of
those who initially surrounded the soldiers' car - some in the vanguard of the
attack.

Television shots largely showed the backs of those in the mob and an army
surveillance film, shot from a helicopter above the scene, is indistinct,
although it is being computer enhanced to improve its quality.

Our pictures had to be smuggled out of west Belfast after the IRA attempted to
impose strong-arm censorship:

Photographers were accosted in the street and told to hand over their film by
IRA men who said they were armed;

At the cemetery where Brady was buried, IRA officials herded photographers
together and took their names, and the publications they worked for. The
photographers didn't need to ask why;

One news agency transmitted just four pictures of the violence - none of which
showed the faces of anyone in the crowd. It later denied reports that it had
been told which pictures to publish by a Sinn Fein official.

Yesterday the question of photographic evidence was raised when two men, Alex
Murphy and Henry McGuire, appeared in court in Belfast charged with murdering
the two soldiers.

The resident magistrate, Thomas Travers, twice had to tell Maguire's lawyer,
Patrick Finucane, to stop interrupting the proceedings.

Travers's instruction came as dealts of the foresenic evidence were being given
to the court by Detective Superintendent Derek Waites. Finucane interrupted to
ask: 'Does that mean you are not relying on evidence of a photographic nature?'

Waites replied: 'That is not correct.' Finucane was told that police were in
possession of a quantity of photographic material which was still being
analysed.

Finucane asked: 'Would you indicate the source of the photographic material?'
Travers said: 'I do not think it is a proper question to answer at this stage.
It is not a matter for the police to disclose the source of their evidence.'

Finucane insisted: 'The defence has an interest in any material which may become
an exhibit at any future trial of the accused. Therefore, to frustrate defence
knowledge of this material may cause prejudice to the accused.'

He was overruled by Travers, who said he was only concerned at that stage with
whether or not there was sufficient evidence to enable him to remand Maguire. He
added: 'The prosecution are not bound to disclose the source of their evidence
at this stage.

Murphy's solicitor, Kieran Steel, then asked the detective about photographic
evidence against his client. He replied that he wished to reserve his evidence.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 22 1988, Friday

India mounts verbal attack on Zia over Sikh terror link

BYLINE: From MICHAEL HAMLYN

SECTION: Issue 63062.

LENGTH: 373 words

DATELINE: DELHI


A war of words against Pakistan escalated this week as Indian leaders bombarded
their neighbours with a series of ministerial statements, at least one of which
accused President Zia of Pakistan of lying about assistance being given to Sikh
terrorists.

Mr Buta Singh, the Minister of Home Affairs, told Parliament that the assertion
by President Zia that Pakistan was not aiding the terrorists was 'a tissue of
lies'. He said that he had 'incontrovertible proof' that it was doing so.


At the same time Mr Rajiv Gandhi, the Indian Prime Minister, talking to the
commanders of India's million-strong Army, declared that Pakistan had 'thwarted
every suggestion of ours' to normalize relations between the two countries
during the eight meetings he has had with General Zia and three with the
Pakistan Prime Minister, Mr Muhammad Junejo.

Mr Gandhi also said that Pakistan was continuing to assist Punjab terrorism.

A third minister, Mr K. Natwar Singh, the Minister of State for External
Affairs, commented in Parliament on the sustained support that Punjab terrorists
were receiving in Pakistan, adding that India knew 'the location of their
training camps and the names of the persons training the extremists'. A former
Foreign Minister, Mr Bali Ram Bhagat, also speaking in Parliament, accused
Pakistan of carrying on an 'undeclared war in Punjab'.

Mr Buta Singh said that two Pakistani Rangers had been killed with two
terrorists on Tuesday morning.

He suggested that the Rangers had been providing cover for the terrorists while
they slipped into India, adding that other terrorists had cut back across the
line, leaving behind their Chinese-made AK-47 assault rifles, and 1,000 rounds
of ammunition.

The Ministry of Home Affairs told Parliament on Wednesday that 335 weapons,
including revolvers, pistols, rifles and rocket launchers, had been seized in
Punjab during the first three months of the year, and Mr KPS Gill, the new chief
of police in Punjab, said another 42 AK47s have been captured in the past three
weeks.

A cache of 16 Soviet-made anti-tank missiles, probably originally captured by
the Mujahidin in Afghanistan, were also unearthed on Wednesday at a farmhouse in
Gurdaspur district.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 3 1988, Tuesday

Dutch fear more terror attacks by IRA: Aftermath of Netherlands killings

BYLINE: From RICHARD OWEN

SECTION: Issue 63071.

LENGTH: 826 words

DATELINE: AMSTERDAM


Dutch security experts believe that the weekend murders of three RAF men in The
Netherlands by the IRA marked not so much a one-off propaganda response to
Gibraltar and other setbacks but rather acts which herald more carefully planned
attacks against British targets on the Continent.

The Dutch daily De Volkskrant, referring to 'the long arm of the IRA', called
the killings 'the most serious act of terrorism on the continent of Europe so
far'. It added: 'The terrorists have recovered their balance.'


Dutch officials said that the IRA, which had long had special links with radical
groups and the Irish expatriate community in Amsterdam, found the Netherlands
and Belgium relatively easy to operate in.

The IRA - exploiting the increasingly open frontiers of Europe as it approaches
integration in 1992 - is able to link up with terrorists from other European
countries, including West Germany, the sources said, and did not necessarily
need to bring 'hit teams ' to the Continent. 'The IRA undoubtedly has sleeper
units in place,' one police expert said.

The security authorities have identified a terrorist network in Europe,
embracing the IRA, Basque separatists, the Italian Red Brigades and West
Germany's Red Army Faction. These groups aid one another with guns, cash and
escape routes.

Over the past three year there has been a resurgence of 'Euro-terrorism',
beginning with the murders of prominent armaments industrialists in 1985 by
Action Directe in France and the Red Army Faction in Munich. In response,
Europe's police forces have increasingly pooled their resources. 'This is a
cross-frontier pheonomenon,' one counter-terrorism expert said. It has to be
fought in a cross-frontier way.'

France, West Germany and Italy regularly exchange computer information to keep
track of terrorist suspects, both European and Middle Eastern. And EEC
counter-terrorism experts have proposed that national security services should
maintain liaison officers on other European countries' police forces.

None the less, in a free society - as Dutch Justice Ministry officials point out
- determined terrorists and other criminals are extremely difficult to stop. In
many parts of the Continent, frontier checks have been almost completely
abolished already, in anticipation of 1992.

The Low Countries have been a 'soft target' for the past decade, with an IRA
catalogue of terror stretching from the murder in 1979 at the Hague of Sir
Richard Skyes, the British Ambassador to the Netherlands, to Sunday's murder of
three airmen at Nieuw Bergen and Roermond. In between came an IRA bomb in
Brussels, under a bandstand where a British Army and was due to perform; an
attempt on the life of Mr Christopher Tugendhat, in 1980, when he was an EEC
commissioner in Brussels; and last year's car-bomb attack at Rheindhalen, the
British Army HQ just over the border in West Germany.

The answer, senior EEC officials believe, lies not in abandoning the programme
for abolishing internal frontiers, but in reinforcement controls at EEC external
frontiers, and in improving the exchange of information between intelligence
services, using sophisticated modern technology.

The problems are exemplified by Amsterdam, which, with its liberal atmosphere,
drugs culture and reputation as an arms-running centre, offer sanctuary for IRA
sympathisers. An organization founded by the Irish community here and known as
the Netherlands Ireland Committee (or alternatively the Irish Information
Centre) publicizes the activities of Sinn Fein and campaigns openly against the
British military presence in Ulster.

On the canals, there are several Irish bars and folks song cafes, including the
Korrupt, the Dubliner and the String. None of the young Irishmen there approved
of the killings, but some were ambivalent. The Netherlands Ireland Committee
issued a statement regretting the killings and the fact that they took place on
Dutch soil, but putting the blame squarely on 'the attitude of the British
Government over the past few months.'

What is not clear is whether the horrifying murders in the two Dutch border
towns will lead to a drop - even temporary - in any latent support there may be
for extreme Irish nationalism in Amsterdam's sub-culture.

Last year two IRA men who had been behind the Maze Prison breakout in 1983 -
Gerald Kelly and Brendan McFarlane - were extradited to Britain after they had
been arrested by Dutch police, after a tip from the British security services
under the new anti-terrorism co-operation procedures. But the proceedings took
nearly nine months, and some Dutch officials believe that some IRA sympathisers
who poured in to Amsterdam during that period to try to prevent the extradition
may have stayed on.

One Amsterdamer complained yesterday: 'We are getting rather tired of Ireland
and the Irish problem. It is about time they stopped bringing the Irish conflict
to Holland.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 17, 1988

British aid family are Sudan victims: Lebanese are held after Khartoum terror
attacks

BYLINE: By SHYAMA PERERA and LINDSEY HILSUM

LENGTH: 601 words


Four Britons who died in a terrorist attack on a Khartoum hotel on Sunday were
last night named as aid workers Chris and Clare Rolfe, and their children
Thomas, aged 3, and Louise, aged 1. They had been in Sudan for just two months.

The grenade attack on the dining room of the Acropole Hotel was followed by a
teargas and machine gun attack on the nearby Sudan Club, used exclusively by
British and Commonwealth citizens, but last night there was speculation that the
real targets of the attackers were American.


A large number of foreigners and diplomats were in the hotel at the time,
including a senior American diplomat. Several Americans were injured.

Sources last night reported the US embassy in Khartoum was launching its own
investigation into the incidents.

But the hotel was also a favoured stop-off for Western aid workers taking a
break in the capital, and as the total number of dead was yesterday confirmed as
seven, there were separate rumours that the carnage was the work of Muslim
extremists who apparently believe that aid organisations favour Christians
through their work. The attacks happened shortly before the swearing in of a new
coalition government and coincided with the end of Ramadan, the Muslim holy
month.

Last night, the finger was pointing firmly at an Arab plot of some kind. As
rescue workers sifted through the debris at the Acropole Hotel, where the
mangled bodies of six dead and 21 injured were recovered, Sudanese police were
holding three men with Lebanese passports who were caught fleeing the scene.

Unsustantiated reports said that up to 35 others, including Syrinans and
Palestinians, were also being held.

Witnesses described the arrested men as Middle Eastern and dressed in
traditional Sudanese robes. They were caught while frantically trying to change
into normal garb.

No organisation has yet claimed responsibility for the attacks, the first of
which blew the tin roof off the two-storey hotel and smashed a hole in the floor
a yard wide.

The grenades are believed to be Soviet made, and police and waiters at the Sudan
Club said last night that automatic pistols and sub-machineguns were found on
some of the suspects.

British visitors and workers in Sudan have now been advised to avoid the south
of the country, where rebels are waging civil war. A Foreign Office spokesman
said last night: 'We have no means at the moment of knowing if it is an attack
aimed at British interests or whether it is wider than that. We are reviewing
our advice about visiting Khartoum.'

Chris and Clare Rolfe worked for the Ockenden Venture, a Surrey-based charity
dealing with refugee projects in the Sudan. They arrived in Sudan two months ago
to begin work with drought victims and had previously spent three-and-a-half
years working with refugees in Somalia for the Quaker Peace Service. They then
took a year break in England, lecturing on their experiences.

The couple were last night described as 'utterly dedicated'.

Mr Jim Thomson, the charity's overseas director, who spent last week with the
Rolfes in Khartoum, said: 'Their death is a tragedy and has no reason. It will
be deeply regretted by a wide range of British agencies. We are desolated by
this tragedy.'

Their families were yesterday too distraught to comment on the tragedy. Mr
Rolfe, aged 35, originally came from Brighton. His wife, aged 37, has family in
Wheathampstead, Hertfordshire.

The others who died in the attacks are believed to be two Sudanese, one of them
a waiter, and an unidentified foreigner.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 12, 1988

'Terrorist' data under attack

BYLINE: By ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: BONN


A leading West German counter-intelligence official has accused the police of
'data mania' and said only one fifth of computer information on alleged leftwing
terrorists was relevant to the 'real situation'.

Christian Lochte, the counter-intelligence chief of the state of Hamburg, which
is ruled by a coalition of Social Democrats and Liberals, disclosed in a legal
gazette that the federal police computers had stored information on 3,000
alleged terrorists and another 11,000 supporters.


'This has absolutely nothing to do with reality,' Mr Lochte wrote, adding that
four fifths of the computer data were super-fluous and should be scrapped.

Mr Lochte maintained that the police theories about 'preventive measures' to
combat terrorism had assumed 'fantastic proportions' and that in many cases
legal principles were being ignored. Even after former terrorists had renounced
their previous links the police continued to store information 'by the yard'.

His unprecedented criticism was welcomed as a 'worthwhile service to democracy'
by a number of academics specialising in terrorism. But the Federal Criminal
Office (BKA) in Wiesbaden defended the legal basis on which the information was
collected.

In West Germany, both counter-intelligence and the monitoring of terrorist
activity are organised by the Office for the Protection of the Constitution, the
Verfassungsschutz.

However, Mr Lochte's criticism appears justified when held against official
statistics on terrorism released by Bonn two months ago. According to the
Interior Ministry's counter-intelligence report for 1987, a hard core of about
20 Red Army Faction (RAF) terrorists existed that year, plus some 200
supporters. Membership of extreme leftwing bodies was put at 62,000, covering
groups ranging from registered Communists parties to anarchists and anti-nuclear
protesters.

But it also showed that parties of the extreme right increased their numbers by
about 14 per cent last year, up from 22,000 to 25,000, and that neonazism was
becoming more violent.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 12 1988, Tuesday

Survivors dived into sea; Survivors comment on the terrorist attack on a Greek
ship

SECTION: Issue 63131.

LENGTH: 321 words


' There were two of them spraying passengers with machinegun fire. It is a
wonder how more people did not get killed. When their magazines were exhausted
they just recharged and kept firing on.'

This dramatic account of yesterday's attack on the Greek pleasure boat, the City
of Poros, was given by a crew member last night. He said one of the gunmen was
thin and wore a grey T-shirt, another a white shirt.


Equally graphic descriptions came from the passengers.

An American, who asked not to be identified, said: 'I saw one man taking a
machinegun out of a bag and start shooting at the crowd. Another one hurled
grenades and then it was absolute hysteria.

'People jumped in the sea and the ship's deck was ablaze. I heard two
explosions. There was blood everywhere.'

M Jean Wogewda of Lorient, France, and his wife Natalie, French passengers on
the liner were both wounded. by the gunman. He was shot in both legs but still
managed to crawl away.

From a hospital bed in Piraeus he said: 'I was on deck when I heard automatic
fire. I turned around and was thrown into the air by the impact of the bullets
hitting my legs.

'I saw the man who was shooting and I couldn't believe it and thought it was a
joke. When I saw others falling to the deck, it turned out to be real.

'I only saw one gunman as he reloaded his weapon. Then he hurled a grenade at
the ship's smoke stack setting off a fire. Then he approached my group and
started firing at us again.'

M Wogewda said panic set in and many passengers scattered quickly for cover.
Others grabbed life jackets and jumped over the railing.

The ship's master, Captain George Mavromatakis, said that shortly after he
sailed from the island of Aegina, on the return journey, he heard the first
officer, , Antonis Deimezis, scream: 'They are shooting, take cover!'

He said he saw two gunmen on the bridge firing at the passengers .

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 12 1988, Tuesday

Nine killed in terror attack on cruise ship; Britons among 78 injured on a Greek
pleasure boat

BYLINE: MARIO MODIANO and DAVID CROSS

SECTION: Issue

LENGTH: 1450 words


At least nine people died when masked gunmen hurling grenades and firing
sub-machineguns attacked a Greek pleasure boat packed with foreign tourists on
an island cruise last night.

Hundreds of passengers jumped into the sea to escape the attack.


The Greek Merchant Marine Ministry said six of the dead, mostly foreign
tourists, died instantly in the machinegun attack on the 688 tonne City of Poros
three miles off the island of Aegina. Three others died later of bullet wounds
in hospital and up to 100 others injured.

'It is a wonder how more people did not get killed, ' one crew member said.
'When their magazines were exhausted they just recharged and kept firing on.'

Late last night it was still unclear whether all the passengers had been
accounted for. As darkness fell the search for those who had jumped overboard
continued by the light of flares dropped from planes.

'People who jumped overboard to escape are still being brought in by other ships
so we don't yet know how may still be missing, ' said Mr Andreas Andrianopoulos,
the mayor of Piraeus.

Six hours before the attack an explosion killed two men and destroyed a car
parked near a marina where the City of Poros was to dock in the Athens seaside
surburb of Paleo Faliron.

A senior police officer said: 'We are assuming the two attacks are connected,
but there's no hard evidence so far.' No claim of responsibility had been made
for the ship attack.

Hospital authorities said at least four Britons were among the injured.

The ship was carrying 496 crew and passengers on a day trip around the Saronic
Gulf, off Athens. The ship's operators said most of the tourists were French but
there were also 35 Swedes, 13 British and seven Americans along with numerous
other nationalities.

Witnesses said the gunmen sprayed passengers on the ship's deck with machinegun
fire and threw hand grenades and fire bombs which set fire to the deck,
spreading panic and sending most passengers leaping into the sea.

People on nearby ships who saw the drama said the gunmen then fled in a small
speedboat. Greek Government sources said air force planes, helicopters and
coastguard vessels were hunting the attackers, whose identity was not
immediately known.

Mr Evanghelos Yannopoulos, the Minister of Merchant Marine, called the attack a
'wretched act of barbarity'. He said nine dead included the first officer Mr
Antonis Deimezis. The others were foreign tourists.

He said that of those taken to hospital 15 had been wounded by grenades and
bullets, others had sustained broken limbs from jumping overboard and the rest
were suffering from shock.

The bodies of those found on the ship were so badly burnt they could not
immediately be identified. A flotilla of small ships was last night conducting a
searchlight hunt for survivors.

Mr Andreas Papandreou, the Greek Prime Minister, cut short his holidays to visit
several of the wounded. An emergency Cabinet meeting will be held today.

The City of Poros was attacked after setting sail yesterday morning from a
marina in the Athens suburb of Paleo Faliro.

A few hours before the attack, Paleo Faliro was rocked by two explosions in a
car which killed its two occupants and spilt out weapons, American bank notes
and a half-burnt Iranian magazine.

Police said the two were Middle Eastern and suspected that those killed in the
car blast were connected with the gunmen on the ship, possibly waiting for it to
return to the marina.

'The persons in the car were probably waiting for the boat to return to set the
explosives off as the passengers disembarked but something went wrong and they
fell victims to their own weaponry, ' a senior police officer said.

'The gunmen on the ship probably heard the news of the blast from the radio and
decided to take dynamic action on their own.

'What worries me is the Iranian magazine found at the wrecked car. Iran was in
the news lately but I don't want to say anything else.'

Counter-terrorist experts have not ruled out the possibility that the attack was
staged in retaliation for the shooting down of the Iran Air airliner by a US
warship in the Gulf last week.

Unconfirmed reports said all US bases in Greece had been put on alert.
Precautions around the US Embassy in Athens were stepped up after the shooting
down of the Iran Air Airbus in the Gulf last week, for fear of retaliatory
action.

A US military attache was killed on June 28 when a bomb planted in his car
exploded as he drove to work in Athens. The Greek extreme-left guerrilla group
November 17 later claimed responsibility.

Panic erupted on the vessel as soon as the gunmen struck. 'Most of the
passengers jumped in the sea when the first explosions were heard. It was
absolute hell, ' a passenger said.

The maritime minister, Mr Yannpoulos, said the attackers were already on board
the cruise ship when it set sail.

Captain George Mavromatakis, the ship's master, said he heard the first officer
scream: 'They are shooting, take cover!' and then saw two gunmen firing at the
passengers and lobbing hand grenades. 'There was a big explosion and I found
myself buried under burning debris, ' he said.

M Jean Wogewda and his wife Natalie, French passengers on the liner, were both
wounded by the gunmen. M Wogewda was shot in both legs but managed to crawl
away.

'I turned around and was thrown into the air by the impact of the bullets
hitting my legs, ' he said from his hospital bed.

'I couldn't believe it and thought it was a joke. I only saw one gunman as he
reloaded his weapon. Then he hurled a grenade at the ship's smoke stack setting
off a fire. Then he .. started firing at us again.'

Coastguard boats lifted wounded passengers from the sea. Hospital sources said
the 98 people admitted for treatment were from France, Sweden, Denmark, Britain,
Greece, Morocco, Norway, Colombia, Japan and Jordan.

'They are very frightened, some of them in shock, ' a doctor said.

Two British passengers discharged from hospital after receiving first aid were
identified as Mr John Whittome, 59, and Mrs Sonia Thilenius, aged 67.

Relatives said Mr Whittome, a bank manager from Worthing, Sussex, and his wife,
Celia, were travelling with a group of pupils from the Sion Convent School in
Worthing, West Sussex. Mr Whittome's wife, Celia, is a classics teacher at the
school and often travels abroad with school parties, she said.

The coastguard said fire-fighters had brought the blaze on the vessel under
control.

A film shot by an amateur photographer on a hydrofoil passing the City of Poros
after the gunmen fled, screened on Greek television, showed a helicoper hovering
over the liner and at least 10 smaller vessels coming to the liner's assistance.

With smoke pouring out of the ship's side, it sailed the 16 miles to the port of
Piraeus at full speed.

The City of Poros, built in 1962 and owned by the Canopus Shipping company of
Athens, operated as a day cruiser specializing in visiting islands dotting the
Saronic Gulf.

The earlier explosions in the Paleo Faliro suburb wrecked a car rented by a man
using a Lebanese passport. Besides killing its two occupants the blast spilt out
a hoard of weapons, ammunition and US banknotes.

Police officers suggested the occupants of the car had either been trading arms
and explosives clandestinely, or were preparing to stage a terrorist attack in
the Athens area.

The bodies of the victims were so dismembered that police were uncertain about
the number of persons killed. Nor were they able to say whether the powerful
explosive had detonated accidentally or had been set off deliberately. The man
who rented the car on July 4 was identified as Amut al-Hamit, aged 36. The car
hire clerk remembered that he was escorted by two other 'Arab-looking men'. A
man by the same name checked in last Friday at a seaside hotel in Glyfada, just
beyond Athens airport.

Witnesses said the car was hit by two explosions while it was parked on a side
road of the road to the airport. Wreckage was scattered over a wide area and the
blast damaged nearby buildings and destroyed a taxi parked 50 yards away.

The taxi driver was spared because she was having a cup of coffee near by.

Previous attack: Yesterday's attack marked the worst such incident involving a
passenger ship since October 1985, when four Palestinians commandeered the
Italian cruise ship Achille Lauro with 511 passengers and crew off Egypt and
threatened to blow it up unless Israel freed Palestinian prisoners.

A crippled American passenger was murdered by the hijackers.

The four hijackers were tried and imprisoned in Italy.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 13 1988, Wednesday

Thatcher praises pupils; Terrorist attack on the Greek passanger boat;
Parliament

SECTION: Issue 63132.

LENGTH: 107 words


The Worthing schoolgirls on the Greek passenger boat attacked by terrorist s
were a credit to their school, their families, themselves and to Britain, Mrs
Thatcher said at question time. 'I gladly pay tribute to them.'

She was responding to Mr Terence Higgins (Worthing, C), who asked her to condemn
the appalling attack and to pay tribute to the schoolgirls from Sion Convent
School 'who not only reacted bravely but administered first aid'.


Mrs Thatcher said that the attack had been an appalling act of terrorism against
those who were on holiday. All acts of terrorism were appalling but this had
been particularly so.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 14, 1988

Suspected woman 'terrorist' may have been killed in attack

BYLINE: By PAUL WEBSTER

LENGTH: 191 words

DATELINE: PARIS


A French woman wanted by Greek police in connection with the City of Poros
incident was an innocent tourist who was probably killed during the attack, a
friend said yesterday.

Photographs of Isabelle Bismuth, aged 21, were circulated to all frontiers and
police were told she was a Moroccan terrorist travelling with seven male
accomplices. However, her parents recognised the photograph when it was shown on
French television.


Miss Bismuth, a Paris secretary who was photgraphed playing cards with a
suspected terrorist, was travelling with a friend, Miss Rossana Tortarelli.

The friend contacted Miss Bismuth's parents to say she was sure the woman was
dead.

'I was sitting with her on the deck just before the attack,' Miss Tortarelli
said. 'I went down to the bar just before the shooting. Later, I saw that the
area where Isabelle had been sitting was destroyed by fire. I'm sure she was
burnt to death, as there are bodies that cannot be identified.'

French authorities have been told no French people were killed and could not
confirm American reports that five French people were among the unidentified
dead.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 14 1988, Thursday

Greece warned of terror attack risk

BYLINE: MARIO MODIANO in Athens and NICHOLAS BEESTON

SECTION: Issue 63133.

LENGTH: 412 words


Washington warned Athens more than a month ago that its reluctance to extradite
to the US a suspected Palestinian terrorist, Mohammed Rashid, would expose it to
the risk of a guerrilla attack, a diplomatic source said yesterday.

A spokesman for the Greek Government refused to comment, but said: 'Greece
co-operates with all countries on the exchange of information about terrorism.'


Police sources said last night that a young Frenchwoman, initially identified as
an accomplice in Monday's guerrilla assault on the Greek cruise ship, the City
of Poros, was one of nine tourists killed in the attack. They said that the body
of Isabelle Bismuth, aged 21, was identified by friends who came to Greece with
her on holiday.

An unknown group last night claimed responsibility in Beirut for the gun and
grenade attack, which also injured 80 people. A statement said: 'The
Organization of Martyrs of the Popular Revolution in Palestine Abu Jihad Unit
launched a swift attack on tens of Zionist, American and British soldiers on
board the City of Poros.' A caller to a French radio station claimed
responsibility for Islamic Jihad.

Greek and Western counter-terrorism agents are working on the assumption that
the original aim of the guerrillas who stormed the ship was to free Rashid, who
is wanted in the US for the bombing of American passenger aircraft.

Rashid, aged 35, whose real name is Mohammed Haddam, was taken to court in
Athens yesterday under strong police escort to be tried on a lesser charge of
entering Greece on a false Syrian passport. Despite the attack, the Americans
remained committed yesterday to press ahead with his extradition.

According to US sources, he is a member of a military branch of the PLO.
Intelligence sources believe that the group may have forged links with the
hardline breakaway faction led by Abu Nidal.

The Greek security authorities are still looking for three Arabs, whose
photographs were released on Tuesday, said to have been connected with the
terrorist attack.

Hojatoleslam Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the Speaker of the Iranian
Parliament, last night denied any involvement by Tehran.

The Greek Merchant Marine Minister, Mr Evangelos Yiannopoulos, confirmed in
Parliament yesterday that the guerrillas returned on rescue boats and had not
escaped in a waiting speedboat as police initially reported.

Only four of the nine charred bodies found after the attack have been
identified.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 16, 1988

Ministers to launch attack on international terrorism: Greeks ready for more
coordination after City of Poros atrocities

BYLINE: By IAN BLACK

LENGTH: 488 words

DATELINE: ATHENS


Intelligence-sharing and other ways of combat international terrorism are
expected to feature prominently on the agenda when Sir Geoffrey Howe and other
EEC foreign ministers meet in Athens tomorrow in the aftermath of Monday's
attack on a Greek cruise ship.

The EEC foreign ministers will be convening here for a regular political
committee meeting under the chairmanship of their Greek colleague, Mr Karolos
Papoulias. Western diplomats said yesterday that anti-terrorist measures would
certainly be discussed in the light of the City of Poros outrage.


Other EEc countries have welcomed expressions of Greek readiness to liaise more
harmoniously in future depsite widespread criticism of lax security, a poor
record of solving terrorist incidents, and a tendency for courts here to mete
our lenient sentences.

'The Greeks do have a problem of coordination in this field,' one diplomat said,
'and one of the positive things to have come out of this terrible affair is the
fact that they now say they want to improve coordination with the rest of the
Community.'

Government spokesmen have insisted repeatedly this week that the Greek security
forces are as efficient as their European counterparts.

Foreign diplomats and many Greeks argue, however, that there has been disarray
in the country's internal security system since last month's Cabinet reshuffle,
when the Minister of Public Order, Mr Antonis Drossyannis, was replaced by a
lawyer, Mr Anastasios Sehiotis.

The diplomats say that Mr Drossoyannis, a former general with a reputation for a
tough appraoch to terrorism, may have fallen victim to political and
bureaucratic intrigues involving the head of the State Intelligence Service,
AYP, Mr Kistas Tsimas.

The Ministry of Public order controls the police, while AYP is an independent
authority answerable directly to the Prime Minister and head of the ruling Pasok
party, Mr Andreas Papandreou.

The Deputy Minister for Public Order, Mr Siphis Valyrakis, is said by his
detractors to have close Arab connections.

While most of the Greek press has called for a united front in combating
terrorism, some opposition papers have been quick to blame the government for
recent failures, including the continued activites by the Greek November 17
underground group, whose members assassinated an American naval attache last
month.

'Frequent changes of leadership and the handing out of power without any evident
logic all damage the credibility of the security forces and lead to a situation
which cannot be settled by a simple reshuffle,' commented the leftwing Avghi
newspaper earlier this week.

'That is now particularly clear in a ministry as important as that of public
order.'

Greek officials were unable to confirm a report that appeared in the Avriani
newspaper yesterday that police had detained one of the Arabs who participated
in the attack on the cruise ship.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              July 17 1988, Sunday

Slaughter at sea; Terrorist attack on Greek cruise ship City of Poros

BYLINE: SIMON FREEMAN and MARIO MODIANO

SECTION: Issue

LENGTH: 1744 words


EVERYONE in Greece who met Adnan Mohammed Sojod, a 21-year-old from Beirut,
agrees that he was a polite and agreeable young man. It mattered not that he
spoke only a few words of English; he just seemed very nice indeed.

'I did not think he could have hurt a fly, ' said Rosanna Tortorelli, from
Paris, who was on holiday in Greece last week.


She still finds it hard to accept that the young man, whom she met for the first
time last Monday on the City of Poros cruise ship as it pottered around the
Greek islands, would be capable of cold-bloodedly slaughtering and maiming
innocent tourists with bullets, grenades and plastic explosives.

Yet survivors of this massacre have identified Sojod as one of the terrorists
who turned a day's outing from the seaside resort of Paleo Faliro, a few miles
from Athens, into a nightmare. Greek intelligence officers believe that he
entered the country late in May on a Lebanese passport and that he was a veteran
member of the notorious Abu Nidal group, a breakaway faction of the Palestine
Liberation Organisation.

Six days after the massacre on the City of Poros, the involvement of Sojod
appears to be the one piece of undisputed evidence.

The investigation has been a muddled and unhappy affair. The various
bureaucracies in Greece involved in the inquiry including the police, the
ministries for public order, tourism and shipping, and port officials have
issued a stream of contradictory and often demonstrably inaccurate statements.

They have consistently leaked information designed to prove the efficiency of
the Greek security forces and to reassure tourists that Greece is still a safe
place to visit. On Friday evening, for example, a Greek newspaper with
well-known senior sources within the interior ministry claimed that Sojod had
been captured. Then Evangelos Yannopoulos, the Greek marine minister, further
confused the situation when he claimed that Roland Vigneron, a 28-year-old
French engineering student, had been identified as a terrorist by eight
passengers. Vigneron, said the minister, had died on Monday evening from wounds
sustained in the attack.

This allegation immediately provoked the French embassy here to demand further
details. But the Greeks' most unpardonable mistake was publicly to accuse
Isabelle Bismuth, a 21-year-old French woman who was with Tortorelli on the
ship, of being a terrorist. Her body was later identified from her dental
records in the mortuary.

But most of the key questions remain unanswered. Greek police still do not know
Sojod's motives. They do not know if he had any accomplices or how many there
were. They are not sure how many people died or if any of the eight or nine
badly charred and dismembered bodies in an Athens mortuary were terrorists. Nor
do they have any evidence that two men who died earlier last Monday, when a car
blew up at Trokadero, the home dock of the City of Poros, were part of the same
terrorist cell.

GREEK police know that Sojod spent last weekend at the three-star Avra hotel, in
the coastal town of Glifada, southwest of Athens, and that he bought a ticket
for the City of Poros's Monday voyage from a local travel agent.

Hotel staff told The Sunday Times that his passport had been issued in Beirut on
July 18, 1987.

'I remember him well. He was very quiet and no problem at all, ' said a
receptionist. 'He made no phone calls and had no visitors. Then early on Monday
he paid his bill.'

The City of Poros day trip, departing the mainland at 8.30am for a round trip to
the islands of Hydra, Poros and Aegina, included a light lunch on board. It is
popular with tourists who do not have time for the week-long cruises also
offered by shipping companies, and with locals who wish to escape the stifling
summer heat and choking traffic fumes of Athens.

Day trips like this have never warranted much security. The longer tourist boat
excursions are now surrounded by airport-style measures, including the presence
for the past two years of armed guards, but the City of Poros last week, like
all such boats, was the floating equivalent of an open-topped tourist bus in
London in the summer.

Several witnesses, who do not wish to be identified, have described seeing Sojod
arrive at the dock half an hour before the Poros was due to sail. He mingled
with 480 other passengers and found a seat below decks in the saloon.

He was carrying a blue bag or rucksack. 'He just put his feet up on a table and
sat there, ' said a fellow-passenger.

Two young women, Bismuth and her friend, Tortorelli, joined him and began
chatting. Throughout the day the trio flirted, providing an interesting
diversion for passengers in the saloon.

The young Arab seemed unconcerned about his rucksack, leaving it when the ship
stopped at Hydra and Poros. But at the final island, Aegina, he picked it up and
slung it over his shoulder.

He left the boat and, Greek police suspect, collected weapons and explosives on
the island before returning to the ferry. There are many conflicting reports of
what happened next.

Passengers have described hearing the sound of an automatic weapon, of seeing
just Sojod attacking his fellow passengers. Others say a group of men and a
woman hurled grenades. They have told of the ship shaking from much larger
explosions.

Greek scientists have not released their forensic reports so it is impossible to
know how many weapons and what sort of grenades or explosives were used.

The rescue operation was swift and laudably efficient. That evening, passengers
talked of the horror and the heroism of the crew and many passengers. One party
of English students from the Sion Convent School, Sussex, were praised for their
bravery and the help the gave to older passengers.

Tributes like this did not, however, help the police inquiry. By late on Monday
evening there was already confusion about the attack. How many terrorists had
there been? Some said three, some four, some five; some claimed to have seen men
in masks, others thought there had been a woman.

The Greeks, meanwhile, concentrated on helping the injured and, according to
Western intelligence analysts here, did not think it worthwhile to check if the
terrorists had hidden among the survivors.

GREEK sensitivity about the tragedy is understandable. The government is still
smarting from the catastrophic impact on

its tourist industry of a decree from President Ronald Reagan in 1985 that
Athens was not a safe place for Americans to visit. This warning, issued in the
wake of the hijack of a TWA jet, cost Greece millions of dollars. Thus last week
Athens spent much of its energy trying to reassure foreigners that everything
possible was being done to protect them from terrorists.

Analysing what happened last Monday is still difficult. In the absence of any
firm information about Sojod's accomplices, the Greeks have been forced to work
out some coherent theory.

They have, like other Western intelligence agencies, dismissed claims of
responsibility from Hezbollah, the pro-Iranian Shi'ite group, in Beirut. They
have also dismissed the notion that far left extremists from the November 17
organisation in Greece, believed to be behind the assassination of an American
defence attache here this year, could have been involved.

The one theory which, for the time being at least seems logical, centres around
a Palestinian called Mohammed Rashid who was being held in a Greek jail on
charges of entering the country on a forged passport and has now been sentenced
to seven months in prison.

In essence, this theory suggests that the attack on the City of Poros was a
botched effort to hijack the ship and hold the passengers hostage to ensure
Rashid's release. It is thought, say the Greeks, that the plan was hatched by
the Abu Nidal group, to which Rashid may belong.

Supporters of this theory argue that the two Arabs who died in the car bomb
explosion earlier on Monday were part of this plot and that they were intending
to join or reinforce the City of Poros once it had been captured by their
accomplices. But Athens is so rife with rumour that none of this is certain.

Members of the PLO mission here insist that Rashid is nothing to do with them.
But independent Western intelligence analysts believe Rashid is linked to the
PLO.

IT IS not a simple story but, in essence, it revolves around attempts by the
Greek government to work out a deal with Palestinians to ensure that Greece does
not become a battle ground for terrorists.

Critics of the socialist government of Andreas Papandreou say that the story
really begins in 1982 when a Palestinian was arrested in Greece while driving a
Mercedes loaded with explosives. The man was identified as a key member of the
Abu Nidal group and his extradition was subsequently requested by Italy in
connection with a bombing of a Rome synagogue.

But he was not extradited because Greece stalled, not wanting to offend the
Palestinians. Then another Abu Nidal activist was arrested after an abortive
attempt on the life of a Jordanian diplomat in Athens.

In October, 1987, The New York Times reported that the United States was furious
with the Greeks for negotiating with Abu Nidal a deal that would ensure Greece's
immunity from further terrorist acts in exchange for the release of the captured
terrorists. Papandreou immediately denied it and demanded an apology from the
Americans. But intelligence analysts here are certain that some elements of
Papandreou's party were involved in such talks with the Palestinians.

It is at this point that Rashid enters the scenario. He arrived in Athens late
in May and was immediately arrested, but it is now thought he came here
specifically to negotiate with the Greek government and that he was arrested
only after pressure from Washington.

This complex plot ends with Sojod moving in to 'teach the Greeks a lesson'
because they caved in to American pressure and arrested Rashid.

Now Papandreau is also being criticised from both the left and right in Greece
for his attitude towards terrorism. Greece accords equal respects to both the
PLO and Israel.

Greece wants to live quietly, but by playing both ends against the middle,
talking to terrorists while seeking to support the West's efforts to combat
them, has ensured only that Greece is firmly placed in the front line of
terrorism and it can do precious little about it.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 18, 1988

France and Greece clash over attack: Terrorist accusations cast shadow over EEC
meeting

BYLINE: By JOHN PALMER and PAUL WEBSTER

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: ATHENS and PARIS


A diplomatic row between the French and Greek governments over the way
authorities in Athens handled the terrorist attack on the City of Poros cruise
ship is overshadowing a meeting of EEC foreign ministers on foreign policy
co-operation.

The meeting, the first to be held under the Greek EEC presidency, begins in
Athens today.


The French Foreign Minister, Mr Roland Dumas, met the Greek Foreign Minister, Mr
Yannis Papoulias, in Athens yesterday to protests against Greek accusations that
a French student, Laurent Vigneron, who died in the attack, was one of the
terrorists. Earlier in the week, the Greeks had to withdraw similar allegations
against a 21-year-old French woman, Ms Isabelle Bismuth, who also died in the
attack.

Other EEC governments are also concerned at the manner in which the Greek
authorities have rsponded to the City of Poros incident, and at what they see as
the gerally lax attitude of the Greek Government to anti-terrorist security
policy.

The wider question of Middle East terrorism is bound to be raised when the
foreign ministers meet here today, and Mr Papoulias is certain to be asked about
details of the Greek inviestigation into the attack.

The Greek Prime Minister, Mr Andreas papandreou, has already publicly indicated
that stricter measures against international terrorism will be priority during
his government's six months' tenure in the EEC presidency.

Anti-terrorist specialists from other European countries have been analysing the
Belgian-made weapons found after the killings and believe they were bought by
Libyans. The strongest suspicion is that the Palestinian Abu Nidal group, which
has bases and 500 men in Libya, is involved.

According to French sources, the American FBI is convinced Abu Nidal was also
involved in the murder of a US naval attache in Athens this month.

Much of today's EEC meeting will be taken up with the wider polical issues of
unrest in the Middle East, including the shooting down by the United States of
the Iranian civil airliner over the Gulf. Earlier attempts by the EEC to issue a
statement deploring the incident were blocked by the British Government which
wanted some reference to America's right to act in 'self defence.'

However, in the past week there have been signs that Britain may be distancing
itself from its initially strongly pro-American line on the incident. It now
seems that the EEC will agree to send to Washington a fairly tough statement of
their concern that there should be no repetition of this kind of attack.

The foreign ministers are also expected to exchange views on Mr Gorbachev's
proposal endorsed by last week's meeting of the Warsaw Pact, for new summit
talks on further nuclear arms reductions in Europe.

Although the Warsaw Pact has now indicated that such talks need not involve only
European countries, but could also include the US, Britain is reluctant to agree
to any new negotiations until progress has been achieved in the Vienna
conference on security and co-operation in Europe.

It is also thought that talks on conventional arms reductions will get under way
before the end of the year. These discussions are being held up by a
disagreement over monitoring of human rights - thanks mainly to a refusal by
Romania to endorse an outline agreement.

Only when these talks have made progress will Britain agree to a further review
of nuclear disarmament. The French and West German governments seem ready to
respond more positively to the idea of a new dialogue with the Soviet Union as
suggested by Mr Gorbachev.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 16 1988, Tuesday

Thatcher to attack terrorist cash flow; IRA's funds

BYLINE: RICHARD FORD, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63161.

LENGTH: 716 words


The Prime Minister yesterday signalled her determination to crack down on the
Provisional IRA's funds and to curb paramilitary racketeering endemic in parts
of Northern Ireland.

Mrs Thatcher sought to counter strong Unionist criticism of the Government's
security policy by outlining a series of measures aimed at hitting the finances
of both 'loyalist' and republican terrorists in the province and cutting funding
to other terrorists and their supporters.


The Government also announced that it will decide by the end of this week
whether to order all servicemen's cars in Germany to switch to British number
plates, after high level meetings in Whitehall and at the joint Army and RAF
headquarters at Rheindahlen in West Germany yesterday.

Mr Archie Hamilton, Minister of State for the Armed Forces, emphasized to senior
officials at the Ministry of Defence that he wanted to announce a decision as
soon as possible because of concern over the shooting of Warrant Officer Richard
Heakin in Ostend last Friday.

The new laws aimed at halting the flow of financial support for terrorist
campaigns will be aimed at banks, financial institutions and

accountants suspected of handling funds used by the gunmen.

The measures will be similar to those introduced two years ago which enabled the
authorities to seize money made by drug traffickers. Ministers believe they have
had some effect in countering drug smuggling and that they could be one of a
number of effective measures that can be introduced in Northern Ireland,
particularly against the Provisional IRA.

A special force is to be set up in the province aimed at improving and
co-ordinating the fight against paramilitary racketeering and gangsterism, which
the Government fears is in danger of spreading from the loyalist and republican
heartlands. The anti-racketeering body will involve the Inland Revenue, Customs
and Excise and the Department of Social Security.

Many senior figures in the security forces believe that the bulk of the IRA's
support now comes from illegal business activities in the North and
racketeering.

However, fears now exist that the terrorists are moving from their traditional
districts to business and commercial areas, with apparently legitimate front
companies. A Minister said: 'We must try and combat this type of activity or
else it will spread across the province and undermine everything.'

Mrs Thatcher, in a letter explaining the plans to the Rev Martin Smyth, Official
Unionist MP for Belfast South, said a big review had been completed into
measures needed to combat paramilitary abuse in the letting of Government
contracts.

However, a significant problem will remain in getting evidence strong enough to
stand up in the courts. Few businessmen have been willing to co-operate with the
police, who have set up their own anti-racketeering squad, for fear of terrorist
reprisals.

In her letter to the Rev Smyth, the Prime Minister said: 'Our intention is to
broaden and strengthen the existing offences in the Prevention of Terrorism
(Temporary Provisions) Act 1984. They will apply to certain categories of
international terrorism as well as to Northern Ireland terrorism.

'The definition of the prohibited conduct will be expanded so that it will more
clearly cover the sort of activities and transactions carried on by banks and
other financial institutions, and accountants and other financial advisers.
Facilitation of the retention or control of terrorist funds will also be an
offence.

'On conviction of one of these offences it is proposed that the court may order
the confiscation of any money or other property which the convicted person had
intended would be used in connection with terrorism.'

The Prime Minister was replying to a letter from Mr Smyth questioning whether
western countries were doing enough to cut off international finance for
terrorist groups.

Yesterday's discussions over the future of military car number plates in Europe
focused on the security advantages of scrapping the distinctive British Forces
Germany registration plates.

According to Whitehall sources, officials agreed that the British forces number
plate on Mr Heakin's Vauxhall car was the crucial factor that led to his death
in Ostend.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           September 11 1988, Sunday

Kurds flee chemical terror into Turkey; Iraqi attacks on Turkey

BYLINE: MARIE COLVIN, Turkey/Iraq border

SECTION: Issue 8562.

LENGTH: 1256 words


A PATTERN of darkened skin around Dr Youssef Hamed's face gives it a mask-like
appearance. But it is not a tan. His skin has been discoloured from touching
chemicals on injured fellow Kurds he has tried to help.

Hamed had never treated victims of chemical attacks before and he did not have
the necessary medicines or equipment as he and thousands of other Kurds fled
over the harsh and mountainous terrain of northern Iraq toward the Turkish
border.


As the Iraqi army and air force pursued the columns of refugees with lethal
chemicals, Hamed found he was powerless to help the worst-affected victims. He
had to watch them die in agony.

'People died under my hands, ' he said. 'It took us one week to walk here. I
think in that time I saw 200 people die from the chemical weapons. There are
thousands dead, but we could not bring their bodies with us.'

Last week Hamed set up a makeshift canvas clinic in Uzundere in Turkey. What had
been a tiny Kurdish village a few miles inside Turkey from the border with Iraq
was transformed into a ramshackle and pathetic encampment as the Kurdish
refugees estimated at 100,000 streamed across the frontier.

Hamed ismwith about 10,000 men, women and children camped for miles along a dry
riverbed. Some families live under blankets strung across tree branches for
shelter, while others huddle in the open amid rugs they have piled up as
wind-breaks. Donkeys and horses are tethered among them.

The tale of Hamed's escape from his village of Kaefy in northern Iraq a horror
story echoed by other survivors indicates the enormity of the latest Kurdish
tragedy, and explains why the United States has rejected outright Iraq's denial
that it used chemical weapons against the Kurds. The American Congress is
pressing President Reagan to cut off Dollars 800m in credits to Iraq.

Hamed fled his home with a group of about 100 people. They met hundreds of
others walking or riding donkeys north. 'At Ismasewa, three people were
suffering from what I believe was nerve gas, ' he said. 'They were hallucinating
and could not move in a straight line. They vomited continuously and had severe
spasms of the body.' All three died within hours, despite his attempts to help.

His group was attacked after it joined an encampment on the banks of the Shein
River. 'I think there were 4,000 of us. The Iraqis came at 10pm in 20
helicopters and dropped chemical bombs on us. I think hundreds died. The women
and children were affected the worst. We had to leave their bodies behind.'

Judging by the injuries he has seen mostly skin and respiratory Hamed says Iraq
used chemical powders and gases such as Sarin against his countrymen. He said
few of those who were seriously injured reached Turkey. They were too weak to
walk over the mountain ranges to safety.

One of the few badly injured to reach Turkey was Mohammed Hussein, who says he
is 40 but looks 60. He said he was carried most of the way by friends. When I
saw him, he was lying under a tree outside the tent clinic in Uzundere.

His face, hands, arms, and chest were a mottled white, studded with scabs, some
of them still bloody. His forehead was edged with a dark, red-blue colour, and
his ears were scabbed and swollen. He coughed phlegm and scratched his arms as
he described the last stand at Lakh One, a large base in northern Iraq.

'We were 1,000 fighting about 2,000 Iraqi soldiers when suddenly I was enveloped
in a white cloud, ' he said.

'I don't know how it arrived. There was the smell of apples and I lost
consciousness. There were bodies everywhere. I can't remember any more. It felt
like the meat and muscle was coming off my bones, my eyeballs ached. My whole
body still aches.'

Another Kurdish refugee at Uzundere, Farhan Hussan, 25, says his village,
Meshirana, near Amedi, was attacked by Iraqi helicopters at night. 'First they
used flares. Then they dropped chemical bombs and there was some kind of gas
that settled down on to the ground.'

He said he pulled his scarf over his head as he fled. He saw at least 10 dead.
'My eyes and nose were crying continuously, ' Hussan said. 'I still don't know
where I am and I can't see very well.'

Iraq turned on the Kurds almost immediately after its August 20 ceasefire with
Iran. Refugees say gas attacks began five days later. In the three weeks since
then, Iraqi forces appear to have used chemical weapons extensively against
Kurdish civilians and fighters, known as Peshmergas literally 'those who face
death'.

The operation has reclaimed for Saddam Hussein, Iraq's president, about 4,000
square miles of northern Iraq which the Kurds had made a no-go zone for Iraqi
troops. Last Saturday the Iraqi flag was raised on the border for the first time
in five years.

Iraq's use of chemical weapons spread such terror that many of the refugees fled
from fear of chemical bombs rather than actual attacks. The large number of fit
young men in the camps demonstrates that the Iraqi tactics have devastated the
morale of the Kurdish guerrillas. Most admit they were fighters; almost none are
injured. As one told me: 'We have not lost because of a lack of bravery. We are
not afraid of fighting. We are afraid of chemical weapons.'

The flood of refugees has slowed to a trickle this weekend, but Kurdish sources
say 40,000 more are trapped in the Sidikan area in north-eastern Iraq, bordering
Iran. Forces of Masoud Barzani, the leader of the largest Kurdish group, the
Kurdish Democratic party, are fighting to hold on to this last pocket and find
safe passage for the trapped 40,000.

In Alan, a town of Turkish Kurds, dead bees litter the ground. Farmers say their
hives have been decimated by chemicals wafting across from Iraq. Villagers
complain they have had constant headaches in past weeks.

Conditions for refugees improved considerably last week as Turkey began
transporting them from the border camps to hastily constructed 'tent cities'
which have electricity, food and medical supplies. The government plans to
resettle all the refugees by the middle of the month.

About 2,000 Iraqi Kurds have been secretly transported to Iran, which has
offered sanctuary to all Kurds. These appear to have been fighters loyal to
Barzani. Few others want to go to Iran because they feel they were betrayed by
the regime, which supplied them with money and arms to fight Iraq during the
Gulf war but abandoned them after the truce.

None of the refugees trust the Iraqi president's offer of amnesty, announced
last week.

At the moment the Turks are pleased with their success in handling the influx of
refugees. Internationally, Turkey's offer of a safe haven to the Kurds will
counter its poor reputation on human rights issues, which stem particularly from
the treatment of its own Kurdish and Armenian populations.

But the permanent influx of more than 100,000 Kurds could be a problem in the
future. Separatist Turkish Kurds, of the Kurdish Workers party, have fought a
long battle for independence for the Kurdish areas of eastern Anatolia, where
the new refugees are lodged. The Turkish military fears that letting in tens of
thousands more Kurds, many of them battle-hardened veterans, could be a security
risk.

Turgut Ozal, the prime minister, at first insisted the Kurds were in Turkey
temporarily, probably only for a few weeks. But there are signs that the
government is beginning to resign itself to their more permanent stay. Officials
are now talking of preparing the tent cities for winter.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 21, 1988

Terrorist attack mars run-up to IMF meeting

BYLINE: By ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 228 words

DATELINE: BONN


Masked men yesterday fired shots at the car of a senior West German government
official in Bonn in what was seen as the beginning of a campaign of disruption
by militants and leftwing extremists directed at this week's International
Monetary Fund conference in West Berlin.

Mr Hans Tietmeyer, state secretary in the Finance Ministry, was not hurt in the
attack, which left his office car peppered with shotgun pellets. The incident
considerably heightened the temperature in the war of nerves between official
organisers of the IMF-World Bank conference and a number of alternative and
militant groups who have vowed to put a 'spoke in the wheel of capitalism.'


Mr Tietmeyer, aged 57, the righthand man of the Finance Minister, Mr Gerhard
Stoltenberg, had been helping to prepare the Berlin conference. He had just left
his home for work when the shots were fired from nearby woods.

Witnesses said they saw two masked men running from the scene. The Mercedes car,
which was not bullet proof, was damaged in about 10 places as Mr Tietmeyer dived
to the floor.

The incident occurred shortly before Mr Stoltenberg gave a news conference on
the IMF-World Bank meeting. Referring to the shooting, he said: 'We must assume
that this awful attack is linked to the Berlin conference.'

The annual meeting begins with closed-door sessions tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 22, 1988

Fears grow of terrorist attack at IMF meeting

BYLINE: By ANNA TOMFORDE

LENGTH: 736 words

DATELINE: BONN


Fears of further terrorist incidents during next week's annual meeting in West
Berlin of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have been
heightened by Red Army Faction claims yesterday that it carried out Tuesday's
shot-gun attack on a leading Bonn government official.

Sensitivity still surrounding the issue of terrorism - at its peak in the late
1970s - has recently been highlighted by an acrimonious debate over pardon
requests by two former Red Army terrorists now being examined by the President
Richard von Weizsacker.


The liberal MP, Mrs Hildagard Hamm-Bruecher, said yesterday that the Bonn attack
was bound to lead to confrontation between the state and hard-core militants
bent on wrecking the Berlin conference.

She described the recent events as 'depressing' because they prevented a
courageous tackling of the post-war terrorist trauma.

Mr Hans Tietmeyer, state secretary in the Finance Ministry, was unhurt in the
attack on his official car with a shotgun which the authorities said yesterday
had been stolen by the terrorists during an arms shop raid in 1984.

Police also found a full sub-machine gun magazine close to the scene of the
attack.

The finance official was described as responsible for 'genocide and mass misery
in the Third World,' according to letters received by several news agencies and
joint RAF and Italian Red Brigades statements. They claimed, as a delegate of
the IMF and the World Bank, Mr Tietmeyer had 'developed and forced through the
imperialist policy of annihilation through hunger and counter-insurgency.'

A 'Khaled Aker commander,' hitherto unknown to the security authorities here,
claimed responsibility for the attack. But the federal public prosecutor's
office in Karlsruhe said it believed the shooting was the work of individuals
acting in support of the terrorists, rather than an act carried out by the
'commando level' of the group.

'They are equipped with other things than shotguns,' a spokesman said.

Following the claims of responsibility, however, the federal criminal office
said it was looking for seven Red Army members.

It has offered a reward of Pounds 17,000 for tip-offs leading to their arrests.

Mr Otto Schily, the Greens MP and former defence lawyer, said he feared that the
recent events would entrench both the militants and the police in their
positions.

'This is typically German, there are uncompromising attitudes on both sides,' he
said, pointing to the 10,000-strong police force which has been assembled in
West Berlin to protect the 12,000 visitors expected for the conference.

Road blocks have been set up and people stopped in the street for spot identity
checks.

The Greens, Mr Schily said, had to accept some responsibility for the attack on
Mr Tietmeyer if they cooperated with groups whose declared aim was to 'fight
against the IMF conference.' Some 40,000 people are expected at a protest march
against the meeting in West Berlin on Sunday, and anarchist 'autonomous groups'
have vowed to use 'unusual means' to disrupt the subsequent conference.

Both Mr Schily and Mrs Hamm-Bruecher deplored the recent escalation, saying that
they represented a set-back for effforts to reintegrate former Red Army members
who had dissociated themselves from terrorism.

They regretted that the president, who had taken the unprecedented step of
making use of the right of pardon, was coming under increasing attack from
rightwingers in his own Christian Democrat Party and from the Federal Public
Prosecutor, Mr Kurt Rebmann.

Opinion polls show that a majority of West Germans are against releasing the
former terrorists from gaol.

Since Mr Von Weizsacker confirmed last week that he had received pardon requests
from Peter-Juergen Boock, aged 37, and Angelika Speitel, aged 36, letters by Mr
Rebmann which described the two prisoners as 'unworthy of mercy,' were leaked to
the press.

In them, Mr Rebmann suggests that the president was somewhat naive if he
believed that the 'terrorists' tactics' had mellowed, and said that Dr Von
Weizsacker was in danger of 'sacrificing his personal reputation and the dignity
of his office.'

The president, who has said that he will take a decision only after careful
consultation with all parties concerned, is said to have been outraged by the
publication of Mr Rebmann's correspondence with the Justice Ministry.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                          September 22 1988, Thursday

Security tightened after terror attack

BYLINE: From PATRICIA CLOUGH in Bonn

SECTION: Foreign News ; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 311 words


SECURITY precautions were in force yesterday for the forthcoming International
Monetary Fund congress in West Berlin as West Germany's Red Army Faction
terrorists claimed responsibility for Tuesday's attack on Hans Tietmeyer, State
Secretary in the Finance Ministry.

Letters received by several news agencies declared that the attack was the work
of a seven-member Khaled Aker Commando of the RAF. Masked gunmen shot at Mr
Tietmeyer's car but he and his driver escaped unhurt. A two-page pamphlet in
Italian which was sent with the letters confirmed links between the RAF and
Italy's Red Brigades. An identical pamphlet, bearing the symbols of both groups,
had been found in one of five Red Brigades hideouts discovered by Italian police
on 7 September. Documents found in the hideouts indicated that the two groups
had been planning two simultaneous attacks in their own countries, but that the
arrest of 21 alleged Italian terrorists had evidently foiled their plans. It was
speculated here that the attack on Mr Tietmeyer could have been the German part
of the plot.


Friedrich Zimmermann, the Interior Minister, yesterday told the cabinet about
the attack and suggested it could have been a failed attempt to kidnap Mr
Tietmayer. This possibility has arisen because witnesses report seeing a small
car and a motorcycle at the scene of the shooting. A reward of DM50,000 ( pounds
17,000) has been offered for information leading to the arrest of the seven
members of the group, and DM25,000 for tip-offs about where the terrorists are
hiding. In West Berlin, large contingents of armed police and plainclothes men
with armoured vehicles were patrolling the airport and the International
Congress Centre as the first of 12,000 participants from 151 countries started
to arrive for the congress and preliminary conferences.

Foreign News Page 10

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1988 Independent Print Ltd

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 13 1988, Thursday

Rabin's terror hint; Israeli troops attacked

BYLINE: IAN MURRAY

SECTION: Issue 63211.

LENGTH: 69 words


JERUSALEM

The second hand grenade within 24 hours was thrown at Israeli troops in Gaza
yesterday, leading Mr Yitzhak Rabin, the Defence Minister, to suggest that
Palestinians were 'beginning to return to terror' in order to prolong their
uprising in the occupied territories . The two grenades were both Soviet-made,
suggesting they had possibly been smuggled in from Syria. There were no
casualties.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 9 1988, Friday

Attack on Ulster terrorist broadcast ban is rejected; Parliament; House of Lords

SECTION: Issue 63260.

LENGTH: 398 words


Accusations that the Government's broadcasting ban on terrorist organizations in
Northern Ireland represented a serious incursion into the right of freedom of
expression were rejected by the Earl Ferrers, deputy Leader of the House of
Lords.

Opening a debate on the ban, he said that broadcasters remained free to report
the activities of such organizations and to report the actual words used by
their representatives. Only direct access was being restricted.


People did not wish to be subjected through a powerful medium to propaganda and
threats from the voices of terrorism. That was not what television and radio
were for.

'Nor do we accept that it was ever intended that the precious and privileged
resources of broadcasting should be used for this purpose.'

Lady Birk, for the Opposition, said that Labour believed that the ban
represented a fundamental attack on the freedom of expression.

'The Government appear to have shot themselves in the foot over this, giving
those who support terrorism a propaganda coup while at the same time throwing
the broadcasters into confusion.'

The Bishop of Manchester (the Right Rev Stanley Booth-Clibborn) said that there
was no justification for the methods of the IRA or of the Protestant
paramilitaries.

However, the IRA were now being handed a propaganda advantage on a plate. The
Government was getting dangerously near to eroding fundamental principles of
liberty.

Lord Aylestone (SDP), former chairman of the IBA, said that he and his party,
despite their extreme dislike of any censorship, felt that the Government had
had to bring in this directive, but they regretted that the BBC and IBA had not
taken action themselves.

Lord Ardwick (Lab) said that there were always good reasons for censorship.

'But there are always better reasons for fighting against censorship and
condemning it, so I cannot support the Government, wholehearted though I am in
the struggle against terrorism.'

Lord Jakobovits (Ind), the Chief Rabbi, said that much had been heard of the
threat to freedom of speech and erosion of civil liberties. But these arguments
were based on a moral fallacy and a grave misjudgement.

The defence against the menace of terrorists could no more rely on traditional
methods of fighting crime than one could prevail against chemical or nuclear
warfare with bows and arrows.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 30 1988, Friday

Terrorist attacks on aircrafts

SECTION: Issue 63272.

LENGTH: 106 words


The Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) broke away from the PLO
in December 1967 and was the first radical Palestinian group to carry out
violent attacks overseas. It hijacked an Air France jet to Entebbe in 1976, and
in 1980 said it had caused a bomb attack on a Paris synagogue.

The general command of the PFLP broke away in 1968 under Ahmed Jibril, a former
Syrian army officer. It put a bomb on a Swissair flight in 1970, which killed 47
people.


In 1986 Jibril said: 'Tell the entire world not to board Israeli or American
aircraft. From this day on we will not respect civilians who use them.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                           January 4 1989, Wednesday

Irish attack police use of terrorism Act

BYLINE: OWEN HUGHES and STEPHEN GOODWIN

LENGTH: 406 words


IRISH COMMUNITY leaders in Britain yesterday accused police of using the
Prevention of Terrorism Act to intimidate and harass Irish people and as a
public relations exercise that had no value as a weapon against the IRA.

Heads of Irish organisations said the powers of the Act allowing police to hold
suspects without trial for up to seven days were being used against innocent
Irish nationals and people of Irish descent living in Britain.


Their accusations came a day after Douglas Hurd, the Home Secretary, signed a
detention order for a person detained after police raids in London last weekend
in connection with the discovery of an IRA bomb factory in south London last
month.

It is the first such use of a detention order since a European Court of Human
Rights ruling last month declared that keeping anyone for seven days without
charges was illegal.

Bill Aulsberry, chairman of Haringey Irish Community Care Centres, said that
since the Prevention of Terrorism Act came into effect in 1974, 7,000 people had
been detained, but only 21 2 per cent had been charged with any offence.

'It is clear to me that the Act does not fight terrorism and it does not stop
it. It is used as a trawling exercise to terrify the Irish commmunity,' he
added. 'People are being arrested who have no obvious connection with politics.
Irish people are very worried because they feel the current atmosphere is just
like the mid- 1970s all over again.'

His comments were echoed in Liverpool by Tom Walsh, an officer with the
Federation of Irish Societies. He said: 'The Act is used where the police have
no firm evidence someone has committed a crime. In this case being Irish means
you are guilty.'

Scotland Yard has refused to disclose how many people were held after last
weekend's raids or the identity of the man under the detention order.

Tom King, Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, was last night challenged to
reveal representations made to him by Ulster judges on the abolition of the
right to silence for suspected terrorists, Stephen Goodwin writes.

Senior judges in the province made plain to Mr King their disapproval of the
change in the law by the recent Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order, but
the Secretary of State has refused to reveal details of the exchanges.

In a letter to Mr King, his Labour shadow, Kevin McNamara, called for an end to
the secrecy.

Home News Page 2

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                            January 20 1989, Friday

Greek terrorists step up attacks

BYLINE: From PETER THOMPSON in Athens

SECTION: Foreign News ; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 372 words


THE SHOOTING of a senior law officer in Athens on Wednesday, following a similar
attack 10 days ago, signals intensified action by the 'Revolutionary
Organisation of 17th November' and a further problem for the troubled government
of Andreas Papandreou.

Supreme Court Deputy Prosecutor Paniyotis Tarasouleas, 67, was in satisfactory
condition yesterday after an operation to remove a bullet from his thigh. The
earlier target was another Athens prosecutor, Costas Androulidakis, 51, who was
also shot three times in the legs at close range, the intention clearly being to
wound rather than kill. Both victims had handled investigations into financial
scandals which occurred under conservative governments before 1981: but those
suspected of diverting huge sums of public money into private pockets were never
tried.


In its proclamation claiming responsibility for the shootings, 17th November
charged Mr Papandreou's Pasok (Panhellenic Socialist Movement) government with
complicity in the pounds 130m Bank of Crete scandal that has rocked the country
in recent months, but accused the conservative New Democracy party, which ruled
from 1974 to 1981, of creating the conditions for such scandals and the
judiciary of systematically covering them up. The so-called independence of the
judiciary, it says, is 'a fairy tale for small children'.

Wednesday's attack was the 19th claimed by the group since it made its
appearance in 1975. Its victims - there have been 12 assassinations - have
ranged from American intelligence officers to prominent businessmen. But the
real headache for Mr Papandreou is that 14 of the attacks have taken place since
1985, and seven of them during the last year.

The police have had no success in tracking down the terrorists, leaving Mr
Papandreou vulnerable on the law-and-order issue with an election due by June at
the latest. As if indigenous terrorism were not enough, the government also
faces a dilemma over whether, in the face of strong American pressure, to agree
to the extradition of the alleged Palestinian terrorist Mohammed Rashid. A
Supreme Court hearing of the case is imminent but the final decision rests with
the justice minister.

Foreign News Page 9

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 23 1989, Monday

Death on Rock leak by press attacked; SAS shooting of IRA terrorists in
Gibraltar

BYLINE: TONY DAWE

SECTION: Issue 63298.

LENGTH: 277 words


Lord Windlesham, who headed an independent inquiry into the Thames Television
film on the SAS killings in Gibraltar of three IRA terrorists, says today that a
report that he has exonerated it gives only a partial impression of his
findings.

In a letter to The Times, the former Conservative minister says that 'premature
quotation from outdated drafts can only convey a partial impression of the
complexity of the issues and the conclusions we have reached about them'.


The letter signals renewed controversy about last year's killings which the
film, Death on the Rock, and opponents of the Government tended to suggest were
part of a 'shoot to kill' policy. Those claims were dismissed by an inquest jury
in Gibraltar which decided last September that the killings were lawful.

Publication of Lord Windlesham's final report, expected on Thursday, is certain
to cause debate in Parliament, where a storm developed last May over government
attempts to ban the programme.

In his letter, Lord Windlesham refers to an article in yesterday's Observer
which said his report concluded that the programme was thoroughly researched and
presented the evidence 'as fairly and accurately as possible'.

Lord Windlesham accuses the Observer of publishing selected parts of a
confidential early draft sent to Thames journalists for comments.

He adds that other people involved in his inquiry were also invited to comment
and that his final report takes into account all the remarks.

The report will be considered by the Thames board today and on Thursday will go
before the Independent Broadcasting Authority, which is expected to publish it.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 10, 1989

Prague warns of 'terrorist' network after bizarre attack

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SIMMONS

LENGTH: 217 words


The clock was turned back more than 20 years in Prague yesterday as the
Czechoslovak Communist Party announced tht 'terrorist' forces were trying to sow
chaos and disrupt everyday life.

The disclosure came in the Party newspaper, Rude Pravo, which reported that a
bomb of undisclosed size had damaged the town hall of Usti nad Labem, in
northern Bohemia.

Since bombs in private hands are unheard of in present-day Czechoslovakia, the
reaction in Prague was one of incredulity.

'It is an early April Fool,' said one doubting reader.

The newspaper did not say whether there had been any casualties, but it did say
that shop windows in the vicinity had been broken in the explosion.

There have been a number of anonymous threats to blow up schools, department
stores, and other public buildings, the newspaper said, from 'forces' who had no
inhibitions, and did not shrink from anything.

'We shall not conceal the fact that there are forces in Czechoslovakia which
will never reconcile themselves to our system,' it added.

According to observers in Prague, the report was intended to convince readers
that the demonstrators attacked last month for commemorating the death of Jan
Palach had been infiltrated, or were aligned with terrorists who sought change
by using bombs.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            February 20 1989, Monday

'Censorship by terror' attacked; Rushdie controversy

SECTION: Issue 63322.

LENGTH: 626 words


Viking Penguin condemned 'censorship by terrorism and intimidation' at the
weekend and attacked big bookselling chains in the United States that have
withdrawn Salman Rushdie's book from their shelves.

A spokesman for the publishers said: 'Unlike the major retailers, we have not
pulled in our horns. We have never stopped publishing and we are publishing in
relationship to changing demand, though demand is very difficult to gauge .. it
was inconceivable to the company that a writer should not be able to express his
ideas and that publishers should not be permitted to publish them and
booksellers sell them.'


He added:'If the present tendency continues, the Ayatollah will certainly have
prevailed. This is not censorship with respect to the First Amendment. This is
censorship by terrorism and intimidiation.' Waldenbooks and Dalton, the two
biggest chains of booksellers, and several other companies, have removed The
Satanic Verses from their shelves for what they say are security reasons.

Meanwhile, the Authors' Guild and the National Writers' Union called on
President Bush to condemn the threats by Iran against Mr Rushie and his
publisher, and threatened retaliation if any American citizen comes to harm.

'As far as we are concerned, Salman Rushdie and everyone connected with this
book is still living under a death threat, ' said Mr Robert Massie, the
president of the Guild, which described the threats as 'unique and horrifying
licence to murder'.

The Writers' Union announced that a demonstration would be held on Wednesday
against the edict outside the Iranian Mission to the United Nations in New York.
Writers then will picket the bookshops which removed the novel from their
shelves.

Kurt Vonnegut, the author of Slaughterhouse Five, said of Mr Rushdie's apology:
'I think he was right (to do it), not to save his own life, but to save the life
of shop assistants who might die in a bomb. Book runs should not be stopped.'

Cardinal John O'Connor of New York criticized both The Satanic Verses and those
who threaten its author and implied that Catholics should avoid reading the
novel.

In a statement to reporters after Mass at St Patrick's Cathedral, he expressed
respect for the religious beliefs of Islam but added that the Catholic Church
did not condone any acts of terrorism. But Mgr O'Connor stopped short of
ordering Catholics not to buy or read the book.

A spokesman said that the cardinal 'advised the Catholic people and others in
the same fashion that he advised Catholic people in regard to The Last
Temptation of Christ', the controversial novel and film on the life of Jesus.

In Belgrade, excerpts from The Satanic Verses appear in early editions of Borba,
the leading Yugoslav Communist Party newspaper, this morning. President Khamenei
of Iran arrives there today for a three-day visit, his first official trip to a
European nation. Yugoslav officials said that the book would be published in
Yugoslavia.

In Islamabad, the Pakistani capital, the president of the World Association of
Muslim Jurists, Mr Muhammad Ismail Qureshi, said yesterday that Mr Rushdie had
committed an offence against Islam that was unpardonable under Islamic law.

In Paris, 100 French and Arab intellectuals demonstrated outside the Chaillot
Palace yesterday in support of Mr Rushdie. They called Ayatollah Khomeini's
words a 'terrorist act'.

The Italian translation of Mr Rushdie's novel reached bookshops late on Friday
and had sold out in Rome and Milan by Saturday. The publishers, Arnaldo
Mondadori Editore Spa, have been given police protection.

In Rome yesterday, European press organizations condemned the order to kill Mr
Rushdie, describing it as an 'act of terrorism'.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                              March 5 1989, Sunday

Paris fears terror attack in Rushdie's wake; Rushdie controversy

BYLINE: BRIAN MOYNAHAN, Paris

SECTION: Issue 8586.

LENGTH: 711 words


IN the country with the largest Muslim community in western Europe, the Salman
Rushdie affair has kindled passions that are appalling French government and
community leaders. Nervous security chiefs fear that Paris is vulnerable to a
new wave of terrorist attacks.

Michel Rocard, the prime minister, who has gone further than Margaret Thatcher
in warning that any death threat to Rushdie would lead to arrests, has ordered
the security services to keep Islamic extremist groups under close surveillance.


The government went on the alert after Muslims demanding Rushdie's death staged
a demonstration in Paris last weekend which many French people found deeply
offensive. The demonstrators outraged French opinion by chanting death slogans
in the Place de la Republique, a symbol of the Revolution and of human rights.

Banners proclaimed 'We are all Khomeinists' and 'Down with Israel, down with the
USA'. One marcher said: 'Look at you, you Christians. With your passivity,
you've made your religion something that no longer exists.'

Politicians and moderate Muslims were horrified at the damage done to already
tense community relations by the demonstrators. The left-of-centre newspaper
Liberation, known for its sympathy and support for immigrants, commented: 'This
was more like a demonstration in Tehran than on the pavements of Paris'.

The Grand Mosque in Paris has been flooded with French callers complaining about
the marchers' arrogance and menace. But the Iranian embassy has done little to
calm their nerves. It issued a statement last week denying responsibility in
advance for any 'provocations and violent acts' that 'enemies of Islam' would
seek to blame on Iran.

Death threats were received last week by Veronique Sanson, the French pop
singer. Anonymous letters warned her not to sing her song, titled Allah, at the
big Olympia music hall in Paris. 'They said: 'If you sing that, Boum!' she
related.

One commentator asked: 'Should we be afraid of Islam?' A headline urged: 'Wake
up, Mohammed, they have all gone mad.'

Islam is the second religion in France. Estimates of the size of Muslim
community vary between 3-5m, well above the 1m Protestants and 800,000 Jews.

Security sources point out that Paris is the only European capital to have
suffered an indiscriminate terror campaign that originated in the Middle East.
Memories of the 1986 bombings that killed 12 and injured 150 have been stirred.

Security officials are worried by the spread of radicalism to previously immune
North African Arabs. Two of the Paris bombers of 1986 are North Africans who
picked up their militancy in France.

Particular attention is being paid to the 'Voice of Islam', the group which
organised the Paris demonstration. It is led by Farid Abud Gabteni, a
32-year-old Franco-Tunisian. He describes himself as 'the slave of God'. He
denies that he is influenced by Iran but recently visited Tehran. The
fundamentalists' centre in Paris is the Omar mosque in the Stalingrad section of
the 19th Arrondissement. It is frequently visited by diplomats from radical Arab
embassies.

Moderate Muslims, however, are embarrassed by reactions to The Satanic Verses.
'If we had paid less attention to this book, it would have had no success and
there would be no argument, ' said Sheikh Abbas of the Grand Mosque in Paris.
'But unfortunately we have given this disrespectful writer and his doomed book
more attention than they deserve.'

Any concept of an Islamic fifth column in France is meat and drink to the
far-right National Front, which is campaigning for next Sunday's municipal
elections. Jean-Marie Le Pen, its leader, has lost no time in exploiting it.

He told a crowded election meeting last week that, when the demonstrators turned
to pray to Mecca in the Place de la Republique, 'it was in fact a declaration of
war'. He said the attitude of some Muslims in France was 'a political and
religious provocation under the orders of a hostile state.'

An exhibition on eroticism and sexuality in the Arab Muslim world is due to open
at the Pompidou Cultural Centre on March 15. It is not yet known what the
fundamentalists will make of its coverage of 'polygamy, the life of eunuchs, and
sexual perversion'.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             March 7 1989, Tuesday

Bombers who rock the animal rights campaign: Mark Gold on the effects of the
Bristol University terrorist attack

BYLINE: MARK GOLD

SECTION: Letters ; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 854 words


WHEN the Animal Liberation Front claimed responsibility for the bomb which
exploded at Bristol University last month it was legitimate groups such as
Animal Aid which suffered most, not scientists who support animal experiments.
Years of peaceful campaigning were threatened by one half-witted yet dangerous
act.

Nor does it help when articles such as Colin Blakemore's 'Animal Rights, Human
Wrongs' (The Independent, 2 March) begin by blaming animal rights supporters for
'smear campaigns' against scientists, and then offer a smear campaign against
Animal Aid in its place. The gist of his argument is familiar: it is
hypocritical of Animal Aid to condemn events such as the Bristol University
bombing because it encourages violence by making people think about the issues
discussed in its leaflets and at demonstrations.


This raises a question about the difficulties of pressure groups faced with a
tiny minority of mindless fanatics who may distort their message and use it as
an excuse for terrorism. We are taking the problem increasingly seriously, but
should a rapidly growing organisation such as Animal Aid be held responsible
because a handful of those who support its aims ridicule its message?

Animal Aid's opposition to violence has been stated unequivocally. The police
know it is genuine and so, hopefully, does most of the public. Our finances and
files are completely open to scrutiny.

Ironically, the scientists have added weight to our ethical stance by proving
conclusively the similarities between humans and other animals. We now know that
animals experience emotions similar to our own - joy, sorrow, maternal love,
enjoyment of the company of their own species and, most importantly, mental and
physical pain. Surely, all this points to the need for a new ethic in our
treatment of animals?

To give one pertinent example, in his television series The Mind Machine
Professor Blakemore referred to primates as 'our cousins', yet in his
laboratories he has conducted sight deprivation experiments including keeping
monkeys with one eye stitched closed for up to five years before killing them.
In other experiments he has stitched up both eyes.

Opportunity to contest the assertion that it is animal experiments which will
provide cures for 'remaining killer diseases' would be welcome. Why, for
example, did a Ciba-Geigy survey reveal that 95 per cent of drugs certified
'safe' after animal tests have to be withdrawn after trials on human patients?
Why does medical history prove that the nineteenth century equivalents of
today's killer diseases were on the decline long before any medical treatment
was available? Why has the British Medical Journal warned that 'data from
research on animals could not be used to develop a treatment for human tumours'
because of major species differences? Why have American ophthalmologists
concluded that only 15 per cent of research into eye diseases is of any clinical
value? Clearly, the issues are rather more complex than is suggested by
Professor Blakemore.

The bulk of our work involves providing information on how animals are abused,
and advice on how to find 'cruelty-free' products. We actively urge our
supporters to stick to peaceful methods of campaigning. In response to the
Bristol bomb, however, we are now thinking of reappraising some of our methods.
It is Animal Aid that suffers most from violent action - not only because we
have to endure the false accusations of pro-vivisectionists, but also because it
is forcing us to curtail what we consider legitimate exposes of what goes on in
secrecy, paid for by public money.

There is some common ground between pro- and anti-vivisectionists. We too 'hope
to God' that the Bristol bomb marks a turning point in the animal rights issue.
We want to see an end to the violence, and although our message is crucially
different, we agree with Professor Blakemore that 'education of public opinion'
is the real answer to terrorism (and animal experiments).

It is the educational work of groups such as Animal Aid that has already partly
changed society's attitude to animals. Battery hens, cosmetic experiments,
badger baiting and hare coursing are just four of the issues which would not
have come to public attention without the animal rights movement.

Even Professor Blakemore has said that 'huge numbers of animals, unbelievable,
incomprehensible numbers of animals, are slaughtered in rather obscene
conditions simply to satisfy a desire for a certain type of protein,' an opinion
I suspect he owes to our educational work.

Admittedly, only a minority - a growing minority - supports our long-term vision
of a world where animal exploitation is considered with the same horror as the
slave trade. To some, this view may still seem extreme. Yet is it really
justified to speak of 'the evil menace of the animal rights movement' when the
vast majority is wholly committed to changing the world by logic and persuasion,
rather than by bombs and terrorism?

The author is director of Animal Aid and author of Living Without Cruelty.

Letters Page 19

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 8, 1989

Iranian terrorist squads 'plan French attacks'

BYLINE: By PAUL WEBSTER

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: PARIS


An emergency inner cabinet meeting to discuss special security measures was
called by the Interior Minister, Mr Pierre Joxe, yesterday, after warnings that
France could be attacked by Iranian extremists because of the Salman Rushdie
affair.

Reports that terror squads were planning reprisals in France were supported by
the head of Europe's Muslim Shi'ite community, Ayatollah Mehdi Rouhani, who said
that fanatical Muslims and other people were ready to come to France to carry
out 'dozens of attacks'.

'These attacks are inevitable because some Muslims are no longer ready to listen
to anyone, even Ayatollah Khomeini,' he said.

'It is not in France's interest to support Rushdie in the face of the entire
Islamic world. I have asked the French authorities to forbid the publication of
the Satanic Verses.' The book's release has been held up by the publishers,
Presses de la Cite.

Mr Joxe said that while there was no cause for panic, special security measures
were being planned. These could be based on initiatives taken in 1986 after
pro-Iranian extremists killed 13 people and injured more than 200 in a wave of
bombings.

France has apparently angered Iran by organising support for Britain inside the
EEC. The French Foreign Minister, Mr Roland Dumas, led demands for the
withdrawal of all European ambassadors and has asked for the Rushdie issue to be
included on the agenda for a foreign ministers' meeting in Brussels on March 20.

France has felt in a strong position to defy Iran because there are no longer
any French hostages held by pro-Iranian groups in Lebanon.

Meanwhile, the new Virgin store on the Champs Elysees has withdrawn a record by
the French singer, Veronique Sanson, which includes a song called Allah.

The song, which calls on God to intervene to relive misery in the Third World,
has also been withdrawn from her programme at the Olympia concert hall after
death threats.

Thailand will ban the Rushdie novel after protests by Muslims, a senior police
official said yesterday. About 200 Muslims rallied peacefully outside the
British Embassy in central Bangkok and delivered a letter urging Britain to stop
protecting Mr Rushdie.

Bangladesh's President, General Hossain Mohammad Ershad, yesterday demanded the
trial and punishment of Mr Rushdie. 'The Satanic Verses is part of a conspiracy
against Islam and its holy prophet Mohammed,' he said. 'Freedom of expression is
one thing; hurting peopole's religious sentiment is another.'

Egypt's Nobel literature laureate, Naguib Mahfouz, criticised the book yesterday
as an unthinking diatribe which should be ignored.

Demands by Muslim immigrants in Holland for Mr Rushdie's death could inflame
anti-immigrant sentiments in a country long proud of its tolerance towards
others, Dutch politicians said yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 24 1989, Friday

Jail hunger strikes raise Bonn fears of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: From IAN MURRAY, Bonn

SECTION: Issue 63350.

LENGTH: 778 words


In a hunger strike modelled on the IRA's H-block protests in 1980, two
imprisoned members of the Red Army Faction have now gone 52 days without food
and their condition is causing concern.

Doctors say the lives of the left-wing extremists will be in certain danger from
today.


Should they die, police are bracing themselves for a spate of violent
demonstrations and terrorist attacks similar to those of Aril 1981, after Sigurd
Debus not even a faction member starved himself to death.

There were also widespread demonstrations in November, 1974, after Holger Meins,
one of the original members of the Baader-Meinhof gang the forerunner of the Red
Army Faction died after being force-fed. The extremists have used hunger strikes
as a regular form of protest to maintain support and sympathy.

There have been 10 hunger strikes so far and they last staged a significant one
from December 4, 1984, to February 5, 1985.

The present strike, however, has been better planned and indicates that the
prisoners are somehow in contact with each other, even though one of their main
complaints is that they are refused permission to meet and talk together.

About 50 prisoners in six prisons have been giving support to Karl-Heinz Dellwo
and Christa Ecks, who have been fasting now since February 1, refusing to eat
for periods of up to a fortnight.

Helmut Pohl, another imprisoned faction leader, has warned in a statement
published in the Tageszeitung that others will immediately take the place of any
who die, so that there will always be at least one prisoner in a critical
condition to keep pressure on the authorities.

Outside the prisons, radical groups, led by the green and communist parties, are
organizing demonstrations in support.

The biggest of these so far occurred last Friday in Hamburg where 4,000
(according to police) or 8,000 (according to the organizers) staged a four-hour
peaceful demonstration. About 3,500 police kept a careful watch and many of the
demonstrators wore black masks to avoid being recognized.

Their demands are for an end to what they call 'isolation imprisonment', which
is not solitary confinement but a refusal to allow all members of the group to
serve their sentences together in a kind of political prison. They are kept very
much apart from one another and are allowed to mix only with the ordinary
criminals.

The two who starved themselves to death in the past did so for very much the
same kind of rights now being demanded by the 27 group members still in prison.

However, security sources believe the campaign is motivated by a desire to rally
the faction's dwindling support.

According to Interior Ministry figures, there are now no more than 20 hardcore
members of the faction at large, plus another 250 sympathizers.

The level of terrorist attacks of the type the group carried out has been
steadily falling. The Government believes its firm line has helped and will not
give way.

The Social Democrat opposition supports the Government over this matter,
especially as prison authorities in the six areas where faction members are held
have been ensuring that they are given all normal privileges.

Ecks is allowed 10 daily newspapers or magazines, a typewriter, radio and
television, and access to a canteen and games room during the eight hours a day
she is allowed out of her cell. Now in a prison hospital, in accordance with a
court decision earlier this year, she will be charged with the cost of the
medical care she requires because her condition is self-inflicted.

West German law on forced feeding has been changed since the 1974 death and it
is no longer allowed. However, nourishment can be given to anyone who loses
consciousness and who the authorities believe would otherwise have asked for
food.

Only the Greens have been pressing in the Bundestag for negotiations with the
faction prisoners. But given the implacable stand by the Government, police feel
that there is a real danger of a wave of terrorist attacks if any of the hunger
strikers die.

In Frankfurt, about 30 supporters of the hunger strikers have been occupying
Greens' offices for a month, running an 'information bureau' and planning a
demonstration in the city on April 1.

Police raided the offices this week and have started criminal proceedings
against a number of the supporters for backing a terrorist group.

The Justice Minister told the Bundestag last week that nobody must die, either
in or out of prison, as a result of the hunger strikes.

It remains to be seen whether the Government can win what could be the last
trial of strength with the faction.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                              April 3 1989, Monday

Bomb attacks fuel fears of Albanian terrorist campaign

BYLINE: From PETER HUMPHREY of Reuters

SECTION: Foreign News ; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 547 words


BELGRADE - Bombs were thrown at a troop lorry in Kosovo province and at a
newspaper office at the weekend in the first indication that ethnic Albanians
are turning to guerrilla warfare in their struggle against Serbian dominance.

The bombs reinforced a view among Western sources that terrorist attacks at home
and abroad are likely to develop out of the rioting, which last week claimed at
least 24 lives. The riots, over curbs by Serbia on Kosovo's self-rule, were the
worst ethnic bloodshed in Yugoslavia since the Second World War. 'There are now
clear signs Yugoslavia will be faced with a domestic and international terrorist
campaign by Albanians against Serbian rule in Kosovo,' a Western source said.


A bomb lobbed by Albanian separatists at a troop truck in the province on
Saturday narrowly missed and exploded harmlessly on the road, according to a
police source. The incident happened at Suva Reka, 160 miles south of Belgrade,
and the scene of some of the worst rioting. Local residents said army tanks and
armoured cars with machine-guns mounted on their turrets were later stationed
outside the town. Kosovo is under curfew with thousands of riot police and
troops patrolling the province.

On Saturday night a bomb exploded outside the Serbian newspaper Politika's
bureau in Osijek, 110 miles northwest of Belgrade in the republic of Croatia,
Tanjug news agency said. Nobody was hurt and there was no immediate claim of
responsibility for the blast, the first reported anti-Serbian act of violence in
Yugoslavia outside Kosovo.

'State authorities in Kosovo and Yugoslavia think militant and fanatical
elements of the Albanian separatist movement will continue their attempts to
recruit even more Albanians for an uprising,' the Yugoslav federal newspaper
Borba said on Sunday. 'They are even now working out tactics of terrorism and a
new armed uprising, including taking to the hills.' The Serbian newspaper
Politika Ekspres said without giving details that over the weekend there were
two 'provocations against army units' at Dragas, a village near Albania.

Serbs are the country's largest national group, numbering eight million
throughout Yugoslavia but forming a 200,000 minority in Kosovo alongside the
province's 1.7 million Albanians. Serbia reduced Kosovo's autonomy in order to
carry out a crackdown on Albanian nationalists whom it accused of persecuting
Serbs.

That crackdown went one step further on Saturday when Kosovo's Communist Party
Central Committtee ordered an intensive purge of officials who supported
Albanian nationalists and separatists. It said the purge must be completed by 20
April. It expelled from the party Azem Vlasi, the former Kosovo Party leader who
was arrested a month ago and accused of counter-revolution, which carries a
maximum penalty of death.

At a news conference yesterday in Kosovo, Baskim Hisari, a member of the
provincial Politburo, said 400 people were arrested during the riots. He said
calm was returning, although some Albanians still shouted slogans and wrote
nationalist slogans on walls. 'Much remains to be done,' Mr Hisari said. He said
the dead included victims aged from 16 to 54, from all walks of life, from
school pupils to a retired worker.

Foreign News Page 11

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 9 1989, Tuesday

Terrorist shot after bomb attack on van; Northern Ireland

BYLINE: JAMIE DETTMER, Irish Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63389.

LENGTH: 301 words


(Photograph) - An IRA terrorist was shot and critically wounded yesterday after
carrying out a bomb attack on two Ulster Defence Regiment soldiers near the Co
Tyrone town of Clogher.

The UDR soldiers suffered minor injuries when their unmarked van was blown on
its side by a land-mine detonated by a command wire. Debris was scattered over
adjacent fields.


Within minutes of the attack, one member of the two-man IRA team who operated
the command wire was shot by an unidentified man. The second terrorist escaped
on foot.

The bombing took place at 10.30am at Thompson's Cross, just south of the village
of Seskinore. According to police, the terrorists made their escape on a
motorcycle, but abandoned it near a farm. It is believed the terrorists, both
masked, entered the farm's yard to hijack a car.

A man at the farm, who is understood to be a part-time UDR soldier, shot one of
the terrorists in the face. The second man fled across fields. The injured man
was transferred last night to a hospital in Belfast, where he underwent
emergency surgery. He was described as being in a 'very serious condition'.

Both terrorists are believed to be members of the IRA's mid-Tyrone brigade,
which has suffered big losses in the last year. Last August, the SAS ambushed
and shot dead three senior members of the brigade, including Gerard Harte, the
brigade's then commanding officer, at Drumnakilly. Other Tyrone members were
killed in the SAS ambush at Loughgall in 1987.

Last summer, the IRA's Tyrone brigade killed eight British soldiers when they
bombed an army bus at Ballygawley.

The IRA yesterday repeated its weekend claims that it had abandoned a 1,000lb
bomb in the Tyrone village of Moy. Last night, the security forces re-opened the
area after a 38 hour search.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                The Independent

                             July 13 1989, Thursday

The definition of terrorism becomes Israel's gauge: Should the Palestinian
attack on an Israeli bus be termed a terrorist act? Charles Richards in
Jerusalem looks at a new diplomatic conflict

BYLINE: From CHARLES RICHARDS in Jerusalem

SECTION: Foreign News ; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 424 words


AS A sub-theme to Thursday's Bus 405 incident, in which a Palestinian forced an
Israeli bus off the road killing 14 passengers, the Israeli Foreign Ministry has
been spearheading a campaign to get it condemned internationally as a terrorist
attack.

The cabinet on Sunday issued a communique expressing astonishment at the lack of
sensitivity displayed by some countries - which was clearly meant to include the
US - in not branding the affair an act of terrorism. Yesterday the Foreign
Ministry brought out some of the American survivors of Bus 405: 'If that wasn't
an act of terrorism', declared a woman from Kansas City, 'I don't know what is.'


Later in the day, the US State Department spokesman said that 'there is now
enough information to call it an act of terrorism . . . (it was) clearly
pre-planned, and it was clearly an act of violence against innocent civilians. I
think in everybody's mind that would constitute an act of terrorism'.

The Israeli Foreign Ministry welcomed the decision. Since it was taken over by
Moshe Arens and his deputy, Binyamin Netanyahu, the ministry has been sniping at
the US at every turn over its decision to open a dialogue with the PLO. One
condition of the dialogue was that the PLO should renounce terrorism. Israel
wishes to demonstrate that the PLO is violating the conditions for that
dialogue.

The US delayed its decision over Bus 405 for lack of evidence. Their prudence
was not misplaced. The initial reports were wrong. Police Commissioner David
Kraus told reporters that the father of the assailant, Abdel Hadi Ghoneim, was
on the bus, suggesting there was an accomplice, who was under arrest. He was
not. The father had been dead over a year. And the driver said the man had cried
'Allahu Akbar' (God is Most Great) as he wrenched the wheel, suggesting an
Islamic motive. He did not. He cried 'Radwan', the name of his friend who was
shot by Israeli troops in the spine and paralysed and who he visited each day at
East Jerusalem's Makassed hospital. Revenge for the crippling of his friend, not
Islamic fervour, was the motive.

Israeli officials are still upset that neither Britain nor France has condemned
the attack. They are beginning to appreciate that they can no longer count on
European sympathy for what they consider a black and white moral issue. For this
act is regarded by many outside Israel as one of revenge - an understandable
reprisal for wrongs suffered during 19 months of Israeli repression of the
popular uprising.

Foreign News Page 14

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1989 Independent Print Ltd

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            July 19 1989, Wednesday

Breakthrough in IRA terror hunt; Bomb attacks in W Germany

BYLINE: PHILIP JACOBSON, EDWARD GORMAN and MICHAEL EVANS

SECTION: Issue 63450.

LENGTH: 669 words


The appearance of five suspected IRA terrorists at two court hearings in Paris
and Dublin yesterday was being hailed as a big breakthrough in the hunt for IRA
active service units known to be planning bomb attacks on British servicemen in
West Germany.

The three suspects arrested by French intelligence officers last Friday near the
border with West Germany were charged yesterday. They were named by the public
prosecutor's office in Paris as Patrick Murray, aged 45, Donagh O'Kane, aged 29,
and Pauline Drums, aged 22.


They told the prosecutor: 'We are soldiers of the Irish Republican Army. We
won't say anything. We have nothing against France.'

A senior Western intelligence source earlier said that Murray, who has the words
'God save the Pope' tatooed on his arm, was wanted for questioning about the
1984 bombing of the Grand Hotel, Brighton, during the Conservative Party
conference.

They were charged behind closed doors with associating with known criminals,
falsification of identity cards and official documents and possession of
'materials capable of being used in the preparation of explosives'. The three,
who appeared before M Gilles Riviere, the examining magistrate, were charged
also with 'offences in relation to a terrorist undertaking'.

In Dublin, Leonard Hardy, aged 28, of Belfast, and Donna Maguire, aged 22, of
Newry, who were charged last week with possessing an explosive substance and 10
mercury tilt switches, were remanded in custody until October 17.

They were arrested at Rosslare leaving a ferry from France with false passports.

Their arrest led to the discovery of the three in France.

Det Insp Kevin Carty, a senior Irish anti-terrorist officer, told the
anti-terrorist Special Criminal Court in Dublin yesterday: 'They had unique
knowledge that was too valuable for the Provisional IRA to lose.

'They are members of the Provisional IRA, part of a group operating and engaged
in criminal activities outside the jurisdiction on behalf of that organization.
It has international connotations.'

Security sources believe the five charged are members of active service units
who may have been involved in a number of recent attacks, viewed as the start of
a summer bombing campaign.

The arrest of Murray is seen as significant because he is regarded as a top IRA
'soldier', wanted since 1983 when warrants were issued for his arrest in
connection with an attempt to bomb a public house near an Army barracks at
Weeton, Lancashire.

Murray, from Co Mayo, was accused of conspiracy to cause explosions with Patrick
Magee, who was jailed for life for the bombing of the Grand Hotel when five
senior Tory figures were killed.

Police who investigated the Brighton bombing believe Murray was with Magee,
acting as his minder under the alias of Burke, when he planted the hotel bomb.

Murray, who served with the Royal Marines in the mid-1960s in Borneo, is wanted
in Dublin after failing to answer charges three years ago arising from an
alleged shooting incident at a flat in the Coolock area of the city. The Irish
police described him as 'extremely dangerous'. A police report referred to him
as 'an active member of the Provisional IRA'.

Security sources in Paris said no weapons or explosives had been found in
searches of addresses in the capital and elsewhere after the arrests.

It was the combined efforts of Irish, French, British, and West German
anti-terrorist officers and intelligence agencies that led to the arrests and
the possible removal of an entire IRA active service unit basing itself in
France for attacks on the Continent. The Royal Ulster Constabulary supplied a
list of suspects.

It is believed that up to five IRA groups may be at large.

Investigations are continuing into the murder of Corporal Steven Smith of the
Royal Tank Regiment after a car bomb explosion in Hanover on July 2 and the
planting of five bombs at the British Army's Quebec barracks at Osnabruck in
West Germany on June 20.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           August 10, 1989, Thursday

TERRORISTS MAY ATTACK MAINLAND, YARD WARNS

BYLINE:  Michael Chilvers, Press association.

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 123 words


Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad today issued a warning that a bombing
campaign on the British mainland to mark the 20th anniversary next Monday of the
deployment of troops in Northern Ireland could not be ruled out. Detectives
urged the public to be extra-vigilant during "this emotive time in Ireland's
history".  A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "Attacks on the mainland against
commercial and other non-military targets during this period cannot be ruled
out." He urged people to be on the lookout for suspicious packages, especially
on the London Underground, on buses and in department stores where a bomb would
cause the most casualties.  Anyone spotting such a package or anything
suspicious should dial 999 immediately.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            August 11, 1989, Friday

TERRORISTS MAY ATTACK MAINLAND, YARD WARNS

BYLINE:  Michael Chilvers, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 99 words


Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad says it cannot rule out a bombing campaign
on the British mainland to mark next Monday's 20th anniversary of the deployment
of troops in Northern Ireland. Detectives last night urged the public to be
extra vigilant during "this emotive time in Ireland's history".  A Scotland Yard
spokesman said: "Attacks on the mainland against commercial and other
non-military targets during this period cannot be ruled out." He warned people
to be on the lookout for suspicious packages, especially on the London
Underground, on buses and in department stores.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1989 The Press Association Limited

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            August 29 1989, Tuesday

Labour 'soft on terrorists'; Law policy attacked

BYLINE: NICHOLAS WOOD, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63485.

LENGTH: 309 words


Labour is unwilling to face up to terrorist bombers or snipers, a government
minister claimed yesterday in an attack on the Opposition's 'dangerous' and
'irresponsible' plans for law and order.

Mr John Patten, Minister of State at the Home Office, intensified the
Conservatives' belated summer onslaught on Mr Neil Kinnock's policy review by
maintaining that Labour was soft on terrorism and intended to interfere with the
traditional independence of the police and the judiciary.


Mr Patten said: 'Labour claim that their policy review makes the party fit to
govern once again.

'But a closer reading of the review document reveals that on the most crucial
testthe maintenance of law and orderthey are as irresponsible as ever.

'The policy review attacks the independence of the police, magistrates and
Neighbourhood Watches, and fails to face up to terrorism.'

Mr Barry Sheerman, Labour's frontbench spokesman on police, prisons and crime
prevention, dismissed the minister's attack as 'a bit of late-summer,
ill-tempered, ill-judged hyperbole' indicative of a government in 'deep
trouble'.

He said that in the light of a succession of European Court rulings critical of
Britain's anti-terrorist laws, policies had to change. Mr Patten said the
Opposition's plan for elected police authorities meant that power over policing
decisions would be given 'to the very Labour local authorities who continually
attempt to undermine and obstruct' them.

'The independence of our police forces would be swept away at a stroke, ' Mr
Patten said.

He also accused Labour of planning to interfere with the independence of
magistrates through its call for a new selection and appointments system for
them.

It also wanted to bring the country's 75,000 Neighbourhood Watch schemes for
fighting crime under council control, he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 26 1989, Tuesday

Relatives to decide sentence; Terrorist attack in Sudan

BYLINE: ROBIN STACEY

SECTION: Issue 63509.

LENGTH: 175 words


Close relatives of five Britons murdered in a terrorist attack in Sudan last
year are to help to decide whether the killers should live or die.

In a decision annnouced yesterday, the Sudanese Supreme Court has ruled that the
fate of five Palestinians convicted of murdering the Britons and two Sudanese in
a machine-gun and grenade attack on a small club and hotel in Khartoum should be
decided by the victims' relatives.


Four of the dead, Mr Christopher Rolfe, his wife Clare, and their children
Thomas, aged three, and Louise, aged one, were from one family. Mr and Mrs Rolfe
were Quaker missionairies. Another British victim was a teacher, Miss Sally
Rockett.

Last night Mr E J D Rolfe, Christopher's father, said he had no doubt his son
would have forgiven the terrorists for their actions.

Sentence on the terrorists, who were from a group called the Arab Revolutionary
Cells, was commuted from execution to one whereby the victims' relatives can
decide whether the men be executed, ransomed for money, or pardoned.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 23 1989, Monday

Firebomb terror attacked by Baker; Welsh extremists

BYLINE: PAUL WILKINSON

SECTION: Issue 63532.

LENGTH: 330 words


Three attempted firebomb attacks by Welsh extremists on Conservative Party
offices in central London at the weekend have been strongly condemned by Mr
Kenneth Baker, the party chairman.

He said they were 'another example of the total disregard for innocent people
shown by terrorist organizations'.


Two of the devices were found outside offices connected to the party, but one
was delivered to the wrong address and was discovered on the doorstep of a
private house in Allen Street, Kensington.

All three were made safe by Anti-Terrorist Squad officers.

'Although the devices may have been crude, they could have caused serious
injury, ' Mr Baker said.

The firebombs were found after an anonymous telephone call to Mr Alun Lennie, a
BBC radio reporter, at his home in Camarthen, west Wales.

The caller was allegedly representing Meibion Glyndwr the Sons of Glendower an
extremist nationalist group responsible for firebombings in Wales and England.

Detectives believe the Allen Street incendiary could have been intended for the
South Kensington constituency offices, in an adjacent street.

The other devices were found outside the Centre for Policy Studies a
Conservative-funded research group in Wilfred Street, Victoria, and local party
offices in Sloane Street, Chelsea.

It is the third time Meibion Glyndwr has planted firebombs outside Wales. It has
attacked estate agents' offices in Liverpool, Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands
and London. After the attacks police offered Pounds 50,000 for information
leading to the group's capture.

North Wales police have a special squad investigating Meibion Glyndwr, thought
to be behind many of the 150 arson attacks on English-owned holiday homes in
Wales in the past 10 years.

A burnt-out firebomb was found in the letterbox of the Cheltenham and Gloucester
building society, in Castle Street, Liverpool, yesterday. Detectives were
investigating possible links with the London attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 13 1989, Monday

Peru terror hits poll; Terrorist attacks

BYLINE: CORINNE SCHMIDT

SECTION: Issue 63550.

LENGTH: 84 words

DATELINE: LIMA


After several months of terrorist attacks designed to deter Peruvians from
voting in yesterday's municipal elections, polls in several cities and dozens of
small towns opened with no candidates .

The Maoist Shining Path terrorist campaign left 400 dead last month, one of the
bloodiest of the nine-year civil war. Ten of the victims were mayoral
candidates, prompting hundreds to resign, including 200 last week alone. But it
was expected that voter turn-out would be relatively high.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 21, 1989

Motorcycle used in terrorists' attack on paratroopers found

LENGTH: 211 words


POLICE have found a motorcycle used by the IRA in a bomb attack which killed
three paratroopers in Ulster at the weekend dumped in a lake, it was disclosed
last night.

The black and grey Honda 125, fitted with false number plates, had been stolen
in the Irish republic from outside a Roman Catholic church in Dundalk, Co Louth,
on November 1, the RUC said. Two blue boiler-suits and a motorcycle helmet were
also found.


Two people were seen speeding away on the bike after the 500lb bomb blasted the
soldiers' armoured Land-Rovers near the village of Mayobridge on Saturday. Lance
Corporal Stephen Paul Wilson, aged 23, Private Donald Macaulay, aged 30, and
Private Matthew Marshall, aged 21, who died, were on a two-year tour of duty in
Ulster. A fourth soldier was still seriously ill in hospital last night.

The RUC Chief Constable, Mr Hugh Ansley, yesterday met detectives investigating
the IRA murder in Armagh on Friday of UDR soldier, Lance Cpl David Halligan,
aged 57. His funeral took place yesterday.

A report in the Today newspaper that seven mercenaries on a yacht seized in
Gibraltar were arrested and remanded in custody for trying to ship arms from
Libya to the IRA was dismissed as fiction by sources on the Rock yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 27 1989, Wednesday

Easing frontier regulations 'could tempt terrorist attacks on London'

SECTION: Issue 63587.

LENGTH: 615 words


Relaxation of the European Community's internal frontiers could make London much
more tempting and vulnerable to terrorist attacks because of the capital's
importance as an international media centre, according to a paper published
today on the security implications of 1992.

Writing for the Institute for European Defence and Strategic Studies, Dr K G
Robertson, of Reading University, argues against the view that tougher exterior
barriers round the community will compensate for lowering controls inside. Much
terrorism is home grown within the community but European groups have so far
avoided Britain.


'The removal of frontiers may alter the calculations. The risks of entering and
leaving Britain to carry out terrorist acts have provided a disincentive which
has so far outweighed the powerful incentives which London provides in access to
the world media.

'Any slackening in British controls could lead to Basque or Action Directe
terrorists operating in Britain, ' he says.

Dr Robertson also points to the doubts about the strength of internal frontiers.
British officials, he says, question not only the competence but the integrity
of some security services.

British ministers may believe that they can maintain controls using a clause in
the Single European Act allowing countries to apply whatever action they feel
necessary to deal with areas such as terrorism. Dr Robertson says they could be
in for a shock because the European Commission believes the Act allows only for
temporary measures which should not disturb free movement. The matter could go
to the European Court with a finding against Britain if the court felt Britain
was in fact maintaining existing practices.

There are too many variables, Dr Robertson says, to be sure that drug

trafficking, smuggling, illegal immigration and toxic waste problems will worsen
after 1992 but the potential will exist for a significant worsening in each of
those areas.

A Green Paper on the face of British policing, police forces and national units
in the 1990s is being prepared by the Home Office for publication in the spring.

Draft details of the paper are being kept secret but the policy proposals are
bound to be influenced by the advent of closer ties within the European
Community in 1992 as frontiers are relaxed. The paper is expected to look at
areas including the need for greater national police operations, whether the
present number of police forces should remain as they are, recruiting and
advances in technology.

The legislation which could follow the Green Paper would serve to take the
police service into the next century.

The question of a national intelligence or investigation group has been under
discussion by chief constables since the autumn. A working party including Mr
John Smith, Scotland Yard's assistant commissioner in charge of specialist CID
operations, Mr John Hoddinott, Chief Constable of Hampshire and Mr Neil Dickens,
co-ordinator of the regional crime squads, is drawing up proposals which go to a
meeting of the council of the Association of Chief Police Officers next month.

There is wide support for the idea of a national criminal intelligence unit,
both from police and the Home Office, but the leap from intelligence collection
to an operational unit such as the FBI raises questions over management,
leadership and accountability.

Such a unit would improve co-operation with the rest of Europe after 1992 by
providing a central clearing house for inquiries and joint operations against
increasing international organized crime.

The Security Implications (Institute for European Defence and Strategic Studies,
Pounds 5).

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 5, 1990

Terror attack on Israeli bus claims eight

BYLINE: By IAN BLACK in Jerusalem

LENGTH: 388 words


MASKED gunmen killed eight people and wounded 17 on an Israeli tourist bus near
Cairo yesterday, blocking the bus with their car then blasting it with two
grenades and machineguns. Three of the dead were women.

The attack, immediately condemned by the Israeli Prime Minister, Mr Yitzhak
Shamir, seemed certain to complicate efforts to arrange Israeli-Palestinian
peace talks in Cairo.


The Egyptian Government deplored 'this savage incident which led to the death or
injury of innocent people'. It said the attackers spoke with non-Egyptian
accents.

However, last night an anonymous caller told an international news organisation
in Cairo that the previously unknown Organisation for the Defence of the
Oppressed in Egypt's Prisons had mounted the attack.

Police said that three or four attackers in a white Peugeot car swerved across
the path of the bus on the Cairo-Ismailiya highway at about 6 pm, forcing it to
halt.

Staff at Heliopolis Hospital said that Egyptian border guards accompanying the
bus, heading to Cairo from Rafah in the Israeli-occupied Gaza strip, were among
the dead.

It was the worst attack since 1985 when several Israeli tourists were shot and
killed at Ras Burka on the Sinai coast by an Egyptian policeman who was said to
have gone mad.

Mr Shamir told Israel television that the attack was serious and shocking. '(It)
proves that hatred for Israel still exists and is running wild in the area,' he
said.

His rightwing Trade and Industry Minister, Mr Ariel Sharon, who accuses Mr
Shamir of being too willing to make concessions to Palestinians, told reporters:
'We can only see one thing there is no change in the attitude of the PLO
terrorist organisations.'

Egyptian extremists usually members of banned Muslim fundamentalist
organisations have in the past claimed responsibility for attacks against
Israeli diplomats in Egypt, and Palestinian groups have occasionally succeeded
in mounting raids across the frontier from the Sinai desert, although there has
never been any evidence of Egyptian complicity.

The Israeli Foreign Minister, Mr Moshe Arens, and his Egyptian colleague, Mr
Ismet Abdel Meguid, discussed the incident by telephone last night.

An Israeli air force plane carrying a medical team left for Cairo to collect the
dead and injured.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            February 9, 1990, Friday

US alert over West Europe terror attack

BYLINE: From COLIN HUGHES in Washington

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 487 words


A SPECIFIC warning that the US is ''deeply concerned'' at the threat of a
terrorist attack on a US target in Western Europe ''on or about'' Sunday was
issued yesterday by the State Department.

The Department first issued a warning in December, a year after 270 people died
in the Lockerbie disaster, about increased activity by Hizbollah, the
Iranian-backed Lebanese Shia movement. Its concern was based partly on reports
of movement of terrorists from the Middle East to East and West Europe, and the
discovery of weapons shipments destined for pro-Iranian groups in Spain and
Africa.

Yesterday's statement said: ''The US government is deeply concerned that
terrorists may now be planning an operation against US interests in Western
Europe which may be . . . on or about 11 February.'' Richard Boucher, the State
Department spokesman, added that there was no further specific information
''about the nature of the terrorist operation, or about its target'', but
pointed out that Sunday would be the eleventh anniversary of the Iranian
revolution.

Mr Boucher said the State Department was not advising Americans to stay away
from Europe, nor were the authorities advising passengers not to return home
over the weekend. Passengers should simply ''exercise caution, observe good
security procedures, follow the recommendations of authorities''.

The Department would, Mr Boucher added, issue additional alerts ''if further
credible or specific information on this threat develops''. He declined to say
whether the US had been in touch with the Iranian authorities.

After Lockerbie there was considerable anger within the US that prior warnings
of an impending attack on a Pan Am flight from West Germany were not more widely
issued. The Federal Aviation Administration passed on one general pre-Lockerbie
warning to airlines, but said nothing publicly. Then a further and more specific
warning, made to the embassy in Stockholm, was not passed on. Officials said
later that it was still being evaluated at the time of the incident. Lawyers
representing the Lockerbie families sought to persuade the courts here that the
government could be held partly liable.

Before Lockerbie the US maintained a policy of informing only airlines,
airports, and security forces of intelligence warnings, or terrorist threats
that appeared to be genuine.

The public warning issued in December by the State Department represented the
first clear break with the policy. None the less, US authorities continue to
disagree over the wisdom of issuing such warnings, because of the risk of
throwing into chaos already disrupted international flight schedules. Samuel
Skinner, the US Transportation Secretary, said only last month that he largely
disapproved of the issuing of general public warnings.

The force of yesterday's warning therefore implies that the US has picked up
reliable information specifically on Hizbollah.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 25, 1990, Sunday

MP ATTACKS EARLY RELEASE OF TERRORISTS

BYLINE:  Ian MacGregor, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 199 words


A prominent Tory MP today attacked the Government for the early release of
terrorists in Ulster.  Mr Ian Gow, chairman of the Conservative backbench
committee on Northern Ireland, said those who committed terrorist crimes had
shown no compassion. "They have to accept the consequences of their past crime,
which is a long prison sentence and in my opinion a prison sentence not
diminished by release on licence." The MP for Eastbourne, who resigned from the
Government five years ago in protest at the Anglo-Irish agreement, spoke out in
the LWT television programme Eyewitness.  According to the programme, some
convicted terrorists facing life sentences are allowed out after serving 12 or
13 years under a Government scheme introduced in 1985.  The policy applies only
to Northern Ireland. On mainland Britain terrorists still serve a mimimum of 20
years.  Mr John Bach, former chairman of the Board of Visitors to Northern
Ireland's biggest prison, the Maize, said the scheme was a good policy.  "A
large number of our terrorist offenders committed their crimes when they were
very young, and that of course is a strong argument for being compassionate and
understanding," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           March 21, 1990, Wednesday

TERRORIST GUN ATTACK SPARKS FEAR OF MORE KILLINGS

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, Press Association, in Belfast

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 278 words


Security forces in Ulster were on full alert tonight after republican terrorists
gunned down a Protestant in front of his wife in north Belfast.  There were
fears that loyalists could carry out retaliation killings after the Irish
People's Liberation Organisation shot dead 44-year-old Billy McClure at his flat
in Skegoneill Avenue on Tuesday night. Lorry driver Mr McClure became the
2,786th victim of terrorist violence in the province in 20 years, and the 544th
victim in north Belfast alone.  The area has been dubbed "the killing fields"
because of the number of random tit-for-tat killings of innocent people carried
out by both republicans and loyalists.  Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Brooke
tonight called on both sides in the area to "stop".  He said: "It is a totally
vain exercise. It does no good for anyone. The sooner one of the two sides gets
some common sense and says stop, the better." Security sources said Mr McClure
had no known connection with any paramilitary groups despite a conviction 15
years ago for possession of ammunition. He was given an 18-month suspended
sentence.  The IPLO, a splinter group of the outlawed Irish National Liberation
Organisation, said it killed Mr McClure in retaliation for recent attacks on
Catholics in the area.  In a separate incident earlier today, two Protestants
were shot in Lisburn, Co Antrim.  The outlawed loyalist Ulster Freedom Fighters
claimed responsibility for the attacks, saying the two men had engaged in
"anti-loyalist activities".  One of the men, aged 38, was in a critical
condition in hospital after being shot several times. The second, a 28-year-old,
was not so badly injured.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 6, 1990, Friday

TERRORISTS ATTACK ARMY BASE

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 38 words


Terrorists fired about half-a-dozen shots at a military base near the centre of
Londonderry at lunchtime today.  No one was injured in the attack on the Army's
Bishop Street camp. The security forces did not return fire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 30, 1990, Monday

AIRPORTS ON ALERT AMID FEARS OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE:  Martin White and Ian Graham, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 508 words


Airports were on full alert today after an apparent attempted terrorist attack
by a girl posing as an expectant mother was foiled over the weekend.  Staff at
Heathrow and other British gateways were warned to be particularly vigilant amid
fears that they could become prime targets for attack.  Security forces across
Ulster were already on full alert after intelligence sources warned of a new IRA
bombing and shooting campaign.  A teenage girl with Semtex explosives strapped
to her stomach was intercepted on a shuttle bus outside Belfast as she was on
her way to Belfast International Airport at Aldergrove.  Although she is still
being interviewed by RUC detectives at Castlereagh interrogation centre, in an
attempt to discover her exact intentions, there are fears that the IRA could be
planning more attacks on aviation facilities.  In recent years the terrorist
organisation has avoided using airlines and airports as bombing targets
apparently because of the risk of indiscriminate and heavy loss of life, and
security experts will now want to determine whether there has been a change in
policy.  The Heathrow authorities declined to comment on the implications of the
incident. A spokeswoman said: "It is not our policy to discuss security matters
of this kind in detail." But passengers using the Belfast-London service today
reported particularly detailed searching of both baggage and clothing.
"Security is always strict on this route but I've never known it like this.
Staff went through virtually every pocket and scrutinised every passenger before
boarding. "But I think we were all pleased to see it," said one businessman
arriving at Heathrow from Belfast.  In other terrorist incidents over the
weekend, a 64-year-old woman was recovering in hospital from glass cuts, after a
grenade was thrown through a window of a house in the Woodgrove area of
Portadown, Co Armagh, shortly before 11.30 last night. The explosion started a
fire which gutted two rooms.  In another incident, a man in his 20s was shot in
both legs by a masked gunman at Finch Close, south Belfast, shortly before 1am.
His condition was not believed to be serious, the RUC said.  During the weekend,
security forces defused a 900lb pound bomb in a van on a housing estate in
Dungannon, Co Tyrone.  In Castlewellan, Co Down, two bombs were found lying on a
main road and defused. In Newry, Co Down, half a ton of explosives was
discovered and a Semtex bomb was found in Londonderry.

A 64-year-old woman was recovering in hospital in today after a grenade was
thrown through the living room window of a house in the Woodgrove area of
Portadown, Armagh, shortly before 11.30 last night.  The explosion started a
fire which gutted two rooms.  An RUC spokesman said the woman suffered cuts from
flying glass and shock. Her daughter escaped unhurt.  In another incident, a man
in his 20s was shot in both legs by a masked gunman at Finch Close, south
Belfast, shortly before 1am.  His condition in hospital is not believed to be
serious, the RUC said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The The Sunday Times (London)

                              May 6, 1990, Sunday

Soldier shot in terrorist attack

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 63 words


A SOLDIER was shot in the head in South Armagh, Northern Ireland, yesterday. The
man was in a foot patrol which came under fire from a terrorist machinegun in
the Cullyhammer area. Later his condition was ''very serious''.

The IRA yesterday admitted that one of its active service units was behind an
attempted bombing at a British Army base in Hanover, West Germany.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  South Armagh

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 17, 1990

IRA van bomb kills soldier: Sergeant badly injured - Fear of new mainland terror
offensive / Waddington condemns 'sickening attack'

BYLINE: By DAVID SHARROCK and PAUL MYERS

LENGTH: 849 words


ONE soldier was killed and another seriously injured last night by an IRA bomb
which exploded under their van at the rear of an army careers information office
in Wembley, north-west London.

The dead man was Sergeant Charles Chapman of the 3rd Battalion Queen's Regiment,
based in Cyprus. He was 34, married with a son and daughter, and came from Kent.
He joined the army in 1972.


The injured man was a staff sergeant.

The explosion, which the IRA claimed responsibility for late last night, comes
two days after an IRA Semtex time-bomb exploded outside the Army Education Corps
in Eltham, south-east London, injuring seven people.

The armed forces minister, Archie Hamilton, who visited the scene and saw the
injured soldier in hospital, said this was part of a mainland campaign.
Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
squad, warned all connected with the security forces to check their vehicles and
premises with extra care.

The two men were the last of the six-strong staff to leave the careers office,
which is in a busy block of shops. They went out to their unmarked white Sherpa
van, which had been parked in the alley behind the shops all day.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: 'They had just got into the vehicle and had
started to move it when the explosion occurred.' A woman civilian who also
worked at the office and was waiting to get into the van suffered from shock.

All three were taken to nearby Northwick Park Hospital. Sergeant Chapman was
certified dead on arrival. It is thought he died instantly.

The other man, in his 40s, was said to be stable.

Mr Hamilton said he was in good heart and praised his bravery.

'It is an outrageous, despicable and totally callous, cowardly attack and it
could have involved very many members of the general public,' he said.

The bomb exploded at 5pm at the junction of Thurlow Gardens and Harrow Road,
half a mile from Wembley Stadium. Police later said the van did not have a
security force registration plate.

A local resident said office staff normally left the shop at the front, walked
round into Thurlow Gardens, and then turned right into the alley to reach their
vehicle.

One witness, Joe Byrne, aged 20, was about 40 yards away when the explosion
happened. 'There was this big bang. I just ran back. There was just a big ball
of smoke. There was this bloke, he was just sitting down on the deck of the van
shouting, 'Please help get me out.' I don't know how he survived.'

Mr Byrne said two people helped the man out of the van. 'They dragged him out
and he shouted, 'Please everyone get back, get back. I'm in shock. Stay back.
There may be another one'.' A woman was also in the road, bleeding from the
mouth, Mr Byrne said.

Another witness, Jagjig Singh Sohal, said: 'At first I thought it was a gas
blast. I ran to see what happened. There was a body in the van.'

Another local man, Colin Baggett, said: 'It was very violent. We ran to the area
and saw someone being led away. He appeared to be badly burned. He was speaking
and said he was okay but he was in a state of shock.

'The van was a tangled mass. It was quite horrific. It was total chaos. There
was broken glass and windows everywhere.

'There were people running around in a state of shock. But we were ushered
away.'

The Home Secretary, David Waddington, said last night: 'Yet again, we see a
sickening attack by the IRA which can do no good to their cause or to the name
of the Irish people.

'All decent people will feel the deepest sympathy for those injured and the
friends and relatives of those killed and maimed in the bestial attacks which
have taken place this week.'

Paul Boateng, MP for Brent South where the army careers office is sited last
night denounced the bombing as 'a wicked, dastardly act of mayhem aimed at
innocent people. They have brought death and destruction to the inhabitants of a
community totally unsuspecting and unprepared for such a act.

'Those who committed this crime must have known there was housing all around and
that innocent people would be vulnerable.

'There is clearly now a dangerous pattern developing in London. We will have all
of us have to look again at the way in which we protect soft targets.'

The current campaign on the mainland started with the attack on Inglis Barracks,
Mill Hill, north London, in August 1988.

The headquarters of the Royal Army Educational Corps in Eltham, south London,
was one of dozens of soft military targets which the IRA has selected since the
bombing of bandsmen and ceremonial guards in London in 1982. The present
campaign also includes magnet car bombs and parcel bombs aimed at individuals.

Political pressure on the Government to tighten security at semi-military
installations will grow next week when the Defence Select Committee publishes a
report following the Deal bombing last year, which is expected to be critical of
security standards. Conservative MPs last night called for an urgent review of
security.

Any target 'fair game', page 4

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              June 4, 1990, Monday

IRA TERROR ATTACKS - SIX MEN HELD

BYLINE:  Paul Fuller and Mervyn Tunbridge, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 100 words


Six men were being held by police in London today over recent IRA terrorist
attacks on the British mainland. The men were detained under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act after a series of police raids.  Three were being questioned by
detectives from Staffordshire hunting the IRA killers of a teenage Army recruit
Robert Davies, gunned down at Lichfield railway station on Friday.  It was
understood the others were being quizzed by Scotland Yard officers investigating
the IRA's mainland bombing campaign - including recent bomb attacks at Wembley,
north London, and Eltham, south-east London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 9, 1990

'Jackal' who helped pave way for terror attacks

LENGTH: 468 words


THE role of Nicholas Mullen provides an insight into how IRA terrorists can
operate on the mainland.

Mullen, aged 42, was jailed for 30 years yesterday after being convicted at the
Old Bailey of helping preparations for the 1988 bombing campaign. A second man,
Eamon Wadley, aged 36, was cleared of four charges of making property available
for use in connection with terrorism.


Employing tactics used in the Frederick Forsyth thriller, The Day of the Jackal,
Mullen used the Public Records Office to find birth certificates of people who
had died with which he could apply for passports and driving licences.

Answering advertisements in newspapers and newsagents, he would rent houses or
flats and buy second-hand cars, always paying cash drawn from a series of bank
accounts set up in different names.

With his English accent and background in fraud, he fixed practical details for
the terrorists without raising suspicions, leaving them free to prepare their
huge cache of arms and equipment.

One of his tasks was to rent a workshop, which could have been used to build
mortars. He paid Pounds 500 to rent one in east London in July, 1988, using the
name Williams. But the workshop proved unsuitable.

He also drew up code lists on cigarette paper and wrote out specifications for
mortars. Arms and explosives had to be transported between safe houses. Police
found Semtex dumped in a north London waterworks near his home in Wood Green.

A security source said: 'He played an extremely important role. The cell could
not have existed without him. They don't want to risk being identified so they
have got to have someone renting flats, opening bank accounts and buying cars.'

The bombings last month in Eltham, south-east London, in which seven people were
injured, and in Wembley when an army recruiting sergeant was killed, prompted
fears of a second cell operating on the mainland. After the Wembley car bomb,
anti-terrorist detectives said it was crucial the public were aware of the
network of sympathisers who helped IRA cells strike and go to ground with such
apparent ease.

Mullen, whose Irish father had spent 38 years as an electrician in the RAF,
became a mature student at the Middlesex Polytechnic studying for a BA honours
degree in social sciences.

A fortnight after 21 people had died and 162 were injured in the 1974 Birmingham
pub bombings, he proposed a motion at the National Union of Students' conference
in Margate, Kent, approving the IRA's attacks on military and economic targets
in Britain.

His outspoken views would have put him on police files and ensured his name was
widely known within IRA circles. During the 1960s and 70s he collected 15
convictions for dishonesty, fraud and assault on police, serving 10 jail
sentences.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 22, 1990, Friday

WADDINGTON ATTACKS LABOUR STANCE ON TERRORISM ACT

BYLINE:  James Hardy, Press Association Lobby Staff

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


IRA sympathisers could lawfully hold cash collections on the streets of London
under a Labour government, Home Secretary David Waddington claimed today.  He
said Labour's pledge to repeal the Prevention of Terrorism Act would allow
people banned from the country for having known terrorist links to return
unchallenged.  Speaking at the two-day Conservative women's conference in
London, a day after the latest bomb blast at RAF Stanmore Park, north London, Mr
Waddington's clear implication was that Labour was soft on terrorism.  He
accused shadow home secretary Roy Hattersley of failing to properly think
through the need for the Act. Labour has consistently abstained in the annual
vote to renew the legislation.  Mr Waddington said Labour would now repeal the
Act after offering its initial support showing that it was not prepared to face
up to its responsibilities. He said it was no longer "fit to be treated
seriously as a possible party of government".  He said: "Has he (Hattersley)
thought for one moment that the consequence of the repeal of the legislation
would be that the IRA would become a lawful body and people could actually
collect funds for the IRA on the streets of London? He hasn't even thought about
it.  "Doesn't he even realise that the immediate consequence would be that a
whole lot of people who are either concerned in the commission, preparation or
instigation of acts of terrorism and have been excluded from this country would
be able to come straight back here?" Mr Waddington also gave a ringing
endorsement of the police. He said they deserved and had the full support of the
public.  He said the Government had demonstrated its support by increasing
police spending in real terms by 60% since 1979 and increasing manpower by more
than 15,000.

Mr Hattersley reacted angrily to Mr Waddington's speech.  He said the Home
Secretary had reduced "the serious issue of the fight against terrorism to the
level of squalid party political abuse".  Mr Hattersley said: "He knows that the
Labour Party is every bit as committed to the fight against terrorism as is this
Government, but he also knows that the Prevention of Terrorism Act is
counter-productive." It was "a ridiculous negation of the concept of a United
Kingdom" that individuals could be banished from the mainland to Northern
Ireland, which was also part of the UK.  Mr Hattersley went on: "This concept of
banishment is obviously seen by the Irish people as a statement that it is all
right for terrorists to operate in Ireland so long as they are kept away from
England, Scotland and Wales.  "The Home Secretary also knows that the European
Court has ruled that the powers of detention under the Prevention of Terrorism
Act are not acceptable." The Government had refused to accept this ruling,
creating further anger among the very communities whose trust was needed to root
out the terrorists. Labour's criticisms of the Prevention of Terrorism Act had
been carefully thought out, said Mr Hattersley.  "To suggest that IRA
sympathisers would have an easier life under a Labour government is disgraceful,
and the Home Secretary, now reduced to scraping around for a few extra votes,
knows it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             July 31, 1990, Tuesday

TV attack on terrorists six days ago

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 285 words


IN A strongly-worded television interview six days ago, Ian Gow attacked the IRA
and vowed: ''We will never, never surrender.'' He said last Wednesday that the
killings of a nun and three policemen in Ulster were ''odious and futile''.

''Once again women have been turned into widows and children to orphans, for
what purpose? There can be no purpose. One of the awful things about today's
murders is that there is a kind of perverted purposelessness about those who
have done this.

''The message that should go out from all decent people and 99 per cent of
people in Northern Ireland and 99 per cent of people in Great Britain are decent
people is that we will never, never surrender to people like this.

''There is a lesson to be learnt: what would happen to Northern Ireland if
people like this were allowed to have their way?''

Asked whether he felt that the IRA's bombing campaign was reaching a climax he
said it was hard to see a pattern. He was heartened that the numbers killed so
far this year were less than last year.

He praised the intelligence service and said its agents were ''doing their work
to the utmost. I have only praise for our intelligence service in the
province.'' The previous day he called for legal action against the producers of
Granada Television's World in Action programme for an anonymous interview with a
man claiming to have carried out the Birmingham pub bombings which killed 21
people.

He said that Granada's action was astonishing and ''complicity in the murders''.
The producers had failed to fulfil a duty which would be carried out by any
decent citizen, he said.

On July 3, Mr Gow's appointment as chairman of the Airey Neave Trust was
announced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 4, 1990, Saturday

Colombia police foil terror attacks set for inauguration week

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 10

LENGTH: 532 words


BOGOTA (EFE) - Colombian secret police have exposed a plot to launch a series of
large-scale attacks during next week's inauguration of President-elect Cesar
Gaviria, officials claimed.

A spokesman for F2, Colombia's anti-terrorist unit, said a unit raided a house
in the Bosa district of the capital on Thursday night, seizing machine guns,
explosives, Armed Forces uniforms and secret agents' badges.

F2 units were searching for six suspects who escaped the raid and are believed
to have access to other weapons. The six were believed to be planning to disrupt
next Tuesday's swearing-in ceremony with gun and explosives attacks. Gaviria's
inauguration is to be attended by five heads of states and delegates from 76
countries.

The spokesmen did not identify the suspects, nor indicate if they were gunmen in
the pay of the country's drug traffickers, leftist guerrillas or ultra-rightist
paramilitaries.

In a separate raid Thursday, F-2 agents raided a house in Colombia owned by
Robert Stringer, an ex- pilot for former Panamanian military strongman Manuel
Antonio Noriega.

The house served as a meeting place for top drug barons, the F-2 spokesman said.
Mr Stringer was thought to be either a Panamanian or a US citizen.

Gaviria earlier Thursday welcomed a decision by Colombian drug to call a
unilateral truce in their war against the government.

The Medellin Cartel last Friday said they would temporarily suspend their
campaign of bombings and assassinations of police, politicians, judges and
journalists because of the change of administration.

Outgoing President Virgilio Barco declared all-out war on the drug traffickers
after the murder last August of presidential candidate Luis Carlos Galan.

The cartels hit back with a wave of bomb and shooting attacks. Hundreds of
people have been killed in the 11-month-old war. Galan has pledged to continue
Barco's policy of tracking down drug traffickers and extraditing them for trial
in the United States.

The government agreed on Thursday to begin direct demobilization talks with
right-wing paramilitary groups suspected of slaying thousands of leftist
peasants, Interior Minister Horacio Serpa Uribe announced.

Serpa Uribe said he had consulted with representatives of President-elect Cesar
Gaviria, who is to take office on Tuesday, and that the talks would include
government officials and top paramilitary leaders Henry de Jesus Perez and Ariel
Otero.

''Gaviria knows about these negotiations and will continue with the accords,''
Serpa Uribe said, adding, ''This country is fed up with violence.''

A member of one of the right-wing groups, Ivan Roberto Dugue, said on Thursday
that he was satisfied the new government had decided to ''advance, with real
interest, dialogues and disarmament.''

Backed by the government and Army, the paramilitary squads began as self-defence
groups in the early 1960s in an effort to combat leftist guerrilla violence.

President Virgilio Barco abolished the groups in 1988 after they were linked to
drug trafficking and suspected of slaying up to 5,000 leftist peasants,
politicians and judicial officials in rural zones throughout the country in the
previous five years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            August 21, 1990, Tuesday

BRITISH FORCES ON ALERT FOR PLO TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE:  Ian Bruce, Glasgow Herald Defence Correspondent, in a pooled despatch
from

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 352 words


Dhahran, Saudi Arabia Britain's sole front-line fighter squadron at Dhahran in
north-eastern Saudi Arabia was today on alert for a possible Palestinian
terrorist attack.  The warning was given after the touchdown at King Abdul Aziz
airbase of an RAF VC10 transport aircraft loaded with spare parts for the 12
Tornado F3 interceptors and also chemical warfare suits for the ground support
crews.  Many thousands of Palestinian workers live within Saudi Arabia and some
are believed to belong to potential pro-Iraqi terrorist organisations.  It is
felt that a major chemical or conventional assault by Iraq is now unlikely
because of the rapid build-up of US and Allied forces over the last ten days.
America now has 60,000 ground troops and up to 500 aircraft in the area. More
aircraft, tanks and armoured personnel carriers are due to arrive by sea over
the next week.  The UK has about 1700 airmen and engineers as its land
contribution to the growing Allied force in the area. This includes the
Tornadoes at Dhahran and a Jaguar ground attack squadron in nearby Oman.
Squadron Leader Ted Threapleton, 38, a navigator with the Tornado group, said
morale was high and his men were ready for anything. But he added that scare
stories about Iraq's chemical warfare threat were causing needless worry for the
families of servicemen in the Gulf.  He said: "It's a real problem and it causes
unnecessary anxiety to our loved ones. It is not made any easier by the fact
that we can't tell them much for obvious security reasons. "It would help if
they could get the message that we have good kit, we are confident, and ready
for anything. We are doing the job for which we have trained, and humour and
morale is high." S/Ldr Threapleton, who is from Yorkshire and married with two
sons, is part of a composite squadron of Tornadoes drawn from three operational
units based in the UK.  The standard of accommodation for the UK forces is
comparitively high. They are Portakabin-style buildings with air conditioning
and some UK television channels are available.  The Americans, however, are
living in tents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            August 21, 1990, Tuesday

RAF on terrorist attack alert

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 663 words


From A Correspondent in a pooled despatch from King Abdul Aziz air base, in
Dhahran, Saudi Arabia

ROYAL Air Force units at Dhahran air base in northern Saudi Arabia were last
night being ordered to prepare for a possible terrorist attack by the Palestine
Liberation Organisation. The alert followed the rapid build-up of US personnel
and warplanes which is making the base the largest military complex in the
entire Middle East.

The warning of an imminent attack by groups supporting President Saddam was
issued as an RAF VC10 landed with equipment, stores and spare parts for the 12
Tornado fighters deployed at the base. But military sources said the threat of a
large-scale conventional attack on Dhahran itself is thought to have diminished
since the arrival of more than 60,000 US troops in the north eastern area of
Saudi Arabia bordering the kingdom's oilfields.

According to Squadron Leader Ted Threapleton, aged 38, a Tornado navigator
attached to the RAF's 5 Squadron based at Dhahran for the last 10 days: ''We've
got good kit, we're confident in it and we're prepared for anything.'' Speaking
after what he described as a ''non-stop day of operational flying'', Squadron
Leader Threapleton said that morale among the RAF pilots and ground crew at the
base was ''sky high''.

It is clear that the Tornadoes have had several radar contacts with Iraqi
aircraft operating on Saudi's northern border but these have not resulted in
interceptions.

It is understood that Iraqi aircraft are continuing to avoid confrontations with
RAF and American fighters and are turning away when confronted by Western
fighters. The incidents all take place at high altitude along Saudi Arabia's
northern border. Last night as I sat in the cockpit of an RAF VC10 approaching
Dhahran on a hot, crystal-clear night, the radio waves were alive with Saudi,
American and British accents indicating an extraordinary level of air activity
in the area of the base. On the aircraft's final approach, the scale of the
build-up, and the confusion that has resulted, became clear to see.

Overheard on the busy frequency: ''What is your final altitude?'' came the
strained and high pitched tone of the American controller. ''I say again,
maintain only flight level 230, there are aircraft close above you.'' The terse
response from an equally hassled American pilot was a clear sign of the way in
which both American and British transport crews are flying to their limits.

The RAF Hercules and VC10 crews have been flying a punishing schedule since the
start of this crisis 19 days ago. According to one RAF pilot, a VC10 crew
recently flew a 19-hour, non-stop stretch in an effort to consolidate and supply
Britain's military force strewn around the Gulf. The VC10 in which I was flying
last saw active service running aeromedical evacuation flights from Montevideo
to RAF Brize Norton during the Falklands conflict.

The aircraft's loadmaster, WO 'Casey' Jones, said: ''I hope this crisis in the
Gulf doesn't lead to us stripping the seats out of this aircraft and flying
stretchers home instead.''

The atmosphere at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire and at Akrotiri in Cyprus is
one of growing tension. Transport crews all now carry pistols slung
incongruously around their chests in leather holsters. At Akrotiri, the tarmac
is filled with Hercules transport aircraft, their rear ramps lowered and
receiving a continuous series of pallets delivered by fork lift truck.

The airbase at Dhahran is now packed with an extraordinary assortment of
American, Saudi and British aircraft. On arriving at the end of Dhahran's
runway, Flight Lieutenant Mike Porter, a VC10 captain with 10 Squadron, surveyed
the scene and said: ''This gathering makes the Farnborough Air Show look a
little bit poor.''

The constant roar of aircraft and flashes of jet exhausts continue round the
clock, leading one pilot to comment that Dhahran ''must now, surely, be almost
as busy as Chicago O'Hare airport.''

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                         September 12, 1990, Wednesday

DRIVER LOCKED IN CAR BOOT DURING TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 223 words


Terrorist gunmen in Northern Ireland are using a grim new tactic when hijacking
vehicles for a shooting attack - bundling the owner in the boot, police
disclosed today.  Republicans who seized a car in Belfast, pushed the owner into
the boot and kept him there while they opened fire from the car on a victim at a
street corner. A senior RUC officer said: "I dread to think what might have
happened, had security forces happened on the scene and opened fire on the car.
"Cars are hijacked by terrorists all the time, but the owners are normally held
somewhere else while their vehicles are used. We have never come across a case
like this before." The gold-coloured Rover was later abandoned on waste ground
in the Divis Flats complex - with the owner still trapped inside.  The man, in
his mid-fifties, who suffers from a heart condition, was later freed unharmed
but shaken after hammering and screaming for help, according to security
sources.  He was recovering from his ordeal at his home in west Belfast today.
The shooting victim, a 23-year-old Protestant, was wounded in the cheek, chest
and thigh when one of the gunmen got out of the car and opened fire in the
loyalist Shankill Road.  Police said the attack early yesterday was carried out
by the Irish Peoples Liberation Organisation, a small republican terror group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           September 17, 1990, Monday

RISING TOLL OF TERRORIST ATTACKS ON 'SOFT' TARGETS

BYLINE:  Grania Langdon-Down, Press Association Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 463 words


Today's shooting follows a series of terrorist attacks on or around Army careers
offices on mainland Britain this year which have claimed the life of a
recruiting sergeant and injured three soldiers.  The offices present ideal
"soft" targets for the terrorists as the need for them to be accessible to the
public leaves them vulnerable to attack.  But the use of guns signals a switch
of tactics. It is the first time in the current campaign against careers offices
that terrorists have not resorted to bombs.  Just a week ago, a bomb exploded on
the roof of an Army and Royal Navy careers office in Derby city centre. It was
believed to be the work of the IRA.  Seven servicemen, shoppers and office
workers had a "miraculous escape" when 5lbs of high explosive blew a hole in the
concrete roof of the two-storey building, said police.  Pedestrians ran for
cover as the blast showered glass and debris over a 2,000 yard area, but no-one
was injured.  On July 6, a small bomb exploded without injury in a litter bin in
The Strand in central London. Detectives believe it was intended for the nearby
Army careers information office but would not fit through the letterbox.  On May
16, a recruiting sergeant was killed and his colleague seriously injured when a
car bomb exploded under his van parked at the back of the careers office in
Wembley, north-west London.  After that attack, armed forces minister Archie
Hamilton ruled out the use of military guards at the 195 Army careers offices
and other "soft" targets in civilian areas, but stressed the need for increased
vigilance by both the public and the armed forces. Two days earlier, the
terrorists had switched tactics, burying a time bomb in a flower garden outside
the Army education unit in Eltham, south east London. The subsequent explosion
injured seven civilians.  On February 24, a parcel bomb shoved through the
letter box of an Army careers office in Halifax exploded without injury.  Four
days earlier, two Army sergeants were injured when a car bomb ripped through
their military van near the recruiting office in Leicester.

On January 16, parcel bombs were sent to an Army base in Aldershot, but no-one
was injured.  Today's suspected IRA shooting is only the second in the present
terror campaign on mainland Britain.  The group's activities this year have been
dominated by the planting of car and parcel bombs.  They have been directed at
service careers offices, prominent figures such as murdered MP Ian Gow, key Tory
establishments like the Carlton Club or ex-services chiefs like General Sir
Anthony Farrar-Hockley.  The only other shooting, for which the IRA admitted
responsibility, was in June at Lichfield Station in Staffordshire. One soldier
was killed and two others were injured.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 29, 1990, Saturday

The men of war promise third violent decade; Recent terrorist attacks in Britain
have shown the IRA's ability to strike at the heart of the British
Establishment. A leading IRA military strategist delivers a chilling critique of
their tactics. David McKittrick reports

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 2138 words


THE QUESTION about the murder of Ian Gow and the attempted killing of Sir Peter
Terry drew a barely perceptible shrug from the representative of the IRA's
''general headquarters staff''. He replied: ''The grief of Mrs Gow is no
different from the grief of families of IRA volunteers who are killed.

''The suffering of the Terry family is no different from the suffering of the
McCann or Savage or Farrell families IRA members killed by the SAS in Gibraltar
. But it is wrong to personalise this conflict. We are at war with a coalition
of interests. Ian Gow was an integral part of that coalition.

''I'm not going to get into a discussion of the specific criteria for targets.
To do so would only aid the British to develop counter- measures. We want to
stretch the enemy, both materially and in terms of their nerves.''

The main points he wanted to project in the lengthy interview were clearly that
the IRA had both the means and the stamina to continue its violence into a third
decade. The impression came across that the organisation was pleased with the
campaign in Britain. ''The war which Britain wages in Ireland has inflicted a
very heavy price on all sections of our people,'' he said. ''The IRA have quite
forcibly told the British, the British Establishment, those who legislate for
the war in Ireland, that they too will have to pay a price.

''It's our intention, and we have the means, to continue to exact that price
from the British Establishment. We will increasingly bring the war to the
attention of the British public, and to the doorsteps of those who sustain the
conflict. And their lifestyles will not stand the strain that our lifestyles do,
for we have nothing.

''When one hears Tory MPs having to repeat 17 times that the IRA are not going
to rattle them, it's easy to see that they are hollow words. They are rattled,
and so long as they persist with their illogical and illegal claim to Ireland,
we will not only continue to rattle them but will rattle them harder.''

The words of menace were delivered in a flat, near-monotone, the words of
someone for whom death has become a way of life as he calmly described the
thinking behind the IRA's killing patterns. ''The strategy of waging war is also
directly linked to the British desire to Ulsterise the conflict.

''We are quite aware that the perception in England, when an RUC man is killed,
is: 'There are the Paddies fighting each other again'. The RUC and UDR are
important parts of the war machine and we must, therefore, wage war against
those forces. But it has been our aim for a number of years, whilst not limiting
the scope of our operations, to concentrate our efforts on British military
personnel.''

For more than a year some newspapers have been speculating about the possibility
of an IRA ceasefire, and the IRA spokesman clearly wished to make a definitive
statement on the issue. ''It's a tired old subject and it's one that comes up
with predictable regularity. But the only debate within the IRA is on how best
to prosecute the war against the British.

''We can state absolutely, on the record, that there will be no ceasefire, no
truce, no cessation of violence short of a British withdrawal. That, as blunt as
that, is our position. Having said that, should the British Government at any
stage genuinely seek dialogue, then we are more than willing to engage in
dialogue with them.

''The principal aim of the armed struggle is to sap the will of the British
Government to remain in Ireland - to impress upon them that, sooner or later,
they will come to accept the futility of their armed campaign, and will grant
the internationally recognised right of self-determination to the Irish
people.''

But where, after two decades of terrorism and death, was the evidence that
Britain had been brought any closer to withdrawal? ''There is no specific
evidence to demonstrate that the campaign, in Britain or elsewhere, has brought
tangible evidence of withdrawal. But there is the irrefutable case that, 21
years into this conflict, the British are fast running out of solutions. There
is only one solution that they haven't tried, and that's disengagement. When
things begin to move, they move fairly rapidly. What evidence was there in
Afghanistan, even a few months before Mikhail Gorbachev took the troops out,
that it was going to happen - the Russians were increasing the tank and
helicopter patrols around Kabul just a short time before.

''There was a similar situation in Vietnam with the Americans. I think a
reassessment under Margaret Thatcher would have been fairly unlikely; but then
anyone can be brought fairly quickly to deal with political realities, just as
FW de Klerk was.

''A few years ago she was condemning the ANC and Umkhonto we Sizwe its military
wing in the most strident terms. But then there was the spectacle of her almost
falling over herself to meet Mandela. That showed very clearly that there is no
such thing as an absolute in politics. You should never take at face value what
British politicians say. History has taught that.

''In personal terms she has obviously suffered quite a lot since 1984, and I
don't think she's all that rational in dealing with IRA operations. She was
almost killed, and I think that our words after Brighton still haunt her -
'Today we were unlucky. But remember, we only have to be lucky once. You will
have to be lucky always'.

''At her age you should be looking forward to retirement, sitting back on her
laurels. It'll be very hard to enjoy your retirement with a permanent
bodyguard.''

Was the IRA looking forward to the election of a Labour government with a policy
of aiming for Irish unity by consent? Another shrug: ''I think Gerald Kaufman,
throughout the present American and British intervention in the Middle East, has
shown he's every bit as much on the military bandwagon as any Tory.

''As far as Ireland goes, bipartisanship is still the order of the day: the
policies of the parliamentary Labour Party are a fudge. I don't see that either
a Labour or Tory party in power makes any difference to the British
determination to remain in Ireland. I think that determination is only as strong
as the politicians' ability to repress the demand for withdrawal in England, and
to keep a lid on their war in Ireland through censorship, media manipulation and
naked propaganda.

''There isn't a very strong consensus on remaining in Ireland. It's a fairly
fragile one, and it exercises the minds of the British Establishment to keep
that consensus intact. Every time an IRA bomb explodes in Hampshire, or any time
the IRA comes within a hair's breadth of wiping out the British Cabinet, the
cracks in that consensus appear.

''We immediately have Robert Maxwell weighing in with an editorial calling for
withdrawal; Peregrine Worsthorne saying we should be put outside the pale;
Churchill-Coleman Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the Anti-Terrorist
Squad calling for another security review, and howls from the backbenchers for
more direct action against the IRA. They show the level of desperation that is
there.''

And what of the efforts of Peter Brooke, Secretary of State for Northern
Ireland, to open a new round of political talks? ''I think what he is about
there is attempting to give a positive side to British strategy. The most
hopeful scenario for Peter Brooke is that he involves the SDLP in a public
endorsement of British military policy. I believe he is engaged in illusions, in
selling the idea that Britain has a solution. All he's doing is perpetuating the
agony. There is no incentive for Unionists to shift their position while Britain
remains.

''After partition in 1921 , the British simply failed to take any meaningful
interest in Ireland. And when the cesspit erupted in 1969 it was almost
inevitable that they would be sucked into the conflict, that they would have to
prop up the Orange state.

''The argument could be made that there has never been a cohesive British policy
in Ireland in 20 years. They have stumbled from crisis to crisis: they have
never had the political will to face the problem. There is a very clear military
policy - for repression and for smashing the resistance of the Irish to British
rule. But they haven't thought beyond that. The only political policy they have
pursued consistently is stabilisation and containment.''

But if Britain's concern is with stability, how could it contemplate the
potentially totally unstable situation which withdrawal might create? Many
analysts, after all, have argued that a pull-out would, or could, lead to a
breakdown of order and new conflict on an unprecedented scale. ''I can accept
what you're saying. The dilemma which faces the British is a very real one. I
can accept that. But what they have to realise is that if they don't disengage,
then their aim of stability is also defeated. They need to realise that the
quest for stability in the six counties of Northern Ireland is futile. Their
presence is the catalyst for instability.''

And what of the possibility that the Unionist community, or a large part of it,
would opt to fight rather than negotiate their way into a united Ireland?

''What are the Unionists going to fight for? Are they going to fight to bring
the British back? The dynamic for violence within the Unionist community stems
directly from the British presence. The British must work hard to convince the
Unionists: they must have the will to lance the Orange boil. The Unionists
cannot exercise a veto over democracy in Ireland.''

So, the IRA hoped Unionists would one day realise they were Irish. How did he
feel, in the meantime, about the organisation killing so many Unionists who were
members of the UDR and RUC? ''Those people who join a part of the British war
machine, be it RUC or UDR, are an integral part of the British war machine. I
don't think people in Britain during the Second World War would have had any
qualms about killing English people who went to fight for the Waffen-SS.

''I understand that the awfulness of this conflict means that for generations to
come there will be bitterness. The Unionists, too, are victims of partition.
There are Protestant families in Tyrone who have had six in one family killed. I
understand that they will remain bitter for a long time: they will probably
never fully integrate into a unitary Irish state.

''But I think Protestants will gain because they will cease to be victims of the
British presence. They wouldn't be shackled and tied any more. I can't see that
as losing. I see that as liberation. An irrevocable declaration of intent to
withdraw, within a fixed timetable, would inject a dose of reality into the
situation. In one fell swoop it would remove the biggest problem in Ireland,
which is the British presence. The removal of the British presence would force
the Unionist people to enter into meaningful negotiations.''

But Britain, he said, would be expected not just to desert but to disarm the
Unionists. ''Part and parcel of the demand for withdrawal is the disbandment and
disarming of the British forces in Ireland, which includes the UDR and RUC.
These partisan militias are unacceptable.''

But would not the departure of the Army and the disbandment of the UDR and RUC
mean that the two armed groups left would be the IRA and any privately-armed
loyalists? A pause, and then: ''Because the principal responsibility for the
conflict lies with Britain, they must take steps to begin a process of
convincing the Unionists that they're going. How they do that, that ball lies in
their court. The dilemma facing them is huge, but it isn't insurmountable.''

But how would the average Protestant UDR man feel and react, having been
abandoned by the British Army, disarmed, and left at the mercy of those who have
killed so many of his colleagues and co-religionists?

''The UDR man's feelings don't come into it. If the British have the will to
break the loyalist veto, then they take the practical steps necessary. Once the
UDR is disbanded, the UDR man becomes simply another member of the community.
His interests in the island of Ireland will be represented by the person for
whom he votes.

''It's for an all-Ireland conference to give guarantees to convince Unionists .
. .to accept the political reality that Britain has gone. Unionists have to come
to realise that they share this island with the rest of us, and it is in their
interests to work out structures which guarantee the rights of all the children
of the nation.

''There is no community which seeks conflict when negotiation is possible: I
think that holds true generally, and it holds true for the Unionist community.
We are offering to Unionists and Protestants the first chance, in Ireland's long
tortured history, of genuine and lasting peace.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 1990, Friday

Two Palestinians on trial for terrorist attack in Germany

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 67 words


Two suspected members of the Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine-General Command, a terrorist group linked to the bomb on Pan Am flight
103, went on trial in Frankfurt, Germany, yesterday, charged with attacking two
United States' military trains. The two were arrested in Germany two months
before the Lockerbie crash and officials say there is no evidence to link them
to the attack.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            October 8, 1990, Monday

TERRORISTS ATTACK RUC STATIONS

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 66 words


Terrorists launched gun and bomb attacks on two police stations in West Belfast
tonight.  Nobody was hurt when shots were fired and devices exploded at the RUC
bases in the Springfield Road and New Barnsley areas, police said.  A spokesman
said there was no damage to the stations but windows in a number of houses near
the Springfield Road station were broken by the force of the explosion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           October 20, 1990, Saturday

BBC IN NEW ATTACK OVER TERRORIST BROADCAST BAN

BYLINE:  Keith Manning, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 175 words


A BBC chief renewed the attack over the broadcasting ban on supporters of Irish
terrorist organisations - on the second anniversary of its introduction.  John
Birt, the corporation's deputy director-general, said yesterday the Government
ban prevented broadcasters "capturing the full reality" of events and issues in
Ulster. The ban was brought in by the then Home Secretary Douglas Hurd, who said
terrorists drew support and sustenance from television and radio.  It means
direct statements by proscribed organisations Sinn Fein, Republican Sinn Fein
and the Ulster Defence Association, and their supporters, cannot be broadcast,
although the ban does not extend to newspapers.  Mr Birt said: "The BBC has
always been careful about interviewing members of Sinn Fein and other listed
organisations. When we conducted such interviews before the notice, with due
sensitivity to audience feeling, complaint was rare or non-existent.  "The
evidence is that viewers and listeners want full and sensitive reporting of
Northern Ireland affairs."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 The Press Association Limited

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           November 13, 1990, Tuesday

Terrorism act attack on Labour

BYLINE: John Winder

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 293 words


QUEEN'S SPEECH - A STRONG attack on the Labour party's declared intention to end
the Prevention of Terrorism Act, under which suspected terrorists can be held
for a time without charge, was launched by David Waddington, home secretary .
The act also gives power to exclude terrorists from a particular part of the
United Kingdom.

Speaking in the continued debate on the Queen's speech, Mr Waddington criticised
the recent promise by Roy Hattersley, shadow home secretary, to repeal the act
and asked how Labour reconciled that with the theme of the debate which Labour
had chosen: rights, freedoms and responsibility.

''What of the rights of those killed and maimed by the IRA? Would the freedom of
all those faced with the evil menace of the IRA be more secure if one of our
weapons against the terrorists was scrapped?''

He said that Labour had introduced the act and had recognised its value until a
different breed of Labour MP had come in in 1979.

If Labour had finally abandoned socialism and embraced freedom, he was prepared
to accept their conversion, but he did not see why any elector should vote for a
lot of Johnny-come-latelies repenting of their misdoings, and he quoted the
words of the general confession, adding: ''The idea of Neil kneeling is
unconvincing''.

Mr Hattersley said that the home secretary did neither himself nor the
government any good by suggesting that there were any MPs who did not detest and
did not wish to exterminate terrorism.

He took the opportunity to reaffirm, whatever the home secretary said, the
general determination of the House to obliterate terrorism from the United
Kingdom. However, in a free parliament and democracy there would be different
views about how that could be best achieved.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 21, 1990

Gladio arms vanished before Italian rightwing terror attack

BYLINE: By ED VULLIAMY in Rome

LENGTH: 210 words


EXPLOSIVES from the arsenals of Italy's Nato-backed shadow guerrilla army,
Gladio, went missing just before a rightwing terrorist attack, it emerged
yesterday.

Meanwhile, one of the generals involved in the secret Gladio militia has told
the Rome Commission on Terrorism that the organisation had plans to attack the
communist movement at home before any Warsaw Pact invasion. Previously Gladio
was said to have existed in order to fight an invading army.


General Gerardo Serravalle, head of the Fifth Division of the Italian Secret
Service, told the commission that although seven containers of explosives had
been logged at the Gladio arms dump at Aurisina, near Trieste, the police had
found only four containers with three unaccountably missing.

Carabiniere officers discovered the arsenal during January and February, 1972,
the general said. This was only two months before the murder of three
carabiniere at Peteano by a fascist car bomb, into which two Venice judges were
inquiring when they stumbled across the existence of the Gladio militia.

Although they reached no conclusion yesterday, the judges' questioning during
hearings in Venice explored suggestions that the explosives used in the attack
were from the Gladio dump.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1990 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 14, 1990, Friday

Jet bomb may have been Gaddafi's revenge; Evidence is growing that Libya was
responsible for the terrorist attack on Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie

BYLINE: By DAVID BLACK and HARVEY MORRIS

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 804 words


TWO MONTHS after the bombing of Pan Am flight 103, a fax was sent from the head
of the Libyan interests section at the Saudi Arabian embassy in London to
Tripoli.

It was signed by Salaheddin Msallem and read: ''Greetings of the revolution! We
take this opportunity to wish to you, 'Praise to God'. Our revenge has been
taken for our martyrs of American aggression by the slaughter of the American
and British imperialists. The American plane which crashed included some of the
savage American forces departing from Frankfurt to New York, via London.

''In my name, and that of my fellows we congratulate the heroes who did this
act.''

At that time, the Saudi embassy was looking after Libyan affairs in London,
after diplomatic relations between Libya and the United Kingdom were broken off
over the shooting of WPC Yvonne Fletcher outside the Libyan Peoples' Bureau in
St James's Square, central London.

The dispatch of the fax appears to have been disregarded at the time by the team
of detectives investigating the bombing.

The West's security services were satisfied that Iran had paid Ahmed Jebril's
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command to carry out the
bombing, and the Scottish detectives leading the criminal investigation were
convinced the men behind the actual bombing were all members of a terrorist cell
based in the town of Neuss in West Germany.

Jebril's alleged involvement also implicated his sponsor, President Hafez
al-Assad of Syria, with whom the United Kingdom had broken off diplomatic
relations after accusing his government of being responsible for a plot to blow
up an El Al flight from London to Tel Aviv.

However, restoration of relations between London and Damascus was one of the
first acts of the British government when John Major became the Prime Minister.

Assad has promised the United States to take action against Jebril's or any
other group found responsible for Lockerbie, but the West has never been able to
provide him with the proof.

After two years of pursuing members of Jebril's West German cell, and their
associates, across Europe, Scandinavia and the Mediterranean, it appears that
these men were not responsible for planting the bomb. But did their leader
ultimately have a hand in the plot?

Sources close to the investigation said the new evidence had not fully
exonerated Jebril.

It was still possible that he was recruited to carry out an attack against an
American aircraft but pulled out when his West German operation was uncovered.

Jebril's terror operations have always been characterised by meticulous planning
and strict attention to the internal security of his cells. Anti-terrorist
experts who have followed his career say it is highly unlikely he would have
used the Neuss cell after it was ''blown'' by a West German police operation
code-named Autumn Leaves.

Although most of the suspects walked free, experts believe Jebril would have
regarded them as ''tainted'' and either scrubbed the entire operation, or fallen
back on a contingency plan.

It may have been as late as the time of the West German Autumn Leaves operation
that the Libyans stepped in to fill the breach, although the fact that Libyan
agents carrying explosive devices were held in Senegal in February 1988 proves
that Libya was in the business of plotting airline explosions before the West
Germans disrupted Jebril's cell.

Colonel Gaddafi had his own motive for wanting to strike back against the United
States - revenge for the bombing of Tripoli in 1986 in which his adopted
daughter was among those killed.

What is known by Western agencies is that Gaddafi knows they know of his
involvement. In recent months he has been adopting a more conciliatory attitude
towards the West. He has also clamped down on Abu Nidal's terrorist
organisation, expelling its members from their bases in Libya and forcing them
to seek refuge in Baghdad.

This is being interpreted as an attempt by the Libyan leader to head off
eventual American retaliation for Lockerbie, possibly after the Gulf crisis is
resolved.

Dr Jim Swire, a spokesman for some of the British relatives of those who died on
Pan Am 103, said he had been kept abreast of developments in the investigation
by senior police officers, on the understanding that the information was in
confidence. A possible Libyan connection had not been mentioned at the time of
his last conversation.

However, through other sources, he had learnt of a possible Libyan link: ''I
have heard that detonators discovered in the possession of two Libyans in
Senegal, West Africa, were identical to the one they now believe was in the
Lockerbie bomb.

''The relatives feel that the deaths of their loved ones are being swept under
the carpet because it is inconvenient to identify the guilty at this time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1990 Independent Print Ltd

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            January 4, 1991, Friday

EXPELLED IRAQI DIPLOMAT WARNS ON ARAB TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 830 words


One of the Iraqi diplomats expelled from Britain because of Baghdad's threats of
terrorism left London today - and issued a warning that Western countries risked
attack by Arabs.  Naiel Hassan, a press counsellor at the Iraqi Embassy, said as
he left Heathrow Airport: "I am sure that if there is any attack on Iraq, a lot
of targets in countries in the west will be demolished." Mr Hassan, 43, a
journalist at the embassy and one of eight Iraqis yesterday ordered to leave
Britain within 24 hours, said: "The Foreign Office knows very well that we are
not such dangerous people.  "It seems the Foreign Office does not believe in a
free press and this is one of the reasons why I think I have been expelled.  "I
abide by the law. I haven't done anything against that.  "It is part of the
psychological warfare against Iraq.  "How am I a danger? I don't understand.
These allegations are baseless." Asked if there were Iraqis prepared to carry
out attacks on Western targets, Mr Hassan said: "Every Arab person living abroad
will do that. It is not a matter of Iraq pushing them, it is a matter of belief.
"I don't think seven diplomats will do all these things. You know how the
British deal with diplomats - they know exactly where they go, who they talk
with.  "I am sure the danger will come from within." Asked if Britain would face
such attacks, Mr Hassan said: "You would have to talk to all the Arabs in
Britain to see what their reaction would be towards that. "I don't know a
specific person or a specific name that would do that. It is a matter of belief.
"I think Arabs and Moslems will take action if a war is launched against Iraq.
"When it comes to a matter of war, everybody has a right to defend his belief
and defend his country. It is not a matter of trying to carry on the war in that
area only.  "If Iraq is going to be attacked, all Western countries will have
targets to be hit - and Britain has allied itself with the Americans in this
warfare.  "What kind of targets, I don't know. I know nothing concerning that.
"But we do believe that Arabs here and in all Western countries will launch
something against so many targets if a war is launched against Iraq."

Iraqi officials at Heathrow confirmed that seven diplomats and a security guard
from the embassy had left on a Royal Jordanian Airlines flight to Amman.  First
Secretary Salih Faraj Mohammad, who flew out with his wife Nasir and four young
children, said: "I am not a violent person. I am a family man. This action by
Britain is wrong. This is a very sad day." Third Secretary Hussein Muhammed
Jadoue left with his wife and two young children.  The diplomats were named as
Nattiq Bakir, an assistant press counsellor; Naiel Hassan, press counsellor;
Hussein Muhammed Jadoue, Third Secretary; Luai Sadik Mahdi, an attache;
Mudhaffar Mahmoud, assistant cultural advisor; Salih Faraj Mohammad, First
Secretary; and Kamel Khurshid Murad, an assistant press counsellor.  Officials
refused to name the guard.  The Iraqi Ambassador to London, Dr Azmi Shafiq
Al-Salihi, saw the group off at the airport.  Dr Al-Salihfi was called to the
Foreign Office to be told that eight of his staff had been declared persona non
grata.  The Foreign Office said when announcing the expulsions: "The Iraqis have
made a number of public threats. It is clearly prudent to take all precautions."
The Iraqi embassy is now left with 15 diplomats and 17 other staff, compared
with the six staff remaining in the British Embassy in Baghdad.  Due to follow
the diplomats back to Baghdad are 67 other Iraqis, mainly students, who were
issued with deportation orders yesterday.  The Home Office gave them a week to
leave and said they were being deported "for reasons of national security".
Last September Britain expelled 10 Iraqis, including the military attache, and
in November another diplomat was ordered to leave the country. On both occasions
Iraq responded with tit-for-tat expulsions.

A Foreign Office spokesman said after being told of Mr Hassan's comments: "That
serves to justify the decision that has been taken." Tory MP Anthony
Beaumont-Dark (Birmingham Selly Oak) called for all Iraqis in Britain who were
not political refugees to be repatriated.  "Only those who are political
refugees from that tyrant Saddam Hussein should be allowed to stay here. We will
have enough problems if war breaks out, without the police having to watch 5,000
Iraqis." He said Britain should use Iraq's frozen assets to repatriate the
Iraqis.

As the expelled Iraqis left there was confusion about exactly how many embassy
staff were on the flight.  Iraqi officials at the airport said seven diplomats
and a security guard were on the jet.  But a spokesman at the Iraqi Embassy in
London said only six diplomats and some family members left today.  In total
eight embassy staff were ordered to leave by 9am today. The spokesman said two
members of staff had left three months ago and were in Baghdad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                    FT Energy Newsletters - North Sea Letter

                                January 9, 1991

NORWAY TIGHTENS DRILLS AGAINST POSSIBLE GULF-LINKED TERROR ATTACKS

SOURCE: North Sea Letter

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 171 words


Norwegian North Sea oil companies have tightened drills against possible
terrorist attacks because of rising tension in the Gulf.

Norwegian Petroleum Directorate head of emergency preparedness Per Saltroe said
recently: 'We have had no indication that the risk has changed but the petroleum
industry has updated its existing contingency plans for terrorist attacks on
offshore platforms.' He declined to give details but said platform crews were
practising emergency drills.

John Hielm, assistant director of the oil industry association, said it had also
asked members to tighten preparedness and safety routines in view of possible
terrorist action against Norwegian North Sea installations. But the association,
representing all oil companies in Norway, did not want to exaggerate dangers.
Terror threats were nothing new.

In the UK sector both the Department of Energy and operators are saying little
beyond indicating there is a continuing high awareness of possible terrorist
threats in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newsletter

                Copyright 1991 Financial Times Business Limited

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 13 1991

Terrorism alert as Yard warns of bomb attacks

BYLINE: Staff Reporters

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 472 words


SCOTLAND Yard last night warned of pro-Iraqi terrorist attacks on targets
throughout Britain. A spokesman said people must be constantly on the lookout
for unattended packages in public places. The security forces are watching
Britain's 5,000 Iraqis, although most are exiles opposed to Saddam Hussein.
Palestinians and other Arabs are also under observation.

Home Office sources last night ruled out internment in the event of war. But
Iraqis whose presence is 'not conducive to public good' could be deported.


The intensified security follows a warning from an American 'think-tank' that
hundreds could be killed by terrorist bombs. Dr Bruce Hoffman, of the
California-based Rand Corporation, said yesterday that 'Europe is more likely to
suffer from terrorism than America' if war breaks out.

The Transport Secretary, Malcom Rifkind, said yesterday that air travellers
should be aware of the danger. Security at Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted
airports has been intensified .

British Airways has invoked a 40-point plan to improve security worldwide extra
staff overseas, more thorough checking of luggage and more guards at offices and
terminals.

The Foreign Office last night echoed Friday's warning by the US State Department
and advised Britons to leave Israel as soon as possible. But reports from Tel
Aviv said all outgoing flights were fully booked until Tuesday.

Swissair has increased the price of its Gulf flights because of higher insurance
costs. Some insurers have raised their premiums for Middle East flights by up to
2,000 per cent. Other major airlines are expected to follow Swissair.

If war does break out, television and radio stations will alter their schedules.
Both BBC and independent television are considering 'clearing the schedules and
providing open-ended news programmes'.

Teachers in British army schools in Germany would notify families of the deaths
of soldiers in the Gulf. A 'worst-case scenario' contingency plan has been drawn
up by the British Army of the Rhine, with teachers as bereavement counsellors.

Penn Pharmaceuticals, which makes nerve-gas antidotes, is taking on extra staff
at its plant in Tredeagr to cope with a massive increase in demand. It has
orders from the British government and several Middle East countries.

The head of Italy's state energy company, Gabriele Cagliari, has warned that
six- to nine-month war could push oil prices to over 80 dollars a barrel,
leading to a fall in demand of up to 3 million barrels a day.

Fears of a massive oil shortage were dismissed by the West's energy watchdog,
the International Energy Agency, which has a contingency plan to supply world
markets with an extra 2.5 million barrels a day if war disrupts supplies.

BP, Shell, Esso and Texaco have put up prices by nearly 7p a gallon.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 15, 1991

The Gulf Crisis: US prepares for terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By LARRY ELLIOTT in Washington

LENGTH: 438 words


THE Bush Administration is bracing itself for a wave of Iraqi-inspired terrorist
attacks on American military and civilian targets if a conflict begins in the
Gulf.

Security is being tightened at airports, screening of people entering the US has
been stepped up, and warnings have been issued to Americans travelling abroad.


Although intelligence reports suggest that terrorists are most likely to strike
in Europe or the Middle East, Washington believes that Saddam Hussein may be
attracted by the propaganda impact of an attack on the US.

Baghdad is known to have close links with some of the leading Palestinian
terrorist groups.

William Sessions, director of the FBI the body responsible for counter-terrorism
said yesterday that the pronouncements of the Iraqi leader meant that 'terrorism
may emerge and may explode worldwide'.

The FBI believes that a bomb attack in the US on a civilian target such as an
airport is possible. The agency has been interviewing Arab-Americans as part of
its domestic precautions.

Intelligence experts say that faced with overwhelming US air superiority, Saddam
Hussein has two main instruments of retaliation chemical weapons and terrorism
and will not hesitate to use both.

Others, however, say that the threat of terrorist outrages is along with the
possibility of the use of chemical weapons part of Saddam's psychological
warfare against the West and that groups are likely to wait for the US to drop
its guard before launching an assault.

Military bases and embassies are being protected against suicide bombings, but
the State Department believes it is also facing groups of professional
terrorists who will be keen to strike and then escape.

Up to 100 known terrorists with links to Iraq are believed to have travelled to
Europe alone in the five months since the invasion. Other likely trouble spots
include the Indian sub-continent, south-east Asia, and Latin America.

The State Department said it remained 'seriously concerned' about the dangers of
an attack following reports of planning for terrorist activity. These included
'suspicious people' spotted outside the homes of US diplomats, and video-taping
of embassies and bases.

The White House believes it is no longer as easy as it was in the 1970s for
terrorists to strike with impunity against Western targets, particularly with
greater collaboration between the CIA and the KGB.

However, Washington acknowledges that it is virtually impossible to provide
blanket protection, particularly for 'soft' targets such as schools and shops
used by American personnel overseas.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 19, 1991

War in the Gulf: The mobile rockets that threaten the allies - Saddam's
missiles: inaccurate, but a terror to civilian populations, Why the attackers
will have to return again and again, Iraq's Scud missile remains Pentagon's top
priority

BYLINE: By JOHN BRODER in Washington

LENGTH: 701 words


IRAQ'S Scud missiles, with a 30-year-old design, are considered highly
inaccurate and carry a relatively small payload. But early yesterday they proved
capable of at least threatening to spread war when Iraq launched several at
Israel.

Earlier this year, Iraq tested the weapon with a chemical warhead for the first
time, but it is not known whether it has developed an operational chemical
warhead for the missile.


The US war plan called for destroying the Scud launchers in the first hours of
the war, but clearly that mission failed, as Iraq was able to fire at least
eight missiles into Israel.

Pentagon officials said the Scud launchers, both mobile and fixed, were among
the top priorities for the air strike, and they remained anxious about the
surviving missiles after the first wave of attacks.

US military officials do not know how many Scuds remain in Iraqi hands, but much
of Saudi Arabia and the huge US force lie within their range. Analysts estimate
that Iraq had 108 Scud launchers, about two-thirds of them truck-mounted mobile
units.

Iraq has spent an estimated Dollars 1 billion to improve the range and accuracy
of its Scuds, purchased from the Soviet Union and North Korea. It was help by
companies and experts from Egypt, and Germany.

The original Scud-B has a range of about 180 miles and an accuracy estimated at
no better than a half-mile.

Iraq has developed a Scud-C, with a range of about 375 miles, which is known in
Iraq as the al-Hussein. US officials believe this was the model launched against
Tel Aviv.

A third modification, known as the al-Abbas, has a range of 560 miles. These are
launched from fixed sites in western Iraq. Israeli officials reported on
Thursday that US planes had destroyed these in the early phase of Wednesday's
air raids, but the Iraqi attack has called this into question.

In the so-called 'war of cities', in 1988, Baghdad fired 189 missiles at Iran,
including 135 at Tehran. The most they were able to launch in one day was 11,
and none was fitted with a chemical warhead. Although damage was relatively
minimal, the resulting terror hastened the end of the war.

A Scud equipped with a chemical warhead could, of course, cause more
casualities. But Israel's Jaffee Centre for Strategic Studies said last year
that the small warheads developed for the improved Scud-Bs decreased their
efficiency when delivering chemical warheads.

Three key facilities are at the centre of the Iraqi effort to improve its
ballistic missile capability. A plant known as DO-1, at Al Hillah, south of
Baghdad, primarily produces propellants for ballistic missiles. An explosion
destroyed part of the plant in August, 1989. Plant DO-2, at Falujah, west of
Baghdad, manufactures ballistic missiles.

A third plant, known as Project 124, also near Falujah, upgrades Scud-Bs to
al-Abbas and al-Hussein models. All three sites were high on US target lists and
preliminary reports indicated that they had been damaged by air strikes.

Two other ballistic missile plants, a testing plant at Karbala south-west of
Baghdad, and the Saad-16 research centre near Mosul, make and improve missiles.

The Patriot missile, a US-designed air defence weapon that has been redesigned
to track and destroy incoming short-range missiles, has been the last-ditch
defence against weapons like the Scud for US troops in Saudi Arabia.

In Saudi Arabia, the Patriot units, manned by the army, dot the landscape around
military and industrial facilities.

For several months, the Patriot missiles and software designed to intercept
short-range missiles have been delivered to US units as a priority. But this has
left Israel undefended by the weapons, despite the fact that the US shipped
several copies of the basic firing system to Israel early this month.

American officials said that Israel was not expected to receive the missiles and
software needed to shoot down missiles before April.

But even as the number of Patriots has grown around Saudi military
installations, the US military is wary about using them, preferring to rely on
air strikes at the missiles on the ground before they can be launched. Los
Angeles Times.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 22, 1991, Tuesday

Crisis in the Gulf: UK evacuates staff at risk of terror attacks

BYLINE: By ANNIKA SAVILL in London and MICHAEL WISE in Vienna

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 524 words


BRITAIN has started evacuating its staff from missions in Asia after
intelligence reports that they are expected to be targets of Iraqi-backed bomb
attacks and other acts of terrorism, British diplomats revealed yesterday.

British intelligence has indicated since the war began that the revenge attacks
threatened by Saddam Hussein world- wide would hit at Britons in ''an unlikely
place''. Those being pulled out as a result are, in the first instance, staff in
Pakistan, Bangladesh and the Philippines, which has a militant Muslim minority.
They include dependants and non-essential staff at embassies, airline offices
and British Council missions. London is also considering an evacuation from
Indonesia, which has some 95 million Muslims, though they are less politically
active than those in the other three countries.

''The spectrum of the threats is very wide, but the risk is higher in those
countries,'' said a senior British official. ''All we can do to protect our
nationals while they are abroad is to rely on the co-operation of security
services in the host country.'' Although authorities had been helpful in the
countries selected for evacuation, their large Muslim communities were
impossible to control. All British staff have already been evacuated from the
British embassy in Sudan, whose pro-Saddam government had proven less
co-operative.

The official said the Government hoped attacks in Britain were less likely after
the expulsion of dozens of Iraqis suspected of planning them. Aviation security
had been stepped up world-wide to prevent terrorism on British airlines.

Yesterday the Philippines ordered the expulsion of Iraq's consul-general in
Manila after ''strong evidence'' linked him to Saturday's failed bomb attack
against a US government library. An Iraqi national was killed and his companion
wounded when a powerful bomb, which police said they were trying to plant near
the library, exploded prematurely. In Pakistan, cities have been paralysed by
mass demonstrations against the war.

In Vienna, authorities said yesterday they had detained 11 pro-Iraqi Iranian
activists alleged to be part of a European- wide network preparing attacks. They
were believed to be members of the anti- Tehran People's Mujahedin. At least two
dozen more from the Middle East were said to be under close surveillance in
Austria, the focus of previous terrorist acts and frequently a transit point for
travellers to and from the Gulf region.

Iranian sources said ''hundreds'' of Iranian Mujahedin had been trained in
''urban terrorist operations'' in Iraq. The group has a base in France but is
increasingly active in Germany and Austria.

The French have also begun to fear attacks in their former colonies. France's
embassy in Tunis is guarded by tanks and armoured vehicles.

A large bomb blew up a US military customs clearance depot in Istanbul last
night, police said, causing no casualties but striking fear into the heart of an
American community already on high alert for a terrorist strike, reports Hugh
Pope from Istanbul.

The bombing was claimed by Dev-Sol, a banned revolutionary left group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           January 24, 1991, Thursday

BAKER VOWS VIGILANCE AGAINST TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE:  James Hardy, Press Association Lobby Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 404 words


Home Secretary Kenneth Baker today pledged continued vigilance against terrorist
attacks as an extremist group in Lebanon said it would take up Saddam Hussein's
call for a holy war.  He said the threat from Hizbollah confirmed the Iraqi
leader's support and financing for terrorist groups and dismissed his claim to
be involved in a holy war against the west.  Mr Baker made it clear that
detentions of Iraqis and Palestinians would continue as necessary in Britain but
ruled out general internment for the estimated 10,000 Iraqis resident in the
country.  "There will not be a witch hunt in this country, let me make that
absolutely plain," he said on BBC Radio 4's Today programme.  "The sort of
language of the witch hunt comes from Saddam Hussein, not from us. I have to
take action when I have advice in the interests of national security, and that I
am doing.  "There is a system where representations can be made. I don't want to
detain innocent people, I don't want to deport back to Iraq people who could be
victims of Saddam Hussein. My real consideration as Home Secretary is the
protection of people here and we have to take precautions."

Apart from detention, those precautions also included arming police and
deploying troops at major airports. It was also important for the public to
remain vigilant and report anything suspicious.  Of the Hizbollah threat, he
said: "This is the confirmation. We do know that over the last year or so
various terrorist groups have been harboured in Bagdhad and financed by Saddam
Hussein.  "It is part of his war aim to make it a holy war, it is not a holy
war.  "This is hostilities undertaken by the 30 allied nations to remove Saddam
Hussein from Kuwait, naked aggression, and there will be many Moslems who will
be glad to see Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait and indeed many Moslems who will be
glad to see the end of Saddam Hussein." Mr Baker said the Government was fully
aware that the overwhelming number of Iraqis in Britain were opponents of
Saddam's regime and posed no threat to national security.  "They think that he
is destroying their country and is a vile man and they don't want to go back to
Iraq, certainly while he is in power. Some of those have applied for asylum in
this country. There is no question of general internment at all." All detainees
were free to go if they wished, provided space could be found on planes going to
the Middle East.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           January 24, 1991, Thursday

Maximum alert for Americans after terror attacks

BYLINE: From Bill Frost in Incirlik

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 481 words


TURKEY - AMERICAN military bases, diplomatic missions, businesses and banks
across Turkey were yesterday put on ''maximum alert'' after two terrorist
bombings at offices used by American companies in Istanbul.

Just hours after the attacks, Tariq Aziz, Iraq's foreign minister, warned Turkey
that it would bear ''full responsibility'' for allowing the Incirlik air base in
the south of the country to be used by American bombers flying missions against
Iraq.

In a statement read on Baghdad radio and subsequently delivered to the foreign
ministry in Ankara, Mr Aziz said: ''A long history of good relations between
Iraq and Turkey has been spoiled by this hostile behaviour.''

Earlier this week, Baghdad radio broadcast a statement from Saddam calling on
Muslims to strike at ''the imperialist infidels'' wherever they were found.

Just after 9am three gunmen raided the offices of the American Home Board in
Istanbul. The board was described as a private educational and publishing
charity. They overpowered a guard before tying up staff and planted a small
device which damaged one office but left employees unhurt.

Ten minutes later four terrorists, one believed to have been a woman, forced
their way into the offices of the American Board of Shipping. They held staff at
gunpoint while they planted a bomb. Again the device did little serious damage.
One woman, thought to be a Turkish employee, was slightly injured.

Before leaving the offices the terrorists spraypainted a slogan on a wall: ''The
Middle East belongs to the people of the Middle East.''

The second attack was claimed by Dev Sol, a left-wing group active since the
1970s. It was thought the first bombing in Istanbul was also its work.

Two days ago Dev Sol said it had been responsible for the planting of a bomb at
the front door of offices used by American military personnel in Ankara. It
exploded but caused little damage.

Diplomatic sources in Ankara said yesterday that the group's attack came in
direct response to Saddam's call for a holy war against the Western allies.
''They are not particularly pro-Iraqi,'' said one diplomat, ''but they are
anti-American and bitterly opposed to the government of President Ozal.''

Dev Sol is just one of many groups threatening American bases, diplomatic
missions and businesses in Turkey. It has a reputation for efficiency. Last year
the group was believed to have murdered Hiram Abas, who was the former head of
Turkish intelligence.

American military bases and offices used by American civilians have been under
the tightest security since Operation Desert Storm began. Service personnel and
civilians have been warned that they might be targets.

In an incident last Tuesday, guards outside Nato headquarters in the city of
Izmir opened fire on a van being driven in what was described as a ''suspicious
manner''. One man in the vehicle died.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 25, 1991, Friday

Crisis in the Gulf: US renews warning of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By JOHN LICHFIELD

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 62 words


THE UNITED STATES re-emphasised yesterday its warning about a possible
Iraqi-sponsored terrorist campaign in the country, John Lichfield writes from
Washington. Bill Baker, of the criminal investigation division of the FBI,
warned that the Abu Nidal Palestinian group and the Iranian-backed Hizbollah
organisation were known to have a presence in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            February 1, 1991, Friday

Crisis in the Gulf: '70 terrorist attacks since start of war'

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 106 words


THERE HAVE been 70 acts of terrorism since the start of the Gulf war, including
11 between Wednesday and yesterday, according to the American State Department.
Incidents ascribed to Iraqi agents by American intelligence officers include the
failed bombing of a US library in Manila on 19 January and other, unspecified,
incidents in Thailand and Tanzania. Among the 11 most recent, involving groups
supporting President Saddam Hussein, were an attack on property in Yemen, three
incidents in Lima, two in the Philippines and one each in Amman, Beirut and
Santiago. A bank guard died during an attack in Lebanon on 23 January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           February 7, 1991, Thursday

THIS COWARDLY ATTACK - ANTI-TERRORIST CHIEF

BYLINE:  Peter Archer and Grania Langdon-Down, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 751 words


Police were tonight hunting two IRA terrorists who fled Whitehall on a motorbike
after a "well planned", but "cowardly and badly executed" mortar bomb attack on
the War Cabinet.  Commander George Churchill-Coleman, head of the anti-terrorist
squad, ruled out any links with any Arab terrorist groups with the attack which
shattered windows of the Cabinet room at 10 Downing Street.  He told a news
conference at Scotland Yard: "This attack is another example of the versatility
of Irish terrorists who I believe undoubtedly took advantage of the prevailing
weather conditions to mount their cowardly attack.  "Thankfully, no-one was
killed and severe damage was avoided. It was a well-planned, but badly executed
operation."

Mr Churchill-Coleman told the London news conference that shortly before 10.10am
a white Ford Transit van, similar to a builder's van, was driven along
Horseguards Avenue and stopped at an angle in the road at the junction with
Whitehall.  "At least one man was seen to abandon the van and within a matter of
minutes an explosion occurred along with a fire in the van." As a police officer
on duty in Whitehall approached the vehicle, three "improvised mortars" blasted
through a hole in the van's roof towards Downing Street.  The mortars, probably
containing Semtex high explosive, were fired from metal tubes, three to four
feet in length, by a short-fuse timing device.  The mortar launch engulfed the
van in flames.  One projectile landed in the garden of 10 Downing Street and two
others landed nearby on Mountbatten Green.  The mortar hitting the rear garden
of No 10 exploded causing minor damage to surrounding buildings and blowing in
the windows of the Cabinet Room.

The two others failed to fully explode and caught fire. Only four people were
slightly injured and were released from hospital after treatment.  Mr
Churchill-Coleman said: "There is no doubt in my mind that this is the work of
Irish republican terrorists and there are no links with any Arab terrorist
groups." Anti-terrorist squad chiefs believe the Provisional IRA is responsible,
but Mr Churchill-Coleman declined to "give them credit".  He said police
urgently needed to trace the movements of the van, registration number A862 NAR,
which was bought in London last July by three men who paid cash.  "It may be
that, since then, it has further changed hands and I urgently need to know where
it has been kept," said Mr Churchill-Coleman.  Police were particularly anxious
to trace any rented accommodation which may have included a garage or a workshop
where the terrorists may have used oxyacetylene equipment, welding or
metal-cutting equipment to manufacture the mortars and cut a hole in the roof of
the van.

The cut-out roof area had been sealed by tape sprayed the same colour as the
van.  "The witnesses that we have interviewed so far say the driver of the van
locked the door, ran to a waiting motor-cycle being ridden by a second person,
and made off," said Mr Churchill-Coleman.  The two terrorists made off along
Horseguards Avenue towards the Embankment.  "Once again, I would urge members of
the public to be most vigilant and to report to police anything which they
consider to be of a suspicious nature." Anyone with information should telephone
Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch hotline on 0800 789 321, where all calls
would be treated in strictest confidence.

The commander denied there had been any lapse in security.  "There are limits
how far you can go with security and precautions, bearing in mind you are
dealing with a versatile and sometimes very cunning organisation." He added the
terrorists had taken advantage of the Gulf crisis - "when people's attention is
diverted they will strike." Mr Churchill-Coleman said it appeared the terrorists
were not caught on film by any of the security cameras operating in Whitehall.
He went on: "The worst part of this attack was that these improvised mortars are
so inaccurate.  "It is a typical example of a cowardly attack which could have
caused death or severe injuries." One of the hallmarks of the IRA's bloody
campaign over the last two years has been the constant switching of tactics.
Attacks have included shootings, car bombs, devices hidden in a flower bed, left
on the roofs of buildings and even attached to a garden hose reel.  The
commander said: "It is extremely difficult to counter attacks in a big city.
Bear in mind they may use a different form of attack entirely tomorrow."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            February 8, 1991, Friday

Crisis in the Gulf: US citizen killed in terrorist attack

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 67 words


A LEFT-WING terrorist group in Turkey killed an American working at the Incirlik
air base. Bobbie Mozelle, 44, was the first US citizen to die as a result of the
wave of terrorism that has swept the world since the Gulf war started. The
shadowy group Dev-Sol, claiming responsibility for the killing, warned that
Turkish air bases ''cannot be used for the bloody schemes of US imperialism . .
. ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Investors Chronicle

                                February 8, 1991

EUROPE: European News: Fear And Loathing Hits The Tourist Trade - The threat of
terrorist attacks linked to the Gulf war has had a drastic effect on European
airlines and luxury goods groups

SECTION: Pg. 60

LENGTH: 648 words


BACK in 1986 the US bombing of Libya and the consequent fear of terrorist
attacks made American tourists stay away from Europe in droves. Now TV pictures
of tanks at Heathrow airport give credence to the belief that a military defeat
of Iraq could mark only the beginning of a long campaign. If so Europe's travel
industry will suffer even worse this time.

It seems that fear has already taken root. The effect on airlines of passenger
cancellations may have been overshadowed by worries over oil prices. But when
the war began, the effect on bookings was swift and severe, catching airlines in
a squeeze between high costs and reduced revenues. Their response has been to
take an axe to their schedules.


The Dutch flag-carrier KLM reports that in the first week of the war global
business was down ten per cent. And things are getting worse: last week's total
'tonne-kilometres' were down four per cent on the previous week. Three months
after announcing its largest ever winter schedule KLM has reduced the number of
flights serving half its European destinations.

With KLM's losses for the third quarter to December likely to be around DF150m
(pounds 46m), according to Kees de Kort of BZW, the full year will see it well
into the red. The share price is at a low of DF19.6 so there could be a brief
rally after the war on hopes of lower fuel prices. But on fundamentals business
is weak, with the fear of terrorist attacks compounding recession in the UK and
US.

Even Swissair, which ought to benefit from Switzerland's studied neutrality, saw
a ten per cent drop in traffic in the third week of January. The loss of
revenues from the Middle East, which was providing seven per cent of income, has
been a severe blow. Alitalia too has cancelled half its flights to the region.

But it is not just Middle Eastern traffic that is affected. Alitalia's European
flights have had to be cut by a third and even internal Italian flights are down
five per cent. Lufthansa has seen fear spreading among its customers in the same
way. The airline has thinned out its schedules, with flights on North Atlantic
routes cut by 20 per cent, and 12 per cent of European flights cancelled. On
flights going ahead the passenger- seat ratio is below 40 per cent: more cuts
are to come. The real test will come in the peak holiday period.

So far the effect on tourism has been marked. A survey of hotel occupancy rates
in France last week reported a fall of 20 per cent among four- and five-star
hotels. However, according to Vanessa Rossi, European strategist at Swiss Bank,
the fact that French hotel group Accor came off lightly, with motel occupancy
levels only slightly down, implies that some European providers of accommodation
could benefit from the general fear of flying.

The experience of French holiday villages group Club Mediterranee is in line
with this. It has seen a seven per cent drop in bookings this winter, even
though it is not severely exposed to the Middle East. County NatWest was
recommending its clients to sell the shares at FF389. The 80 per cent rise in US
profits for 1990 was expected.

Travel operators such as the Swiss Kuoni and German Karstadt are in for a bumpy
ride as the market makes up its mind whether the specialisation in exotic
destinations is a plus or minus point and bookings skew away from the Middle
East.

One clear loser, however, is the luxury goods business. Ivor Farman of Schroders
believes eight per cent of French champagne-to-luggage group LVMH's business
depends on duty free sales. Perfume will be worst affected. Yves Saint Laurent
had already announced that sales in the Middle East were sharply down. Farman
has reduced his forecast for 1991 net profits by 12 per cent, to FF210m (pounds
21.3m). Airlines and luxury goods manufacturers have more cause than most for
praying for an end to the war.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 1991 Financial Times Business

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 10, 1991, Sunday

The day the IRA came too close for comfort; John Major's life was not at risk
during last week's mortar attack. But, writes David Connett, terrorists scored a
direct hit on the reputation of police and security services

BYLINE: By DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 1198 words


JOHN MAJOR responded to the IRA's attempt to assassinate him and his fellow
members of the War Cabinet with studied calm. The composed brevity of his
proposal that they adjourn to another room belied the surprise he must have felt
that a mortar bomb could explode in the Downing Street garden.

The sang froid was not just an attempt to deny a propaganda triumph to
terrorists who had succeeded, to the security services' immense embarrassment,
in threatening the heart of British government. It came from the knowledge that,
even if the IRA had achieved a direct hit, Mr Major and his colleagues would
almost certainly have been safe.

The truth is that Downing Street has been turned into a fortress. The famous
facade is really the only remnant of a building once intended as the ordinary
residence in an ordinary London street of the British head of government. And
only a determined fight by the Property Services Agency, responsible for the
upkeep of Whitehall's historic buildings, has prevented security advisers from
changing even that.

Behind the steel-reinforced front door, and the metal and explosive detectors,
discreetly positioned to avoid affronting guests, the whole fabric of the
building - walls, floors, ceilings and roofs - has been stripped, reinforced and
rebuilt. People inside can move freely within a warren of tunnels beneath
Whitehall to emerge anywhere in the surrounding area, including Buckingham
Palace and the Houses of Parliament. On Thursday, the force of the blast below
the first floor meeting room was absorbed by reinforced brickwork and specially
protected windows.

Blast curtains below the level of the window formed a second barrier, stopping
everything except the chill draft which came in through the shattered windows.
Such injuries that occurred elsewhere were minor and from flying glass and
debris. Damage was more extensive than originally admitted but superficial.

The real damage, then, was not to government buildings, still less to government
leaders, but to the reputation of the police and security services. At a time of
unprecedented security, Irish terrorists were able to attack Whitehall's own
backyard. After the bombing of Brighton's Grand Hotel, during the Tory party
conference in 1984, the IRA said: ''We have to be lucky once. You have to be
lucky all the time.'' That warning echoed ominously last week.

For, in recent months, the police and security services have had lots of luck.
Scotland Yard was already reviewing its counter-terrorism procedures after the
IRA placed a lunchbox bomb in a lectern at the Royal Overseas League building in
Piccadilly after police had carried out a bomb search.

But, the security services say, there is little more they can do to improve
protection at the heart of government, while preserving access to one of
London's biggest tourist attractions. Reports of plans to close roads around
Whitehall are dismissed as ''pure speculation''. Increased security has already
cost an estimated pounds 40m a year. Further duties, such as monitoring Iraqi
and Palestinians , have stretched resources. Some sources thought events in the
Gulf might have caused the security services to ''become distracted as far as
the Irish are concerned, psychologically speaking.''

Planning for Thursday's attack, of course, began long before John Major came to
power. The vehicle and mortar were probably ready months ago. Reconnaissance
missions would have been necessary to judge the angles, distances and best
trajectory of attack.

But the terrorists are not just meticulous planners, they are also opportunists.
Their first car bomb campaign in London - in March 1973 - was launched when
parking restrictions were relaxed because of a rail strike. Last week, they used
the heavy snow to provide the cover they needed.

It was the first mortar attack on the mainland - something the security services
have feared since the Brighton bombing. Detectives almost certainly thwarted an
IRA attempt to use mortars when, at a flat in Clapham, south London, in December
1988, they found a document containing technical information about how far
mortars would travel.

An electronic equipment dealer was later jailed for 30 years for buying
vehicles, and renting accommodation for IRA safe houses. He also rented a garage
workshop in Leytonstone, east London.

Mortars, initially crude, have been constantly improved by the IRA. They are
comparatively easy to build from readily available materials which can be simply
adapted to enhance performance. The IRA's problem has always been in perfecting
the ballistics and aiming the weapon. RUC sources say they believe the IRA
perfect their weapons with tests carried out on remote farmland in the Republic
of Ireland.

Libyan-supplied mortars, along with rocket propelled grenade launchers and SAM-7
missiles, were among weapons confiscated by the French authorities when they
intercepted the Eksund, a fishing vessel used by the IRA to smuggle 150-tons of
Libyan supplied arms to Ireland. Security sources believe the terrorists ability
to use such weapons are limited by incomplete training or means of targeting.

US authorities have been very succesful at disrupting the IRA's efforts to
obtain what they need. Several people have been arrested following FBI sting
operations. The technology being sought included laser-guided systems used to
devastating effect in Iraq and Kuwait. Although unable to use the more
sophisticated Libyan weaponry, possessing it allows the IRA to perfect their own
self- devised versions of the weapons.

The security services still await the first mainland use of the drogue bomb,
which forced the Royal Ulster Constabulary and the Army in Northern Ireland to
reinforce Land-Rovers and other vehicles patrolling Republican areas.

But, whatever weapons the IRA has to hand, the capacity to launch depends on its
being able to maintain expert and experienced terrorist cells. Police thought
that at least two units were operating on the mainland. One, London-based, was
behind attacks on military and other targets in the capital and Home Counties. A
second was based in the Midlands and responsible for attacks at Tern Hill,
Derby, Leicester and Lichfield.

Cell membership is not exclusive with individuals coming together for particular
jobs, splitting up and reforming for other attacks. Some personnel are believed
to have moved freely between the mainland , the Irish Republic and the Continent
where other cells were operating.

Police believe they have already broken up one cell and disrupted part of
another. A number of people have been charged with terrorist offences and are
awaiting trial. Despite a number of arrests detectives never thought the threat
had receded. A shooting and bombing at a former Army firing range on Cannock
Chase, Staffordshire, last month was the first sign that at least one cell was
still active and that the IRA mainland campaign had started again.

The IRA is better armed and supplied than ever before. Despite successive
discoveries of weapon and explosive dumps, it probably has extensive, well-
hidden reserves. Nobody knows when it will strike again.

(Graphic omitted)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 4, 1991

Peace in the Gulf: US says Syrians helped prevent terror attacks

BYLINE: By JIM MCGEE in Washington

LENGTH: 335 words


THE threat of terrorist attacks against allied interests during the Gulf war was
neutralised with the help of countries like Syria, long believed to be among the
principal sponsors of terrorism, US intelligence officials said.

Syria 'shackled those elements of the terrorist organisations that are under
their control', an FBI executive, Oliver Revell, said. The Syrian efforts were
made once Damascus became part of the allied coalition and followed direct
expressions of concern from the US, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.


US intelligence had also detected indications that Iran instructed terrorist
groups under its influence to ignore Saddam Hussein's call for a 'holy war'
against the West, according to a US official.

In the murky world of counter-terrorism, success is judged by what does not
happen. Although they consider the threat still very much alive, despite the
apparent end of hostilities, Administration officials and intelligence officers
said the most immediate terrorist threats were thwarted by a multi-layered
strategy carried out by members of the coalition. 'It's no one thing,' an
official said. 'It's the totality of all these things.'

A far-flung network of Iraqi intelligence agents, operating out of embassies or
private businesses, was countered with the help of nearly 30 countries, who
expelled, arrested or put under surveillance scores of Iraqi diplomats,
businessmen and students.

In some cases these actions followed 'some very hard-nosed' briefings in which
US officials outlined to foreign ministers the extent of Iraqi networks
operating in their countries and issued stern warnings that Washington expected
those states to act on the information.

Some countries went so far as to co-operate with US teams in joint operations to
dismantle spy networks. 'Our people in a variety of countries performed
disruptive activities working to break up possible operations before they were
launched,' a Bush Administration official said. Washington Post.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 5, 1991, Tuesday

WADDINGTON ATTACKS LABOUR OVER TERROR LAWS

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 164 words


not to support the renewal of the provisions of the Prevention of Terrorism Act.
Lord Waddington, a former Home Secretary, firmly rejected Labour's suggestion of
all party talks on the Act's provisions. He said: "I cannot imagine that
anything could be more damaging than for Parliament to send out a signal that we
are weakening in our resolve to combat terrorism." The row followed angry
exchanges in the Commons yesterday when Labour voted against the annual renewal
of the provisions.  Tonight the Lords renewed the measure without a vote.  For
the Opposition, Lord Richard said the issues involved were "too important to be
left to a party dogfight". He urged the Government to join Labour in a "calm,
objective" examination of the role of the legislation.  But Lord Mason of
Barnsley, Labour's former Northern Ireland Secretary, insisted that there must
be no relaxation of the Act.  "We should use all the tools that we have
available to tackle terrorism," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 6, 1991, Saturday

IRA blamed for fire bombs; Anti-terrorist police believe incendiary attacks in
Manchester mark change of tactics

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY and STEVE BOGGAN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 634 words


THE IRA is believed to be responsible for the fire bomb attacks on shops in the
centre of Manchester early yesterday, in what appears to be another change of
tactics in its campaign in Britain.

Nine timed devices, each about the size of a cigarette packet, went off in and
around the Arndale shopping centre, damaging shops and severely disrupting
traffic.

Three unexploded incendiary bombs were discovered and defused later yesterday -
in Debenhams and Littlewoods department stores and in a football supporters'
shop. Forensic scientists were comparing them with devices salvaged from a
smouldering holdall found at Preston railway station on Wednesday night.
Scotland Yard anti-terrorist branch officers were last night assisting the
inquiry.

It emerged yesterday that Lancashire police had issued a statement on Thursday
afternoon, saying that ''an incendiary device'' had been found in the bag. This
was despite the issue of an alert to all police forces earlier in the day,
warning that a number of devices had been found.

Det Chief Supt Norman Finnerty, head of Lancashire CID, said that although
police had known within a short time there was more than one device in the bag,
a public warning was not issued until a report was received from scientists.
''We have to be careful about causing false alarms; the decision was taken after
careful consideration. The statement was not inaccurate because to my mind the
holdall was one device.''

In Manchester, British Home Stores and P&O Shopping Centres, owners of the
Arndale Centre, said they believed that such alerts could be passed to their
security officials.

Bill Connor, deputy general secretary of Usdaw, the shop workers' union, said:
''We will raise this at Parliamentary level. That sort of information could and
should be made available privately to large shopping centres.

''It could be done without alarming the public or encouraging hoax calls. The
results of a fire in a place like the Arndale could be horrific.'' Audrey Wise,
Labour MP for Preston, said: ''It would not be unreasonable for warnings to be
passed on to security managers. The sort of information police give each other
should be made available to those who are more vulnerable.''

Scotland Yard said last night that a ''routine warning'' of the possibility of
such devices being used by terrorist groups were passed to large stores several
weeks ago.

The first nine devices went off between 12.30am and 3.17am in or near the
Arndale Centre. Three caused minor damage in British Home Stores and one each in
Littlewoods, the River Island clothing store, Millets and Burton. Sprinkler
systems kept damage to a minimum. Further devices went off in Debenhams and a
menswear shop outside the centre.

The devices were mostly concealed among clothing or soft furnishings. Jim
Paterson, assistant chief constable of Greater Manchester, said it was
''extremely difficult'' for stores to ensure nothing was planted. ''Thousands of
people pass through the doors of such stores daily. It only takes a second to
conceal devices.''

Although no one had last night admitted the attacks, senior anti- terrorism
officers are assuming that the IRA was responsible. One said: ''This is
precisely the kind of change of tactic we have come to expect; it is only to be
expected they would try something used so much in Northern Ireland. The next
switch could be back to gunmen attacking human targets.''

Lancashire police are looking for two men, one who spoke with an Irish accent,
seen on platform three at Preston station at 8pm on Wednesday night. One was
carrying a blue holdall and spoke to a newspaper kiosk assistant. Officers are
also trying to trace everyone on the Euston to Glasgow train, which stopped at
Preston before the holdall was spotted at 11.20pm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 26, 1991, Friday

BOYS ATTACKED IN KNIFE TERROR BREAK-IN

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 135 words


Police are hunting knife-wielding robbers who tied up three children with
adhesive tape while they ransacked their home.  The three brothers, aged nine,
12 and 13, were on their own in the semi-detatched house when the men knocked on
their front door and forced their way in, Scotland Yard said. The three
intruders, all Chinese, took one of the children with them as they went through
the house in Audley Road, Hendon, north London, grabbing £3,000 cash, video
equipment worth £700 and jewellery.  A Yard spokeswoman said the boys were
uninjured.  One man suspect was six feet tall, aged 20-30, wearing white
trainers and a leather jacket; the second was short and fat, aged 20-30, about 5
ft 5 in tall, with brown short hair and a small moustache.  There was no precise
description of the third.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                      FT Energy Newsletters - Power Europe

                                  May 9, 1991

Public Power under attack from terrorist organisation

SOURCE: Power Europe

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 248 words


For the first time in recent years, Greece's state-owned Public Power
Corporation (PPC) has come under direct attack from Greece's leading terrorist
organisation, the 'November 17' group. The attack took place on May 1 when a 2.3
inch diameter rocket was fired at PPC's regional offices in the Agiee Anargirei
district, west Athens. As the attack took place at 12:35am, no one was hurt
although extensive damage to the interior of the building was reported.

The attack on PPC is the fourth such rocket attack by the same organisation this
year. Earlier attacks hit building targets including BP's main offices in
Athens, American Express and the Pentelikon Hotel.

The 'November 17' terrorist group has been active since 1974 and more than 15
individuals have been assassinated over the years. Victims have included
industrialists, bankers, USA embassy and army staff and ex-military and police
officers who were active during the dictatorship period (1967-1974).

Since the present Conservative government introduced a tough anti-terrorist law
last year, the press is not allowed to publish any proclamations or
'communiques' normally sent to newspapers after each attack. The terrorists
identified themselves in the PPC attack by telephoning an afternoon newspaper.
According to police sources, PPC has become a target following the government's
decision to allow PPC to seek foreign private participation in several of its
planned new power stations (PiE 93/2).

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newsletter

                Copyright 1991 Financial Times Business Limited

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 17, 1991, Friday

Pohl resigns over fears of terrorist attack on family

BYLINE: From PETER TORDAY in Frankfurt and JOHN EISENHAMMER in Bonn

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 485 words


KARL OTTO POHL, President of the Bundesbank, resigned yesterday out of deepening
concern for the safety of his wife, Ulrike, and two children in a society where
leading public figures have long been terrorist targets.

Appearing relaxed, good-

humoured and self-confident, he repeatedly stressed that his decision to leave
in October was for personal reasons.

Mr Pohl - a long-time associate of Detlev Rohwedder, head of the east German
Treuhand privatisation agency assassinated at Easter by Red Army Faction
terrorists - hinted at his fears when he said that ''for someone who has stuck
his head out for such a long time, especially in such an unfriendly environment
recently'', he would welcome ''a return to anonymity and private life'' after 21
years in public service, the last 11 as head of the German central bank.

Referring to his daughter, 12, and son, 10, and his decision to retire, he
added: ''It is up to you to imagine what is behind this.''

Mr Pohl is expected to be succeeded by Hans Tietmeyer, a highly experienced
Bundesbank director who himself narrowly escaped assassination by the Red Army
Faction in September 1988.

It is understood that Mr Pohl was finding the frustrations he was having with
the Bonn government - over European Monetary Union, the deteriorating domestic
economy, and the reorganisation of the central bank to incorporate the five
eastern states - outweighed the satisfaction of his hugely influential position,
in view of the risk to his family.

Mr Pohl said his departure, four years before his term of office ended, would
not affect German price stability, but he is known to fear that the soaring
costs of subsidising the former East Germany may take years to correct.

The Bundesbank was besieged with calls from the public yesterday urging Mr Pohl
not to quit. Chancellor Helmut Kohl and Theo Waigel, his Finance Minister, as
well as many international bankers, expressed their regrets yesterday at the
Bundesbank chief's decision.

Behind the apparent calm in Bonn, there is recognition that the premature
departure of a man of Mr Pohl's importance will contribute to the air of
debilitation surrounding the Kohl administration. Political weaknesses have been
exposed by mounting economic problems. In the east the economy has collapsed,
and in the west last year's boom is being sapped by plummeting exports, sharp
tax rises and high wage settlements.

The Bundesbank head is weary of struggling with a government which he feels has
largely created its own mess. His departure hardly reflects the confident view
of the economy that the bank formally claims to hold. It is a development that
Mr Kohl could have done without.

Mr Pohl is believed to have been in talks about a new job with several US
investment houses, including James Wolfenson, which is headed by his one-time US
counterpart Paul Volcker, former chairman of the Federal Reserve.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              May 24, 1991, Friday

PREGNANT WOMAN AMONG TERROR ATTACK VICTIMS

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, Press Association in Belfast

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 182 words


A senior policeman, a soldier and a pregnant woman were injured in separate
terrorist attacks in Northern Ireland today.  The policeman was shot and
seriously hurt while working in the garden of his house outside Enniskillen, Co
Fermanagh. The soldier and mother-to-be were injured when a bomb exploded
without warning in a derelict house in the New Lodge area of north Belfast while
a joint army and police foot patrol passed.  The soldier suffered leg wounds and
the woman back injuries. Neither was said to be in a serious condition.  The RUC
Chief Inspector was shot in his garden at Tamlaght three miles from Enneskillen.
A gunman drove up and fired a number of shots through the hedge.  The policeman,
hit in the stomach, managed to stagger to neighbours to raise the alarm. He was
taken to the Erne hospital for emergency surgery, said a police spokesman.
Unconfirmed reports said the neighbours chased the gunman on foot before he
escaped in a car.  At the same time last Friday the IRA murdered an RUC
reservist two miles away at Lisbellaw, when a bomb exploded under his car.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             May 25, 1991, Saturday

PREGNANT WOMAN AMONG TERROR ATTACK VICTIMS

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, Press Association in Belfast

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 229 words


Two policemen were seriously ill in hospital today after they were injured in
separate terrorist shootings in Northern Ireland.  In a third attack yesterday,
a soldier and a pregnant woman were hurt - although neither are thought to be
serious. An RUC chief inspector was shot while working in the garden of his
house at Tamlaght, just outside Enniskillen, Co Fermanagh. Police said a gunman
drove up and fired a number of shots through a hedge.  The officer was hit in
the stomach but managed to raise the alarm after staggering to a neighbour's
house. He was taken to the Erne hospital for emergency surgery.  At around
midnight, a second RUC officer was shot when gunmen opened fire on a police
patrol in Belfast city centre.  The soldier and the woman were injured when a
bomb exploded without warning in a derelict house in the New Lodge area of north
Belfast.  The soldier - part of a passing joint army and police foot patrol -
suffered leg wounds. The woman received back injuries.

The IRA also launched bomb attacks on police stations at Castlederg, Co Tyrone
and Lurgan, Co Armagh, but nobody was hurt.  The first attack was at Castlederg,
close to the border with Co Donegal, when a grenade was thrown.  At Lurgan
another missile was fired at the rear of the police station but police said it
landed outside the complex and again there was no damage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              June 3, 1991, Monday

TERROR ATTACK ON ARMY BASE

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 96 words


Terrorists today attacked a regular army base at St Angelo airfield near
Enniskillen, Northern Ireland. No casualties were reported at the base, which is
used for helicopter patrols.  Details of the attack were sketchy but terrorists
are known to have driven a lorry into a workmen's yard at a saw mill next door
to the base.  There was a loud explosion but it was unclear whether mortars were
fired from the lorry or if it was a bomb.  The explosion, heard over a wide
area, shattered windows in homes several hundred yards from the base.  Police
cordoned off the area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 4, 1991

New York women terrorised on subway by screwdriver attacks

BYLINE: By MARK TRAN in New York

LENGTH: 157 words


GUARDIAN ANGEL volunteers began patrols around three subway stations yesterday
in the face of the latest menace to terrorise New York - a man who stabs women
with a screwdriver.

The attacker, described by police as a muscular, 5ft 10in, black man has struck
three times around subway stations in a normally safe area in lower Manhattan.


The latest victim, who screamed and fought back furiously, was stabbed 15 times
and is still in intensive care with a fractured skull and broken facial bones.

'He walked up to her, put his arm around her neck and started stabbing her in
the back,' said the woman's brother, Howard Rubenfeld. 'He never said a word.'

Women who use the stations Broadway, Spring, and Canal on the Lexington line
have begun taking precautions, such as avoiding walking by themselves. Transport
police have stepped up patrols in the area and the Guardian Angels started
24-hour patrols yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              July 1, 1991, Monday

Nutritionist attacks 'food terrorists'

BYLINE: By JACK O'SULLIVAN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 7

LENGTH: 160 words


A leading nutritionist makes a scathing attack on ''food terrorists'' who spread
unscientific nonsense about so-called health foods in a report published today.

Unqualified ''charlatans and quacks'' have blown recent food scares out of all
proportion and created a climate of fear, according to Vincent Marks, professor
of clinical biochemistry at the University of Surrey and head of nutrition at
the Royal Surrey County Hospital in Guildford.

''It has always been the practice of hucksters not only to trade upon the fears
they create in their audience, but to divert attention away from themselves by
besmirching the good name of their critics,'' he says in the report Is British
Food Bad for You? from the Institute of Economic Affairs.

However, Professor Marks says the hysteria surrounding certain food scares ''was
undoubtedly fuelled by the inability of responsible scientists to answer many of
the questions raised by honest sceptics''.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                          September 21, 1991, Saturday

TERRORIST GUNMEN ATTACK HIGH COURT

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 87 words


Detectives were questioning a number of people today after a gun attack on the
Northern Ireland high court buildings in Belfast. Terrorists opened fire on
security forces in Oxford Street and shots were returned, but there were no
reports of injuries, the RUC said.  Weapons and a radio scanner were found by
security forces following the attack last night.  It is the latest in a series
of attacks mounted by terrorists.  Police confirmed that a number of people were
arrested in connection with the shooting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            October 8, 1991, Tuesday

TWO SHOT IN TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 141 words


Two men were today recovering in hospital after being seriously injured in a
terrorist gun attack on a bar in central Belfast.  Police said the men - a
customer and a barman - were wounded last night when at least two hooded gunmen
burst into the Ivy Bar and opened fire indiscriminately with automatic weapons.
A spokesman for the RUC said both victims were in a "comfortable" condition.
Officers believe the attack - near a heavily-fortified RUC station - was carried
out by republicans and directed at loyalists.  Earlier yesterday the outlawed
loyalist Ulster Freedom Fighters admitted trying to shoot dead a Catholic taxi
driver in Belfast. The intended victim escaped without injury when the gunman's
weapon jammed.

The Republican Irish Peoples Liberation Organisation later claimed it launched
the gun attack on the Belfast bar.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          November 16, 1991, Saturday

Anti-terrorist branch braced for attacks

BYLINE: By Stewart Tendler, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 333 words


SCOTLAND Yard's anti-terrorist branch has been watching for months for a renewal
of an IRA mainland bombing campaign which now stretches back to 1988. Last
night's blast in St Albans, near where the band of the Blues and Royals were
playing, may indicate that resumption.

The 30 incidents include the Deal barracks bombing and the mortar attack on
Downing Street. The attempt to assassinate the prime minister and war cabinet
was the first time mortars had been used on the mainland.  Commander George
Churchill-Coleman, head of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, said it was a
''well planned but badly executed attack''.

Later in February bombs exploded at Paddington and Victoria stations, killing
one and injuring 38. They were believed to be the work of an IRA team
responsible for the Downing Street attack. In June a bomb was defused outside a
theatre in Hayes, west London, that was timed to go off during a performance by
the Blues and Royals band.

The attacks trailed off in the middle of the year apart from the discovery of
several fire bombs in the West End.

Police, though, were aware that the IRA could reappear at any time. One of the
hallmarks of the campaign has been the way active service units have varied the
pattern of their attacks, changing from attacks on individuals to institutions.

They have constantly been seeking high-profile targets which would gain them
extensive publicity in between smaller attacks on recruiting centres or other
soft targets. Military concerts have been a favourite. In 1982 seven bandsmen
from the Royal Green Jackets were killed by a bomb in Regent's Park, and in
Gibraltar an active service unit was planning an attack on a military parade
when the SAS intervened, killing three people.

In the last year police have carried out a series of operations in a bid to try
to halt the IRA offensive and only a few weeks ago they released some details of
an operation which has cost millions. and involved many officers.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                November 17 1991

Blues and Royals become main target for the IRA: Aristocratic bombers Regiment
survives third terror attack

BYLINE: BEN MACINTYRE

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 473 words


AS ONE of the most colourful and recognisable regiments in the British Army, the
Blues and Royals have become a principal target of IRA terrorism in recent
years.

Friday night's bomb attack on the cavalry regiment is the third since 1982 the
year in which a car packed with gelignite and nails exploded as a troop of Blues
and Royals rode through Hyde Park, killing three soldiers and seven horses, and
signalling the start of a two-year mainland bombing campaign by the IRA.


Then, in June this year, a 30lb bomb failed to detonate at the rear of a concert
hall where the Blues and Royals band was due to perform.

The Blues and Royals which, with the Life Guards, make up the Queen's Household
Cavalry, are liable to terrorist attacks because of their ceremonial duties.

Distinctive in their red-plumed helmets at State ceremonial occasions such as
Trooping the Colour, the Queen's birthday and the State Opening of Parliament,
they are seen by the IRA as symbols of British domination even though, before
the Hyde Park bombing, they had only served one tour in Northern Ireland.

The Blues and Royals are quintessentially British, with the regiment's officer
corps recruited largely from the aristocracy and public schools, and a history
dating back to 1661. 'The Blues' was the nickname used for the Royal Horse
Guards who took up service under Charles II. In 1969, in Detmold, Germany, they
amalgamated with the Royal Dragoons, a regiment formed to defend Tangier in 1662
when it devolved to the crown as part of Catherine of Braganza's dowry on her
marriage to Charles II. The new regiment was equipped with Chieftain tanks.

Now, under the Government's defence review, 'Options for Change', the Blues and
Royals could merge with their fellow Household Cavalry regiment, the Life Guards
a move opposed by, among others, the Queen, their Colonel-in-chief. Rival
regiments unfairly refer to the Household Cavalry as 'the Army's only
self-financing regiments' because of their tourist appeal. But, as the regiment
jointly charged with protecting the sovereign on official occasions, the Blues
and Royals' function goes well beyond being an elegant backdrop for photographs.

This was illustrated in 1981 when a man fired five blanks at the Queen as she
rode to her birthday parade. The horsemen now wear discreet earpieces and are
said to be carrying other arms in addition to their heavy sabres.

The Blues and Royals saw action in the Falklands in 1982, and were subsequently
awarded a theatre honour by the Queen. The IRA leadership was infuriated by
British successes, which pushed Ulster from the news, and the Hyde Park bombing
was followed by an IRA statement referring to the Falklands. It marked the
moment at which the Blues and Royals became central to the IRA's mainland
bombing strategy.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 27, 1991

Cossiga agrees to answer judge's questions about terrorist attack

BYLINE: By ED VULLIAMY in Rome

LENGTH: 216 words


THE Italian president, Francesco Cossiga, agreed yesterday to be questioned by
the criminal prosecutor of Rome about Gladio, the Italian branch of the secret
Nato shadow army, and its alleged involvement in a terrorist bomb attack which
killed three policemen near Venice in 1972.

The Venice judge who stumbled upon Gladio's existence, Felice Casson, handed
over the bomb case papers to Rome last month. They charge the former head of the
secret service and a general with political conspiracy and forming an illegal,
armed organisation.


The bombing was first blamed on leftwing extremists, but later a neo-fascist was
jailed for his part. Mr Casson's indictment, however, places the attack within
the 'strategy of tension' whereby state agents mounted terrorist attacks
alongside rightwing groups.

Mr Cossiga has said he knew about all of Gladio's activities and has defended
their legitimacy. His letter yesterday, submitting himself for questioning, is
an attempt to defend the reputation of the accused and of Gladio by putting the
head of state in a position to be charged with similarly conspiratorial
offences. Mr Cossiga knows this is unlikely.

But the president is also trying to fend off an impeachment process demanded by
the ex-communist PDS on Monday night.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 1991

Environment: Eco-terrors and the illiberal tendency: Jonathon Porritt attacks
Britain's gathering anti-green backlash

BYLINE: By JONATHON PORRITT

LENGTH: 958 words


DURING the environment debate earlier this month Teresa Gorman regaled the House
of Commons with a hugely entertaining diatribe against all things green. Were it
not for the fact that it's impossible to take Mrs Gorman seriously, I might have
got just a little irked at being described as an 'eco-terrorist'. But to be
associated in that charge with no less a person than Sir James Goldsmith left me
too dumbstruck to do anything about it.

There's nothing quite so libellous in Andrew McHallam's new pamphlet for the
Institute for European Defence and Strategic Studies, entitled The New
Authoritarians (extracts were published in the Guardian on Tuesday, see also
Letters Page today), though members of the National Trust, let alone the Liberal
Democrats, may be surprised to find themselves tarred with the same illiberal
brush. I've never read one of the Institute's 'occasional papers' before, but if
they're all as dizzyingly unstructured, ill-informed and facile as this one,
then they're clearly on to a real publishing phenomenon. Mrs Gorman must have
already put in for a bulk order.


The New Authoritarians is riddled with a host of undefended and indefensible
assertions. By conflating all shades of green into one composite, all-purpose
model, anyone who has ever expressed an interest in the environment stands
accused of harbouring 'an innate tendency to collectivism' (Margaret Thatcher
and Peter Kropotkin would be equally aggrieved at such a charge), of wishing to
'return to an idealised past' (in the mass of green books published over the
last five years, not one provides evidence of any such retrogressive
romanticism), of being 'anti-urban' and 'pagan', with 'a worrying potential for
violence'.

There is no attempt whatsoever to adduce actual evidence of authoritarian
tendencies within the green movement - unless you count a couple of throwaway
references to Hitler and Pol Pot. As it happens, there is a handful of people in
the green movement whose ideas are distinctly 'illiberal', but their influence
is utterly insignificant.

It ill behoves McHallam to conjure up wholly fictional, quasi-fascist skeletons
in the green cupboard when not so far to the right of his own political position
there are some very real and very fleshy authoritarians only too keen to
suppress the first stirrings of democratic green politics.

Though its lack of any intectual rigour guarantees prompt oblivion for Mr
McHallam's pamphlet, it would be foolish not to see it as part of a wider
picture. Though it remains as yet unorchestrated, some kind of backlash is
clearly underway. It can be seen in the continuing attacks on Oxfam by
right-wing ideologues who want to see all such agencies tamely dishing out
charity rather than working for justice; in Sir Derek Barber's bigoted and
bombastic recent defence of intensive agriculture, which shocked even the Royal
Agricultural Society of England in whose name he claimed to be writing; in the
fulminations of fundamentalist Christians like Tony Higton who believes that
anyone within the Church of England who talks about the environment has been
subborned by demonic New Age forces; in a thin but steady trickle of polemical
papers from right-wing institutes, including the Institute of Economic Affairs;
in the pathetic efforts of the so-called Campaign for Real Education to prove
that the WorldWide Fund for Nature (WWF) is subverting the minds of young people
today with its educational material.

It's hard to quantify what all this amounts to. At the level of serious
political analysis or cogent rebuttals of the green movement's positions, almost
nothing at all. At the level of racy copy from those out to make their name in
opposing 'the new enviromental consensus', it's bound to reinforce the stance of
those politicians and industrialists who are hoping that all this greenery will
just blow over.

The green movement deserves better. In almost every other European country there
has been a lively and relatively informed debate about the origins, principles
and merits of green politics today. Despite the fact that in numerical terms
alone (with around four million paid-up members of national and local
environmental organisations) the green movement is one of the largest and most
influential in Britain today, most political commentators still go about their
business as if it didn't exist.

This is bad for the green movement, which urgently needs and would benefit
greatly from a far higher level of political analysis and criticism. It's
interesting to think back to the early seventies when the publication of books
such as Schumacher's Small is Beautiful and The Club of Rome's Limits To Growth
stimulated an intensely controversial debate that lasted until the middle of the
decade.

In comparison to the fiery encounters between Paul Ehrlich and Julian Simon, or
the 'no growth' versus the 'unlimited growth' lobbies, today's debate is tame
indeed. This may sound like a bit of devilish advocacy, but perhaps Andrew
McHallam is right to assert that the new consensus about green issues has been
too easily established.

Without a more informed debate, most people will continue to see 'the
environment' as a detached policy issue which requires no more than a few tweaks
to our existing political and economic systems. Worse yet, those who would like
to engineer a backlash against the greens will find it easier to attract
attention to their half-baked prejudices than would normally be the case.

In the interests of promoting such a debate, perhaps Mrs Gorman will accept a
challenge to talk about the environment on a motion of her own devising. There
would be no shortage of 'eco-terrorists' to help set her straight.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 2, 1991, Monday

Incendiary device increasingly used in terror attacks

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK, Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 425 words


THE IRA has perfected a new type of incendiary device which this year has been
increasingly used in shops and stores in and around Belfast, leading to millions
of pounds' worth of damage.

Use of the weapon is now a familiar part of the IRA campaign in Northern
Ireland, where scarcely a weekend goes by without some of the devices turning
up. They are easy to make and plant, pose little danger to those who use them,
and are hard to detect and extinguish. Firebomb searches are now routine for
staff in many business premises.

According to Royal Ulster Constabulary statistics, more than 100 have been
planted in the province this year; 39 were used in the first few weeks of last
month.

A few years ago incendiaries had practically left the IRA's armoury, only five
being reported during 1989, but last year saw an increase to 33. The new refined
devices are considered highly reliable; more than 70 per cent of them explode as
designed. They are usually timed to go off in the early morning, in the hope
that fire will take hold before the emergency services arrive.

A week ago the RUC in Belfast predicted a renewed wave of incendiary attacks in
the run-up to Christmas. Police appealed to shopkeepers to search their premises
meticulously at closing time. The devices can inflict devastating damage. Last
January, high winds fanned a fire started at a major out-of-town shopping
complex near Belfast, producing a blaze which caused damage estimated at pounds
25m.

In Britain, incendiaries have turned up on several occasions this year, but have
yet to inflict major damage. The weekend attacks may be partly due to an IRA
desire to show that the loss of two of its members in St Albans has not removed
its capacity to operate on the mainland.

In more general terms the organisation is always keen to use as many different
tactics as possible against as many types of targets as possible, to keep the
security forces guessing. It has thus made a point of using varying techniques
such as shootings, bombings and under-car boobytraps against military, political
and other targets. One part of its philosophy is to attempt to take to Britain
as many features of its Northern Ireland campaign as possible.

Such switches often tend to take the security forces by surprise, as in this
year's mortar attack on 10 Downing Street. Apart from that incident, however,
1991 has been a bad year for the IRA both in England and on the Continent, with
both the level and effectiveness of attacks falling in comparison with previous
years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            December 2, 1991, Monday

Public warned to expect IRA terror attacks

BYLINE: By Stewart Tendler, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 714 words


POLICE last night began a hunt for IRA terrorists after incendiary devices
started fires in stores in the West End of London early yesterday and an
explosives cache was found in a suburban garage.

As the operation started, Commander George Churchill-Coleman, national
co-ordinator of police anti-terrorist investigations, warned the public to be
vigilant in the coming days.

Police are discounting suggestions of a pre-Christmas campaign, although the
incendiary devices could mark the start of such an effort, causing maximum
dislocation during the weeks when streets and shops are at their busiest.

Police have grown increasingly worried over the past fortnight that the IRA may
attempt to carry out a large attack on the mainland or in London to mark the
burial at Milltown cemetery i Belfast tomorrow of Frank Ryan, one of the two
activists killed at St Albans attempting to bomb the band of the Blues and
Royals on November 15. Police believe such an attack would be used to offset
recent setbacks the IRA has suffered on the mainland.  Yesterday's incendiary
devices started fires at three shops in Tottenham Court Road. Two do-it-yourself
shops were also attacked in Belfast in what was believed to have been a
co-ordinated effort.

The London bombers chose furniture stores which are vulnerable to incendiary
attacks and left the devices at a branch of Habitat within the Heal's building,
the World of Leather and the Reject Shop. Police believe an incendiary device at
Discount Furniture in York Way near King's Cross station was also part of the
attack.

Hundreds of people living close to the fires in Tottenham Court Road were
evacuated as firemen fought the flames, which caused extensive damage to the
Reject Shop. Police said the devices were well hidden.

Nick Mailer, sales manager at World of Leather, said three incendiary devices
went off in his shop, one of them close to a children's playroom.  They had all
been placed in a chair or sofa, but the fires were extinguished by the shop's
sprinklers. He said it was too soon to assess the damage, the worst of which was
caused by water from the sprinklers. He hoped that the shop would be able to
reopen tomorrow.

Mr Mailer said it appeared that the devices were planted some time during the
shop opening hours, possibly last week. He said that the outcome could have been
far more serious if the devices had gone off when the shop was open,
particularly as one was planted close to a play room. ''We have been very lucky.
I would imagine there would have been panic in here if we had had people in,''
he said.

The fires began as police were investigating the discovery on Friday night of a
cache of Semtex explosive left in a lock-up garage in Wanstead, east London. The
explosive, believed to weigh more than 10lb, was discovered in Selworthy Close
when an off-duty policeman on his way to meet his girl friend challenged a man
he saw carrying a bag and acting suspiciously. The suspect fled before he could
be questioned, leaving behind a bag with two handguns inside.

Police searched the area and discovered the explosive. They believe the suspect
was about to collect the explosive either to move it or for use i making bombs.

Last night police issued photographs of Frank Ryan, aged 25, and Patricia Black,
aged 18, who were killed at St Albans, in the hope of finding where they were
staying and uncovering the trail of the rest of the active service unit working
with them. The dead man, born in Isleworth, west London, is said to have had
contacts in London and Harlow, Essex, while the dead girl, from Belfast, may
have had contacts in London and Manchester.

Within Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch there is now suspicion that the
couple were involved in an earlier failed attack against the band in June at a
hall in Hayes. The bomb was recovered by police and the IRA renewed their
attack.

The discovery of the bomb store at Wanstead, which may have been used by the
couple, the flight of a suspect and the incendiary devices indicate the IRA's
continued presence on the mainland. There is also alarm within Special Branch
that the two IRA suspects, Nessan Quinlivan and Pearse McAuley, who escaped from
Brixton prison in July, could still be in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 Times Newspapers Limited

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            December 8, 1991, Sunday

MEN BEATEN IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 88 words


Two men were beaten unconscious in a so-called punishment attack by republicans
in West Belfast early today. Police said the two, and a third man, were
discovered by an ambulance crew, apparently called out by the attackers after
they disappeared.  Meanwhile, in a separate attack at Derriaghy, near Dunmurry
on the southern outskirts of Belfast, a 29-year-old man was found unconscious
after being slashed in the face and neck by a gang using a knife.  Police said
the victim was taken to hospital and later released.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1991 The Press Association Limited

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 31, 1991, Tuesday

Terror alert cuts Tube sex attacks

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 94 words


A sharp fall in the number of sex attacks on women Tube passengers this year was
due to extra police vigilance in response to the threat of Iraqi and IRA
terrorism, according to British Transport Police.

Indecent assaults fell by a fifth in the first 11 months of this year, with 206
attacks taking place, compared with 248 in the same period last year. Total
crime was also down, by 3.4 per cent, and a police spokesman said Tube journeys
were three times safer than walking. However, attacks on officers rose by 40 per
cent from January to November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 2, 1992, Thursday

Girl skater is dragged into car by sex prowler;
Child attacked and dumped after terror ride

BYLINE: Aubrey Chalmers

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 654 words


A DRIVER who snatched a girl of nine from outside her grandmother's home and
subjected her to an hour-long sex ordeal was being hunted last night.

He threatened to kill the girl with a pair of scissors as she bravely tried to
shout for help from the window of his car. Then, after attempting to rape her,
he drove off, leaving the terrified girl alone in a field in the dark.

Detectives say she will bear the mental scars of her ordeal for the rest of her
life. 'It stopped just short of rape,' said Detective Chief Inspector Ken Evans.
'This was a frail nine-year-old girl who was subjected to a terrifying attack.

'It was a despicable assault and I cannot find words to describe it. Any man who
can do this to a child defies description.'

The girl was staying with her grandmother in Northfield, Birmingham.  Wearing
her new roller skates, had gone on an errand to a neighbour's house at 5pm on
New Year's Eve. She was grabbed from behind as she returned and was bundled
screaming into a car and driven about four miles into the countryside.

'She was a few yards from her grandmother's door when it happened,' said Mr
Evans.

The child was slapped and threatened with murder as she screamed for help and,
according to detectives, was constantly sexually assaulted as her kidnapper
drove along country lanes.

He stopped in a layby at Frankley Green and committed a serious sexual assault.
Then he drove on and stopped again at the entrance to a field. He marched the
girl from the car, made her climb over an iron gate, and then forced her to the
ground where he tried to rape her before driving off.

Twice the distraught child tried to flag down passing cars. Another motorist
gave her a lift back to her grandmother's home where she sobbed out details of
her ordeal.

Yesterday she broke down when she took police back to the spot where the attack
happened. Mr Evans said: 'My officers have been sickened by what happened to
this brave little girl.'

The kidnapper is white, aged between 30 and 40, and had not shaved for several
days. He wore a baggy white round-neck jumper with a brown pattern and dark
trousers with a silver or gold buckle. His red or dark-brown car had a wooden
bead cover on the driver's seat.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                           January 18, 1992, Saturday

RAPIST'S TRAIL OF TERROR;
ATTACKER GETS 15 YEARS AFTER VICTIM SPOTS HIM WITH WIFE AND CHILDREN

BYLINE: James Golden

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 734 words


A RAPIST terrorised teenage girls at knifepoint for two years until his youngest
victim spotted him in a hamburger bar with his wife and two children.

The 14-year-old, who less than two months before had been dragged into bushes
and attacked, alerted staff who called police.

Afterwards Andrew Singh told detectives: 'It made me feel sick. I was too weak
to control it.'

Yesterday the 31-year-old factory worker was jailed for 15 years after admitting
four rapes and one attempted rape in Coventry.

Singh began his attacks in July, 1989, when he tried to rape a girl as she
walked through a car park, Birmingham Crown Court was told.

Friend

Eight days later he grabbed a mother of five on her way home alone and raped her
after threatening to kill her.

Two months after that, pretending to be a taxi driver, he picked up a
16-year-old girl and her friend. After dropping off the friend he raped her.
She screamed for help and tried to tell him she was only 15. He apologised but
carried on with the attack, threatening to kill her if she told anyone what had
happened.

Singh, who had left his wife and set up home with an 18-year-old girl, did not
attack again for 18 months.

His next victim was again a 16-year-old whom he asked for money and then raped
after producing a knife. His final victim was the 14-year-old.

Mr Malcolm Morse, prosecuting, said almost all Singh's victims had experienced
difficulty in sleeping and personality changes and needed treatment after their
ordeals.

He said Singh told police that he used the knife, found in his car after his
arrest, to put fear into them. He said he did not know how it started, but once
it did he could not control himself.

Mr Justice Judge said: 'This was a campaign of rape. You attacked five women,
four under 20 and one of 14. Each was a dreadful crime indeed.

Degrading

'They were violated as they walked home at night or in the evening. In each case
the use of a knife or threat of a knife was what made them compelled to submit
to you.

'For each it was a horrible and degrading experience - each has continued to
suffer from the consequences.'

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 18, 1992, Saturday

Attack underlines IRA commitment to destructive terror; The political
consequences of civilian murder are being ignored by hardline republicans,
writes David McKittrick

BYLINE: By DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 582 words


LAST NIGHT'S attack on a busload of civilian workers is further confirmation of
the IRA's trend towards purely destructive militarism, taking ever less account
of the political consequences.

The bombing brings to 26 the number of civilians connected to the security
forces it has murdered since 1985. But most have been single killings; last
night's slaughter of seven lends an extra dimension to the campaign.

It signifies that the terrorists hope to make 1992 as bloody a year as the
previous 12 months. In 1991, they slipped many of their political shackles,
leaving Sinn Fein looking isolated and impotent. The IRA bombed Protestant
housing estates and attacked Protestants who they claimed were loyalist
extremists. Its members assassinated two soldiers with a bomb planted in a
hospital, killed Protestant remand prisoners in a jail and forced several people
to act as ''human bombs''. They used incendiaries and large van-bombs to wreak
destruction in Belfast, impervious to the inevitable job losses.

The IRA has no real ambition to increase the Sinn Fein vote at the general
election and believes that the increased violence will not cost Gerry Adams, the
Sinn Fein president, his West Belfast seat.

Attacks on security force suppliers began in 1985, and have led to considerable
disruption of the RUC's major building, renovation and repair programme.

Last year, two prominent Belfast businessmen were killed at their premises as
part of this campaign. They were Wallace McVeigh, a fruit wholesaler, and John
Haldane, a building supplier. Mr Haldane's firm later said it would not supply
the security forces.

Several workmen are among those who have been murdered, including a 22-year-old
electrician and two labourers in their sixties.

A horrific new ploy was unveiled late in 1990 when the IRA began to use ''human
bombs''. At gunpoint, individuals with security force connections were forced to
ferry large bombs to Army or RUC installations. The first such incident, in
October that year, led to the death of a Catholic worker, Patsy Gillespie, and
six soldiers in a huge explosion at a border checkpoint near Londonderry. At
least two other men with security force connections have had lucky escapes in
similar attacks.

Over the years, many businesses have withdrawn from security force work, actions
that have cost many jobs. At one point, the authorities faced a crisis as the
building and repair programme fell behind schedule, while great inconvenience
was caused by more prosaic matters such as the supply of meals to troops and
police.

Several firms have placed advertisements in local newspapers declaring that they
do not supply the security forces.

One catering company said some items had been unintentionally supplied to
security force bases but promised: ''Great care will be taken that this will not
occur again.'' A local party condemned such declarations as ''public grovelling
at the point of a gun''.

Overcoming the IRA's intimidation has not been easy, but the authorities have
combated it by measures such as bringing in workers from Britain.

Those in Northern Ireland still prepared to work for the security forces may
receive special protection, which can include the issue of personal weapons,
bodyguards, armour-plated cars and elaborate security measures at their homes.
Some of those involved in building work live on the premises for five days a
week and emerge only at weekends. All are advised to take security precautions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 30, 1992

SECRET NATO NETWORK BRANDED SUBVERSIVE;
Commission finds that Gladio, the alliance's underground arm in Italy, became a
focal point for fascist elements bent on combating the communists by instigating
terrorist attacks to justify repressive laws

BYLINE: ED VULLIAMY IN ROME

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 784 words


GLADIO, the Italian wing of Nato's proposed guerrilla network intended to fight
against a possible Warsaw Pact invasion, was yesterday pronounced a clandestine
and illegal "armed band" involved in subversion by an Italian parliamentary
commission on terrorism.

The verdict will have explosive political consequences in the wake of President
Francesco Cossiga's recent staunch defence of the organisation's legitimacy.

Meanwhile, a memo of interim "notes for indictment" by two military judges from
Padua examining the legality of Gladio has accused six secret service generals
organising the network of "high treason and sabotage of the constitution". The
judges cite a Gladio document urging "possible acts of terrorism with which to
charge insurgents".

The judges add that Gladio became a focal point for fascist members of the
"Marine Star" Mussolini veterans' group set up after the second world war.

Two months ago, President Cossiga publicly defended Gladio, saying that if its
leaders were criminals, so was he.

But yesterday's commission report obliges the judiciary to pursue charges
against Gladio's organisers, and puts the presidency and legislature in
collision in the run-up to an election. The presidential palace was making no
comment yesterday.

After 16 months of investigation, the parliamentary commission gives the first
official confirmation that Gladio overstepped its official Nato brief to prepare
for guerrilla warfare against Warsaw Pact armies. Instead it became involved in
combating the Communist Party and also in the "strategy of tension", whereby
state agents instigated terrorist attacks so as to try to justify repressive
laws.

The president of the commission, Libero Gualtieri, a Republican Party senator,
wrote: "There was no justification for Gladio, neither at the start nor the
finish. Indeed, there was an increase in its threat and its illegality with the
passing of years.

"Not everything that occured in the murky years of our recent history can be
ascribed to Gladio, but Gladio was a component in that strategy which by
planting within the system elements of tension, justified the the chance for
'stabilising' interventions."

Gladio emerged when a Venetian judge, Felice Casson, was investigating a bomb
attack that killed three policemen in 1972, and discovered that the explosives
used had been taken from a secret Nato arms dump. He subsequently handed the
case to the constitutional court in Rome, and the battle with President Cossiga
commenced.

Politicians have tried to distance themselves from Gladio, but two weeks ago, Mr
Cossiga - who has no qualms about openly defending what he sees as a legitimate
anti-communist operation - caused embarrassment by saying that all those in
power then and now knew about Gladio's work. Mr Cossiga faces an impeachment
motion over the issue by the Social Democracy Party (formerly the Communist
Party).

During Italy's terrorist years, "armed band" was defined under law and it is an
offence to organise or belong to one.

The parliamentary commission is not authorised to accuse people of being
implicated in specific incidents of terrorism, but the report urges the courts
to proceed against "those interventions that have relevance to the law".
Senator Gualtieri writes: "In secret service literature, Gladio is always 'the
noted organisation'. To the state, it was 'unknown'. The time has come to act
and to punish those responsible for the deception."

Meanwhile, an "information for indictment" memorandum on the legality of Gladio
compiled by the two military judges from Padua warns of the imminent arrest of
six generals from the secret services on charges of high treason and sabotage of
the constitution.

Their interim indictment is based upon documents exchanged between the generals
and the secret "Office R", Gladio's headquarters, which show the generals -
including the head of Gladio from 1971 to 1974, Gerardo Serravalle - clearly
outlining a programme for political disruption and "possible acts of terrorism".

The judge's memo says that Gladio's militants included members of the "Marine
Star' group of former fascists.

- In a parallel development, the commission said on Tuesday night that
government files on the 1978 kidnapping and murder of the Christian Democrat
president, Aldo Moro, had disappeared from the ministry of the interior.

The interior minister, Vincenzo Scotti, admitted that the papers had gone. They
contained all official logs of phone calls, contacts with the security forces
and minutes of meetings made during the 55 days of Moro's kidnapping. Francesco
Cossiga was interior minister at the time.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                           February 21, 1992, Friday

FURY AT THE FUNERAL;
(1) PRIEST BLASTS IRA ORDERS 'THAT SENT MEN TO DEATHS' (2) MOURNERS WALK OUT
AFTER PULPIT ATTACK ON TACTICS OF THE TERRORISTS

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 787 words


HUNDREDS of militant Republicans stormed out of a funeral for terrorists Kevin
O'Donnell and Sean O'Farrell yesterday after a priest attacked IRA tactics.

Monsignor Liam MacEntegart told mourners in Coalisland, Co Tyrone, that the IRA
leaders' actions in sending four men to their deaths last Sunday in a machine
gun attack on a police station were 'ill-conceived'.

Despite his call for an inquiry into the shooting, and criticism of the Army,
whom he accused of 'falling below the standard expected of them', relatives and
friends of the dead men walked out when he made an emotional appeal for the IRA
to end the killings.

'Many of their actions, including the orders that sent these young men to their
deaths, can only be described as ill-conceived,' he said.

O'Donnell, 21, who was acquitted on terrorist charges at the Old Bailey last
year, was reputed to be the IRA's second-in-command in Co Tyrone.

He and O'Farrell, 22, were the leaders of the gang ambushed after attacking the
heavily-fortified Coalisland police station with a machine gun mounted on a
lorry.

Clashed

They were buried yesterday in the Church of the Holy Family's cemetery, where
hundreds of police and troops had been drafted in to prevent the Provos firing a
gun salute over the coffins.

Earlier, the priest and relatives clashed at the church door when mourners
insisted on keeping the Irish tricolour on top of the coffins.

Monsignor MacEntegart eventually backed down and allowed the flags to remain.
But he protested that the family and friends had 'put him in a bad situation'.

Normally the tricolour is removed from the coffins of IRA men before they are
taken into Catholic churches.

The mourners' insistence on keeping the flag in place is likely to spark
criticism from Archbishop Cahal Daly, leader of the Church in Ireland.

Ulster secretary Peter Brooke is to decide how long IRA killer Joseph Doherty
will spend in prison.

Doherty, 37, was flown back to Ulster yesterday after losing his marathon fight
against deportation from America.

He escaped from jail in Ulster in 1981 and fled to the U.S. while awaiting trial
for the machine gun murder of SAS Captain Herbert Westmacott in Belfast. In his
absence he was sentenced to 30 years in prison.

He is now expected to be charged with jailbreaking too, but in determining the
length of sentence, Mr Brooke may take into account the nine years he spent
behind bars in America during the legal wrangle over his deportation.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1) HUNDREDS OF POLICE WERE DRAFTED IN TO PREVENT AN IRA GUN SALUTE AT
THE FUNERAL (2) O'DONNELL'S COFFIN IS CARRIED TO THE CHURCH DRAPED WITH A
TRICOLOUR AND BERET (3) MONSIGNOR MCENTEGART TRIES TO BAR THE FLAG FROM THE
CHURCH (4) LEADER: O'DONNELL (5) AMBUSHED: O'FARRELL

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 25, 1992, Tuesday

Parliament and Politics: Baker attacks Opposition over anti-terror Act;
Prevention of Terrorism; Commons debate

BYLINE: By STEPHEN GOODWIN, Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 501 words


ROY HATTERSLEY, the shadow Home Secretary, tried to shake off the Conservative
taunt that Labour is ''soft on terrorism'' yesterday, telling MPs the party
would fight the IRA with no less passion than the Government but with more
practical determination.

Moving the annual renewal of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, Kenneth Baker, the
Home Secretary, said Labour's opposition to the measure was ''hugely unpopular
and irresponsible''.

Ulster Unionists warned it would give ''the wrong message'' to the people of
Northern Ireland and the terrorists if there was a division on the Act, which
proscribes the IRA and the Irish National Liberation Army, and provides powers
of exclusion and for detention of up seven days.

The renewal order was carried by 300 votes to 115. Although Labour put the Act
on the statute book in 1974, Mr Hattersley has argued since 1983 that parts of
it are counterproductive. The Liberal Democrats supported the Act's renewal.

The Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionists, said proscription
should be extended to Sinn Fein, ''for Sinn Fein is part of the IRA''.

Defending the exclusion power, Mr Baker cited the case of Kevin Barry O'Donnell,
one of four IRA men who died in a gun battle with the Army last week. He was
acquitted at the Old Bailey last year of possessing arms but then excluded from
Great Britain.

Mr Baker predicted, correctly, that Labour would recommend inter-party talks on
replacing the Act, but said it was ''pathetic'' to call for a committee to fight
terrorism. ''You don't fight terrorism with agendas. . . You don't do it by
talking tough and acting soft. What the public want is the prevention of
terrorism, not a convention on terrorism.''

Mr Hattersley said Mr Baker had discussed the battle against terrorism in ''the
language of an eve-of-poll rally'' and confirmed his reputation as ''the
cheapest Home Secretary this century''.

''We don't propose to take any lessons from the man who was Home Secretary when
the two men most wanted for terrorism escaped from Brixton prison.''

Declaring that after the election Labour would renew its offer of inter-party
talks, Mr Hattersley said there should be judicial review before detention was
extended from 48 hours to seven days, and the safeguards of the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act, particularly taping interviews, should be extended to
interrogation of those held under the Act.

Last year, 153 people were detained under the Act but only four were charged, he
pointed out. Exclusion orders were ''wrong in principle and counterproductive in
practice'', Mr Hattersley said.

Mr Baker dismissed reports of a dispute between Home Office officials and Stella
Rimington, the incoming director-general of MI5, who, it has been alleged, wants
to take over the lead in anti-IRA terrorist activity on the mainland from the
police. Tam Dalyell (Lab, Linlithgow) said it raised ''very serious questions
for civil liberties''. But Mr Baker told him: ''There is no row at all.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                          February 29, 1992, Saturday

TOLL OF THE RAIL TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 374 words


THE London Bridge attack comes a year after a man was killed and 38 injured by
an IRA bomb hidden in a bin at Victoria station.

On the same day, February 18, the IRA exploded a firebomb at Paddington.

It was the first time terrorists had targeted stations since the 1970s.

The IRA was also believed to be behind a bomb which blew out a section of track
at St Albans, Hertfordshire, minutes before a crowded high-speed InterCity train
was due to pass. No-one was injured.

Attacks on trains were renewed several months later when firebombs were found
under the seats of main line and London Underground trains. Services were in
chaos as other trains were searched.

On December 16, a small bomb exploded on a side railway track near Clapham
Junction minutes after a telephone warning, claimed to be from the IRA. It said
a bomb had been planted at a main line railway station in London. There was
massive disruption to rush hour commuters as stations were closed for searches.
The estimated cost to recession-hit London was £46million.

Yesterday's explosion in a platform toilet block prompted comparisons with July,
1990, when terrorists hid a bomb in toilets at the Stock Exchange, causing
structural damage. The building had been evacuated after eight telephone
warnings by a man claiming to be from the IRA.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 19, 1992, Thursday

Argentina stunned by terrorist attack

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH NASH

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 191 words


BUENOS AIRES - Argentina, which believed it had escaped the cycle of terrorist
attacks that once afflicted it during years of dictatorship and guerrilla war,
has been dumbfounded by Tuesday's bombing of the Israeli Embassy in Buenos Aires
which killed 20 people and wounded more than 200, writes Elizabeth Nash.

''We have seen this sort of thing in Beirut but never expected it here,'' said a
volunteer worker at the rubble that was the embassy.

Argentina has the largest Jewish community in Latin America and one of the
largest Arab communities. Although anti-semitism is no stranger to Argentina,
Argentines are interpreting the attack as being as much upon their country as
Israel. Representatives of both local neo-Nazi groups and the Palestine
Liberation Organisations's Buenos Aires office were swift to deny involvement.

Some people blame President Carlos Menem, who in his desire to strengthen
Argentina's international role as an ally of the United States, sent two
well-equipped frigates to the Gulf in support of the allied naval blockade
against Saddam Hussein. It was the only Latin American country to do so.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 28, 1992

'TERRORIST STATE' LIBYA ATTACKED IN WORLD COURT

BYLINE: PETER SPINKS IN THE HAGUE AND MICHAEL SIMMONS

SECTION: FOREIGN; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 305 words


UNITED NATIONS moves intensified last night for global sanctions against Libya
for not surrendering the Lockerbie bombing suspects as US lawyers accused the
country's leader, Colonel Muammar Gadafy, of presiding over a terrorist state.

Edwin Williamson, legal adviser to the US state department, told the
International Court at The Hague that it was "the first example in the history
of the court of a state trying to use the court to undo the work of the Security
Council".

Mr Williamson described the 1988 Lockerbie incident - in which 270 people died
when a Pan Am airliner exploded over the Scottish town - as "a co-ordinated
effort by Libyan officials at the highest level", leading to "perhaps the most
horrific example of a terrorist attack against citizens of my country during the
last decade".

Libya is seeking protection from the court against international sanctions or
military force from the US and Britain, which are seeking the extradition of two
Libyan intelligence men alleged to have been involved in the bombing. The
hearing continues today.

A UN resolution on sanctions will call for an air embargo against Libya, a ban
on all arms and aircraft sales and the expulsion of most Libyan diplomats
abroad. The behind-the-scenes debate is on the timing and the duration of the
proposed embargoes, but Western members of the Security Council are confident
the resolution will be passed next week.

Meanwhile, there were signs in Cairo that the patience of Arab League mediators
with Libya was also beginning to wear thin. Egypt's foreign minister, Amr
Moussa, accused Libyan diplomats of "worsening an unstable situation" and
failing to make clear decisions.

Thomas Pickering, the US representative at the UN, accused the Libyans of
employing "smoke and mirrors" tactics of confusion.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1992 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 8, 1992, Wednesday

Japan's far right steps up terror attacks

BYLINE: From TERRY MCCARTHY in Tokyo

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS PAGE; Page 18

LENGTH: 545 words


ON MONDAY, a knife-wielding, right-wing extremist tried to storm the residence
of Kiichi Miyazawa, the Prime Minister. Three weeks ago, another right-wing
fanatic fired three shots at Shin Kanemaru, the vice-president of the ruling
Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), in what police said was a serious assassination
attempt. Right-wing groups predict terror tactics against Japan's political
leaders will continue.

As in Europe, far right-wing groups appear to be reappearing in Japan. But while
the European extremists get their message across in conventional political
campaigns, in Japan the far right still lives in the political wilderness. So
they resort to violence and bizarre shock tactics to attract public attention.

There are some 800 extreme right-wing groups in Japan, with more than 100,000
members. Many have close links with the yakuza, Japan's organised crime
syndicates. In the past they have been quietly tolerated by the police as a
counterbalance to Communist agitators. Now that Communism has almost disappeared
as a political force, the right-wing groups are looking around for a new enemy.
For some, the ''enemy within'' is the country's allegedly corrupt political
system.

Mr Kanemaru is one of the prime targets of right-wing fanatics. He has been
attacked for being too conciliatory to Communist North Korea, and is also
portrayed by extremists as the main force behind Japan's system of money
politics. Last year his house was firebombed.

''Japan's politicians are rotten,'' said Shusuke Nomura, one of Japan's leading
figures from the far right of the political spectrum. ''If the top of the apple
is rotten, it will spread to other apples, so it should be cut off.'' Mr Nomura,
a writer and publisher who describes himself as a ''nationalist'', has spent a
total of 18 years in prison - for setting fire to a politician's house in 1963
and for taking hostages in the offices of a Japanese business organisation in
1977.

Mr Nomura carefully avoided condoning violence against politicians, but said
''terrorism'' was inevitable in the current political climate. ''Terrorism will
probably increase, not only against politicians, but also against bureaucrats
and police officers.'' The Japanese people, he said, are ''spoiled like an
albatross in paradise. The nationalists should stand up and be active to wake
people up.''

Before the Second World War, political violence was rife in Japan, with prime
ministers, cabinet ministers and other officials falling to assassins' guns. But
since the US occupation, Japan has enjoyed remarkable political stability, and
the LDP has ruled without interruption for 37 years.

However, the authorities are concerned about the recent spate of attacks against
political targets, particularly as the number of illegally owned handguns in
Japan is showing a sudden increase. And Japan's never-ending string of political
scandals merely adds fuel to the right-winger's cause. ''Occasionally violence
is needed,'' said Hakobu Konishi, head of the Kokuyukai right-wing group. Mr
Konishi's animosity to Japan's mainstream politicians is so deep that in 1989 he
cut off his little finger and sent it to Noboru Takeshita, the then prime
minister, in protest at political corruption.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             April 12, 1992, Sunday

Blown to pieces;
 (1) GIRL, 15, DIES IN CITY BOMB ATTACK - AS TERROR CAMPAIGN TAKES TO THE ROADS
(2) Blast marks change of tactic for the IRA

BYLINE: Chester Stern,Kim Willsher,

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1027 words


THIS was the scene of devastation yesterday in the wake of the second of two IRA
bomb blasts in London.

The explosion blew away two sides of a B&Q store by one of the capital's busiest
road junctions, hurling DIY goods out of the building.

The bombing marked an apparent shift of the IRA's campaign to disrupt Britain's
transport system from the railways to the roads.

The estimated 100 lb bomb knocked down steel struts supporting a flyover when it
exploded early yesterday at the edge of the Staples Corner roundabout where the
M1 joins the North Circular.

Crater

It left a crater 15ft wide and 4ft deep and lifted up a stretch of the road's
surface like an earthquake.

The junction may have to be closed for months while structural damage is made
safe.

Two policemen had a narrow escape when they stopped to check the van which
contained the bomb.

Traffic PCs Bill Stewart, 46, and Simon Barnes, 41, had parked behind the white
transit van when a radio message was flashed to them warning that there was a
bomb at the roundabout.

They sped off and were halting traffic only 200 yards away when the van blew up.

The men suffered back injuries in the blast.

A week ago police installed a traffic-monitoring camera above the junction and
this may have recorded the van's arrival.

Meanwhile, Scotland Yard revealed that two of the three people killed in the
bomb blast in the City on Friday evening were a man in his early 20s and
15-year-old Daniella Carter, whose eight-year-old sister Christina underwent
surgery to remove glass from her face.

The girls were with their father who was delivering a car to the Baltic
Exchange.

Daniella had stepped on to the pavement before transferring to a car driven by a
family friend when the bomb went off.

Yesterday surgeons at Guy's Hospital fought to save the sight of Christina's
friend Sara Saddoo, 7, who was with the family and was critically injured.

Police are studying the possibility that the bomb, which injured 91, was a
'come-on' designed to trap dozens of officers as they converged on the scene.

Some detectives believe that the message which sent them racing to the Stock
Exchange half a mile from the explosion outside the Baltic Exchange was misheard
on the telephone, inadvertently saving the lives of police officers.

Track

Last night RUC Special Branch detectives were drawing up a strategy with
Scotland Yard in a bid to track down the bombers before they strike again.

RUC chiefs believe the latest onslaught had originally been planned for the
run-up to polling day, but the IRA vetoed the blitz until the election results.

A senior security force in Belfast said: 'Gerry Adams's defeat and the Tory
victory were the green light for the bombing.'

At St Bartholomew's Hospital, two victims of the blast were still in intensive
care yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC:  (1) DESTRUCTION: The B&Q store which was wrecked in the explosion at
one of London's busiest road junctions (2) DAMAGE: A building hit by the bomb
blast in the City

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 12, 1992, Sunday

CITY STANDS FIRM AFTER BOMB ATTACK - TERROR EXPERT

BYLINE:  Grania Langdon Down, Press Association crime corresponent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 367 words


The devastation caused by the bomb in London's economic heartland will not
damage the prestige of the City as the leading international financial centre, a
counter-terrorist expert said today.  Professor Paul Wilkinson, director of the
Research Institute for the Study of Conflict and Terrorism, said the IRA were
suffering "sheer delusions of grandeur" if they thought they could bring the
City to its knees.  Northern Ireland, particularly Belfast, had withstood 20
years of concentrated attacks on its economic structure, he said.  And he added
that terrorists groups in Europe had caused similar damage in cities such as
Paris and Bonn without businesses pulling out.  Prof Wilkinson, head of the
department of international relations at St Andrews University, said the IRA
took advantage of a free society and the impossibility of turning an area like
the City into a totally secure zone.  "Most people will recognise what happened
as a temporary disruption, although obviously with huge inconvenience and high
costs, but it is not going to be a significant factor in the functioning of
national or international economies," he said.  One way of maintaining business
confidence and of proving the Government's determination not to allow the
terrorists any long-term success would be to offer a compensation scheme similar
to the one operating in Northern Ireland.  A major task ahead for the
anti-terrorist squad and intelligence agencies is to establish the source and
supply route of the explosive used in the bombings.  Detectives will be hoping
that appeals to trace the two vans used in the attacks will lead to a
breakthrough. Anti-terrorist sources believe the IRA units are made up people
deeply buried into mainstream life on the mainland with key figures brought in
and out quickly for major operations.  One task facing the new Government and
newly-appointed Home Secretary Kenneth Clarke will be to consider a review of
counter-terrorist intelligence gathering which could mean MI5 becoming the lead
agency.  Prof Wilkinson said the key targets should be the IRA godfathers to
take the "heart out of the beast" not just catching those pulling the triggers
or planting the bombs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 14, 1992, Tuesday

Soldier wounded in 'terror' attack

BYLINE: By TERRY KIRBY

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 336 words


A SOLDIER working at an Army careers office in Derby was shot and critically
wounded by three men last night, writes Terry Kirby. Anti-terrorist branch
sources said that they believed the IRA was responsible.

The 43-year-old serviceman, who is married with children, left the office soon
after 4.30pm to walk to his red Volkswagen Jetta parked about 150 yards away.

He was about 30 yards from the car when two men shot him at close range through
the right temple with a pistol. He was found lying face down in a car park and
taken to Derbyshire Royal Infirmary, where his condition was described last
night as critical.

The attackers escaped in a gold-coloured Ford Granada.

The three men were described as white and in their mid-teens to early twenties.
One was about 5ft 10in tall, slim and wearing a dark- coloured baseball hat and
dark sweatshirt and trousers.

The second man was of a similar height and slightly heavier build. He was
wearing a long- sleeved blue top and a baseball cap and had a moustache.

The third suspect had stubble and was wearing a baseball cap.

Derbyshire's assistant chief constable, Bob Wood, who is leading the
investigation, said: ''It was a determined and deliberate act to commit murder.
It was very well- planned and very well-organised and clearly aimed at one
individual.''

The soldier, who was in civilian clothes, is expected to be named today.

The attack is the first in the current IRA mainland campaign since the attempted
murder of Air Chief Marshall Sir Peter Terry, the former governor general of
Gibraltar, at his home in Staffordshire in September 1990.

The shooting, three days after two huge bombs exploded in London, will be seen
by counter-terrorism officers as an attempt by the IRA to intensify the campaign
which has recently concentrated on small-scale incendiary or bomb attacks,
mainly on commercial interests.

Two years ago a bomb caused extensive damage but no injuries at the Army careers
office in Derby.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 17, 1992, Friday

Aid workers terrorised by Iraqi attacks

BYLINE: From HUGH POPE in Ankara

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 14

LENGTH: 769 words


IRAQI agents are orchestrating a campaign of car-bomb and grenade attacks to
terrorise and force out the few remaining aid agencies helping the Kurds of
northern Iraq, Kurdish parties and diplomats say.

Several incidents of harassment, culminating with the discovery of a bomb under
a vehicle belonging to a British charity working with the Kurds, has now
prompted that organisation to withdraw several of its expatriate staff.

''These are Iraqi attacks. They are trying to drive the aid agencies out, and
the policy is working,'' said Serchil Qazzaz, representative in Turkey of the
Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK). ''Foreign aid workers are afraid to leave
their homes and I don't blame them.''

Incidents in the past month include gunfire against a United Nations building,
the blowing up of a UN vehicle, a grenade tossed over a garden wall that badly
injured two Austrian UN guards and a car-bomb which killed seven Kurds but was
aimed at the French First Lady, Danielle Mitterrand.

Diplomats say only three large aid agencies remain - Save The Children, Care
International and Caritas. ''There is now virtually no major relief effort in
northern Iraq,'' said one Western diplomat. ''Foreign funding is drying up. The
Kurds can drift on through the summer if there is no new fighting and
displacement. But they are pulling themselves up by their own bootstraps.''

This reality is a partial victory for Baghdad's campaign against the
international aid effort for the Kurds since their dramatic exodus to the
mountains of Turkey and Iran in April of last year. It also aims to undermine
the democratically elected Kurdish ''executive authority'' which, along with
Kurdish guerrilla groups, now forms a quasi-independent government for at least
3 million Kurds.

Since the beginning, Iraq, diplomats and aid agencies have fought over the
legitimacy of the UN operation and the six-month Memoranda of Understandings
that provided a legal umbrella for relief work.

Even under these agreements Baghdad would delay or refuse visas for some relief
workers. When US soldiers ran the Kurdish enclave, Iraqi officials were
sometimes forced to issue them at gunpoint. But while the allied Provide Comfort
force may still rule northern Iraqi airspace, they are only nominally present on
the ground. ''There have been virtually no visas issued for two months,'' said
Joan Anderson of Save The Children. ''We're committed to continuing our
programme, but we are trying to draw the attention of the UN to lack of
protection.''

Diplomats say there is no sign of Baghdad signing an extension to the
memorandum, part of its struggle against the United Nations and the allied
powers. ''There's a trial of strength going on. The UN is not going to move. I
think it's likely that we see a few shots fired,'' said one European envoy in
Ankara.

Private aid workers used to complain that the former main UN co-ordinating
agency, the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, kept
deferring to Baghdad to retain its legitimacy. But diplomats say this deference
has turned into paralysis under the UNHCR's replacement, Unicef.

What the UNHCR did accomplish in northern Iraq, especially in last summer's
winterisation project, was often achieved by buying supplies in Turkey and
driving them by road over the border. Since October, the Turkish route has
become even more important because of the blockade imposed on the Kurds by
Baghdad, multiplying the effect of existing UN sanctions on the whole of Iraq.

Bernard Kouchner, France's Minister for Health and Humanitarian Affairs,
suggested building on the trans-border option to create a separate framework via
Turkey for UN and international aid to the Kurds. But this requires political
recognition of Kurdish separateness, something even the French Foreign Ministry,
let alone Turkey, is not ready to contemplate.

For the time being, the only concession is tolerance by all sides of up to 1,000
lorries a day between Turkey and Iraq. Turkish lorry drivers get work, Iraq
sells up to 20,000 barrels of smuggled diesel oil per day and the Kurdish
''executive authority'' earns $ 3m (pounds 1.5m) a month of transit taxes.

Mr Qazzaz of the PUK bought four lorries of cigarette papers and filters that
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein shifted to the north at the start of the Gulf
war. ''Turkey will not let them through. We could have made $ 30-40m out of them
to pay our people,'' he said. ''There doesn't seem much the world can do against
Iraq. But our people would prefer to starve than go back to Saddam.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             July 31, 1992, Friday

'WALTER MITTY PRIEST' IN TERROR SEX ATTACK

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 366 words


A bogus priest committed a terrifying sex attack on a mother-of-four as he
behaved like "Walter Mitty gone mad", a court heard today.  John Cronin
celebrated mass in Edinburgh's Catholic cathedral and sparked a massive police
search for an escaped IRA terrorist after he claimed to have spotted him,
Edinburgh High Court was told.  And he pretended he was a Catholic clergyman in
order to get into a woman's home and subject her to a terrifying sex attack,
only days after his release on bail.  Cronin, formerly of Tranent, Lothian,
admitted that on May 2 he fraudulently celebrated mass, stole a purse and £8
from a woman in the cathedral, and deprived the public of the service of the
police.  He admitted that on May 6 he attempted to pervert the course of
justice, and on May 21 fraudulently entered a woman's home, sexually assaulted
her and robbed her of £40 and a jacket. He also admitted breaching bail.  The
court heard that he had convinced church elders at St Mary's Cathedral in
Broughton Street, Edinburgh, that he was an Irish priest holidaying in the city,
and that they had allowed him to celebrate mass.  Later the same day he
approached police telling them he was a priest and that he had just seen one of
his parishioners, Nessan Quinlivan, an IRA terrorist on the run from Brixton
prison.  Cronin refused to give his name, claiming he feared reprisals, but a
large-scale police hunt was launched and several people detained. He later
pretended he was Father Sean Mulligan of Co Cork, to avoid prosecution.  Iain
Peebles, prosecuting, said the woman Cronin attacked was politically active and
he had told her he wanted to donate money to her cause.  But when he was in her
home he repeatedly struck her on the head and body with a poker before
indecently assaulting her.  Defence counsel Derek Ogg said: "There are no words
in the rational world to mitigate this outrageous conduct, which must be one of
the most distressful and terrorising assaults that can be imagined." He added
that Cronin was "a Walter Mitty out of control and has been since the age of
five. This is a Walter Mitty gone mad." Sentence was adjourned for three weeks
for psychiatric reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            August 6, 1992, Thursday

TEACHERS' TERROR IN CHECKPOINT MORTAR ATTACK

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 301 words


Terrified teachers dived for cover during a mortar bomb attack on workers
building a huge security checkpoint near the Irish border today.  Staff ducked
as the IRA fired six mortars over a Roman Catholic primary school outside Newry,
Co Down.  No one was hurt in the incident but the parish priest, Father Henry
Devlin, chairman of the board of governors, who was at his desk inside the
building, said: "It was like an atomic bomb." The school at Cloghoge, just off
the main Belfast-Dublin Road and only yards from the police and military
roadblock, is closed for the summer holidays.  Parents have threatened to keep
their children away once the new term begins because of fears for their safety,
and security chiefs have refused to relocate the checkpoint.  Sixteen teachers
were holding an emergency meeting at the school to discuss the controversy when
the IRA opened up from a van parked nearby.  Six missiles were fired over the
school at the squads of workers who are involved in massive construction work at
a hillside overlooking the main cross-border road. Three mortars failed to
explode.  An elderly couple were treated for shock.  Some of the staff were
helped away by troops.  Pressure on Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick
Mayhew to have the checkpoint moved, is now expected to intensify. The
checkpoint will replace one bombed earlier this year when a soldier was killed.
Fr Devlin, who has had talks with Sir Patrick about the checkpoint, said: "If
the children had been here there would have been blind panic and total
pandemonium. The teachers would have found it very difficult to handle such a
situation ... a cramped situation with no exit and no drill to get out.  "They
would be sitting there waiting to die. This is a very dangerous situation which
must be reviewed."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                           September 7, 1992, Monday

BOMB-PROOF BINS MAY FOIL TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Roger Bray

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 267 words


NEW light-weight materials which may protect passenger jets against
Lockerbie-style bomb blasts are being tested by a British company.

Meggitt Composites has a bin which has already contained two 2lb bomb blasts
without suffering appreciable damage on display at the Farnborough Air Show.

But the West Midlands-based company fears airlines will not want to spend money
on new luggage containers unless they are made mandatory by international
aviation authorities.

The bins, made of glass and resin, will be sold to organisations such as British
Rail, the Post Office and airports, which need to isolate small explosive
devices until experts arrive to disarm them.

But for the future, it is working on the materials to harden airline containers
or jet hulls against terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            November 1, 1992, Sunday

'TERRORIST' FIREBOMB ATTACK ON WELSH TAX OFFICE

BYLINE:  Brendan Berry, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words


Bomb disposal experts tonight made safe a firebomb package planted near
Government tax offices in Wales - the fourth in a series of arson incidents
being linked to extremists in the Principality.  Dyfed-Powys Chief Constable Ray
White said the incident was being treated as an "act of terrorism".  The device
was near a childrens' play area, he added.  "In the location where it was found,
it is highly likely that members of the public, including children, could have
been killed or seriously injured," said Mr White.  Police said the device was
discovered after an anonymous call to the Samaritans organisation sparked a
major search of all Government buildings in the market town of Carmarthen,
Dyfed, west Wales.  Earlier today detectives in north Wales were called to the
scenes of three fires in which two unoccupied houses were extensively damaged,
while an incendiary device caused minor smoke damage to a social security office
in Llangefni, Anglesey.  Wolverhampton social services department owns one of
the houses - at Penrhos, near Pwllheli, Powys - which was badly damaged by the
fire-raisers.  In summer months it is regularly used to give teenagers,
pensioners or the disabled a holiday break.  A stone-built property at Bala,
Gwynedd was extensively damaged at about the same time, suggesting a
co-ordinated attack.  But villagers said the house was owned by a Welshman
living nearby and had never been used as a holiday home.  Officers from the
North Wales and Dyfed-Powys forces are now liaising on an intensive
investigation, amid concern that extremists' arson attacks may have resumed
after a lull of nearly a year. A North Wales police spokesman said: "We have not
ruled out the possibility of the incidents being linked to the Welsh arson
campaign." Mr White said: "If this is to be the start of a series of highly
dangerous offences, it will be necessary for Dyfed-Powys police to take officers
from important investigations dealing with burglaries and child abuse cases to
investigate such acts of terrorism."
    Detectives, fire chiefs and forensic experts are also investigating another
possible arson attack, at an empty house on a remote road in the southern part
of Gwynedd.  It is believed the house - Pant-Y-Cyneddau - is a holiday home on a
stretch of road known as the Happy Valley between Pennal and Tywyn.

Detectives investigating the three suspicious fires were tonight looking at a
possible fourth arson attack, at an empty house on a remote road in the southern
part of Gwynedd, mid-Wales.  It is believed the house - Pant-Y-Cyneddau - is a
holiday home on a stretch of road known as the Happy Valley between Pennal and
Tywyn.  Fire chiefs and forensic experts have been called to the property, which
is believed to have been gutted in the fire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            November 6, 1992, Friday

TERROR GROUP VOWS REVENGE ATTACKS

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 217 words


Loyalist paramilitaries today threatened a new outbreak of bloodshed in
republican areas of Northern Ireland.  The Ulster Freedom Fighters said the
offensive would be in revenge for IRA attacks on Protestant communities. Bangor,
Co Down, Glengormley, Co Antrim, and a housing estate in south Belfast have all
been blasted by huge IRA bombs.  The UFF warned retaliatory action, similar to a
shooting which left five Catholics dead in an attack on a Belfast betting shop
last February, would begin at midnight tonight.  It said: "To counteract these
sectarian bombings we will redirect our campaign against the republican
community as a whole. Response similar to Teebane will be the consequence and
the IRA will have to bear that responsibility." The Teebane outrage saw the IRA
bomb a workers' bus, killing eight Protestants near Cookstown, Co Tyrone, in
January. Loyalists retaliated with the gun attack on a bookmaker's office at
Ormeau Road, Belfast.  Today's warning came just 48 hours after a Catholic was
shot dead by UFF gunmen in Belfast.  Meanwhile, a republican splinter group torn
apart by a savage feud over drugs money has agreed to disband.  The Irish
People's Liberation Organisation decision came after the IRA shot one of its
Belfast leaders and wounded up to 20 other members.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 16, 1992

Security guards face gunman as second terrorist attack in London fails Canary
Wharf bomb plot foiled

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 443 words


SECURITY guards last night thwarted an attempt to bomb Britain's biggest
building.

In what was the second bomb plot to go wrong in London at the weekend, they
challenged two men, one armed, who fled from a transit van packed with
explosives at the 800ft Canada Tower on Canary Wharf, in Docklands.

The men escaped in another van, found later by police two miles away in Bethnal
Green, east London.

Police evacuated a large area of the Isle of Dogs after bomb squad officers used
a robot to blow the doors off the first van to investigate. A large explosive
device was found inside.

The guards at Canary Wharf had spotted the blue transit van as it pulled up at
about 8pm under the railway station. When they went to investigate two men got
out, and one, his face covered, produced a gun. No shots were fired.

Buildings nearby were evacuated, including the offices of the Daily Telegraph,
and roads were sealed off.

A hunt was already under way in London for a terrorist bomber on the run
following the shooting of a police officer, and a similar incident with a lorry.

Detectives believe a major IRA bomb attack was thwarted when two uniformed
officers stopped the lorry carrying a "vast" quantity of explosives and other
bomb-making equipment on Saturday.

One of the officers, PC Ray Hall, was injured when he was shot in the head and
back by the two terrorists in the lorry as they tried to escape on foot.

A man was yesterday being held at Paddington Green police station under the
provisions of the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

In Northern Ireland the outlawed Ulster Freedom Fighters have vowed more
terrorist attacks after one of the worst periods of violence this year.

Three civilians and a police officer were killed over the weekend, and the
centre of Coleraine devastated by an IRA bomb.

Among the victims was Mr John Lovett, a 72-year-old Second World War veteran,
one of three men murdered in a UFF gun and grenade attack on a bookmaker's shop.

Sir Hugh Annesley, Northern Ireland's Chief Constable, will meet other police
and Army chiefs this morning.

The UFF, regarded as the terrorist wing of the Protestant Ulster Defence
Association, says it will counter IRA attacks and claimed the murders at the
betting shop were in retaliation for the IRA bomb in Coleraine.

One person was critically ill and another said to be in a serious condition,
among 12 people, including two Protestants, wounded at James Murray's betting
shop in the Oldpark Road district of North Belfast.

A gunman fired more than 40 shots and then another man flung a grenade among the
dead and wounded.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                          November 18, 1992, Wednesday

KIWI COACH TO QUIT TOUR OVER TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 49

LENGTH: 227 words


NEW ZEALAND'S cricket coach Warren Lees said last night that he would return
home from Sri Lanka, despite efforts to salvage an eight-match tour after
Monday's bomb explosion outside the team's hotel.

The first match of the tour has been cancelled and Lees said: 'I am going home.
I don't know about the rest of the team but nothing will change my mind. To have
the guys walk out there and see the carnage among so many people was
horrendous.'

Five people, including a naval commander, died in the explosion.

New Zealand Cricket chairman Peter McDermott has arrived in Colombo to try to
save the tour. If he fails, Pakistan could send a team to Sri Lanka instead.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                          November 19, 1992, Thursday

Attack in Hyde Park sparks terrorist scare

BYLINE: Mark Gould

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 814 words


TIGHT security was being maintained around prestige buildings in London today
after a terrorist scare in which a police sergeant was pistol-whipped when he
stopped two suspicious men on a motorcycle.

The traffic officer was attacked as he approached the men riding a
scrambler-style machine without lights in Hyde Park.

Mindful of the many potential targets in the area - including barracks and
luxury hotels, Sergeant Philip Thomas, 37, approached the men as they rode into
the Lido car park.

One of them then produced a pistol, aimed it at him and hit him repeatedly round
the head.

As they rode off he radioed for help and was taken to St Mary's Hospital,
Paddington. He and later released.

The bike was found nearly two hours later in the Marble Arch area, but as the
search continued for the attackers another alert was sparked when police became
suspicious of a van parked near the spot where the policeman was attacked.

The area was sealed off and the vehicle searched, but nothing suspicious was
found.

Chief Inspector Peter Loughborough of Harrow Road police, speaking about the
officer who was attacked, said: 'He was drifting in and out of consciousness but
managed to radio for help.

'We searched for the officer for some time before we found him. It took about 10
minutes, and when we found him we discovered a suspect vehicle nearby.'

Hyde Park was sealed off and police went on a major security alert while the van
was cleared by explosives officers.

Hundreds of people were unable to reach their cars parked within the perimeter
fence until the park was reopened at about 11pm.

Police said they were keeping an open mind about the incident.

'There is no specific indication that the IRA was involved but we have to treat
any incident involving firearms with a great deal of caution,' Mr Loughborough
said.

Police are calling for anyone who witnessed the incident to contact them.

The alert came on the eve of the appearance in court today of a man held after
the seizure of a lorryload of explosives in Stoke Newington last Saturday.

Umemployed Patrick Kelly, 40, of no fixed address, is to appear at Arbour Square
Court in East London charged with attempting to murder Pc Ray Hall - who was
shot during the incident.

Kelly is also accused of conspiracy to cause an explosion and possessing an
explosive substance.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Pistol-whipped: Sergeant Philip Thomas leaves hospital after treatment

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                           November 20, 1992, Friday

Teacher dies in terror attack on a country pub

BYLINE: Robert Rodwell

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 800 words


A SCHOOLTEACHER who died in a hail of automatic gunfire when terrorists struck
at a remote country pub in the Mountains of Mourne last night was a victim of
the outlawed Ulster Volunteer Force, the Protestant group admitted today.

In the second such attack on predominantly Catholic premises in six days,
bachelor Peter McCormack, 42, was hit in the back and fell dead, while three of
the six other people in the bar at the time were injured.

One of them, a youth of 18, was in a serious condition. The other two men aged
33 and 69, were said to be satisfactory in hospital today.

Mr McCormack was sitting at the bar of the 300-year-old Thierafurth Inn near the
Catholic mountain village of Kilcoo when the killers struck.

The loyalist group named its intended victim in its statement admitting
responsibility. That man was not Mr McCormack. The attack was wholly
indiscriminate.

Two masked gunmen opened up inside the bar with a shotgun and an automatic
weapon in an attack which lasted only a few seconds.

Mr McCormack's death was the latest twist in Ulster's spiral of violence which,
since Saturday, has seen six people killed as rival paramilitary groups again
raise the tempo of their war.

It came only four hours after the IRA shot dead a 27-year-old part-time soldier
as he sat in his car with his three-year-old son, waiting to collect his wife
from work outside Portadown, County Armagh.

Just over a year ago the RUC and Army intercepted three armed loyalists as they
were en route to attack the Thierafurth Inn, so last night's atrocity was merely
a delayed outrage.

Mr McCormack lived with his parents and a sister and helped out on the family
farm when not supply teaching at primary schools in South Down.

Father Peter McNeill, parish priest of neighbouring Clonduff, spoke of a 'total
disbelief' that violence had come to a quiet country area.

'We can't understand. People round here are farmers and they wouldn't do it to
an animal,' he said.

The IRA's Portadown victim died outside the chicken factory where his wife
worked. Lance Corporal Ian Warnock, 27, of the Royal Irish Regiment, lived in
the town.

His killers had clearly identified his routine of driving his car, with son Mark
strapped in a child's seat in the back, to collect his wife, Betty.

From a taxi hijacked on the nearby Catholic Kilwilkie estate, IRA gunmen fired
on Mr Warnock's car, then roared away.

Their victim managed to return fire with his personal protection pistol, but it
was not known whether he hit his attackers, and he died in minutes.  His son was
unhurt, but badly shocked.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 24, 1992, Tuesday

GUN BATTLE AS TERROR ATTACK FOILED

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 219 words


Police and troops were involved in a fierce gun battle with terrorists planning
to attack an off-duty soldier near the Irish border today.  About 70 shots were
fired in a ferocious exchange three miles from Castlederg, County Tyrone. A
massive search on both sides of the border was launched for the gunmen, who may
have fled over the border into County Donegal.  At least two terrorists were
hiding outside the home of a member of the Royal Irish Regiment when they were
confronted by armed RUC officers and troops.  It is understood the gunmen were
waiting for the soldier to emerge from his house and planned to shoot him.  But
they had to make a run for it and in the gun battle that followed no police
officer or soldier was hurt. It is not clear whether any of the terrorists were
injured.  Police in County Donegal were alerted and police and troop
reinforcements were called in on the northern side to help in the search,
covering an area of six square kilometres between Castlederg and the border.
Farmers were asked to help by checking outbuildings.

This afternoon three men believed to be from Northern Ireland but with addresses
in County Donegal were arrested in a house close to the border.  They are being
questioned at Letterkenny Garda Station under the Offences Against the State
Act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 9, 1992, Wednesday

Terrorist attack brings fear of ruin to the City

BYLINE: By PAUL DURMAN

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 489 words


(First Edition)

THE GOVERNMENT'S dispute with the insurance industry over who picks up the bill
for terrorism is a direct result of the IRA bomb which destroyed the Baltic
Exchange in the City. Including re-building work and business interruption
claims, the blast will cost the insurers an estimated pounds 750m.

Until this year, insurance against terrorist attack was regarded as a minor and
relatively trivial part of the cover which insurers provide. Yet the cost of
this one incident is a third of the pounds 2bn or so of premiums which industry
pays each year for protection against all other forms of risk.

Faced with this scale of potential loss, the insurers - already weakened by
years of heavy losses - say they cannot afford to offer substantial amounts of
cover against terrorist attacks. Together with the Confederation of British
Industry, the insurers are calling on the Government to help, perhaps by
agreeing to bear all claims above a certain level.

Without insurance, major companies will be left at the mercy of the IRA. The
cost of replacing a multi-million pound factory or office block could threaten
to break the largest companies.

John Parry, chairman of the British Property Federation and managing director of
the property company Hammerson, said: ''It could drive even the biggest
businesses under. One does not want to make this a win for terrorism, none of us
do. But the right and proper scheme is an agreement between government and
industry, with the Government acting as reinsurer of last resort.''

The bulk of the costs of the Baltic Exchange bomb in April have fallen on the
reinsurance companies, such as Munich Re, who insure the insurers. For example,
although Commercial Union's London headquarters was destroyed, its exposure was
capped at a relatively modest pounds 15m.

The reinsurers feel they are unable to quantify the risk of insuring against
terrorist attack and are refusing to renew the cover they offer to insurance
companies beyond the end of this month. Without this protection, the insurers
say they will be forced to limit cover against terrorist attack to a few million
pounds.

In the early months of next year, insurers will continue to be exposed to bomb
attacks on their corporate customers even though they are unable to renew their
own reinsurance cover. Mr Parry said this raised the question of whether
insurers would be sufficiently solvent to pay any claims.

After several months of lobbying Cabinet ministers, the Association of British
Insurers last week wrote to John Major to warn the Prime Minister of the grave
threat which terrorism poses to the British economy.

Michael Heseltine, the President of the Board of Trade, would like the insurers
to find a commercial solution. The compensation scheme which the Government
provides in Northern Ireland would be hugely more expensive on the mainland,
particularly in London.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1992 Independent Print Ltd

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 12, 1992

Scottish Amicable says terrorist attacks could bankrupt tenants

BYLINE: Andrew Wilson

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 455 words


SCOTTISH Amicable has made a dire warning that office block and other tenants
could face bankruptcy as a a result of terrorist action after December 31. The
life company said yesterday that insurance cover against terrorist damage will
be unobtainable from January 1 and under normal commercial leases, risks which
are not insured against fall directly upon the tenant.

It has about £1200m of property of which around £400m is in Central London.
That area has borne the vast proportion of terrorist damage caused so far
totalling about £1000m of which the St Mary Axe bombing cost some £800m.  There
has also been severe damage in Manchester and small incidents in Blackpool.

Property director David Hunter said yesterday that Scottish Amicable's insurer
General Accident had been unable to find reinsurance cover anywhere.

So, tenants could find that they would have to meet the full cost of repairing,
say, a £20m building. This would include -- apart from the insurance industry
-wide blanket protection of £100,000 per class of risk -- building contents,
machinery and so on up to an aggregate total of £500,000. Few could afford that
while the knock-on effect to some highly geared property holding companies would
be more than sufficient to tip them over the edge.

While the tenant would be wholly responsible for any loss in the first instance,
any receivership would have an impact on life company policy holders.

The Government position so far is that making good damage is a business problem
although President of the Board of Trade Michael Heseltine has said that it
would look at the matter closely. However, a large proportion of policies are
due for renewal in just over a fortnight's time and the insurance industry
believes that action has to be taken immediately -- Mr Hunter says in the next
couple of working days.

And he is asking all tenants to put as much pressure as they can on both MPs and
Government Ministers.

The Association of British Insurers has written to the Prime Minister saying
that it is not a commercial problem but a political one. It is hoping for a
reponse immediately after the Edinburgh Summit ends.

An ABI spokesman said that the financial sector simply does not have the
capacity to cover the risk and instead the Government should extend to the
mainland the arrangements that it has had in Northern Ireland for the last 20
years. It has so far paid out £600m. For the financial sector it is not a case
of "can pay, won't pay" but can't pay, won't pay."

Scottish Amicable tenants may be more at risk than most in that renewals all
occur at once. However, many other landlords also have a high proportion of
their renewals on that date.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1992 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           December 13, 1992, Sunday

TERRORISTS ATTACK HIGH SECURITY JAIL

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 833 words


Protestant paramilitaries attacked the top security Crumlin Road jail in Belfast
with a missile tonight.  It damaged the roof of A wing where suspected
Republican and Loyalist paramilitaries are held on remand. Nobody was hurt.  All
prisoners inside the jail, which was visited last week by the Northern Ireland
Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew, were immediately ordered back to their cells.  The
so-called Loyalist Military Command, a protestant paramilitary umbrella group,
said they were responsible. It was believed a gang hijacked a taxi in the nearby
Shanlin area, fired the missile, and then disappeared.  In a statement they said
they carried out the attack on 47 republicans in A3 dining hall in revenge for
the murders of the two loyalist prisoners in November last year.  Just over a
year ago, two remand prisoners were killed when an IRA bomb exploded inside a
prison canteen.  The mother of one of the republican remand prisoners at the
jail claimed the loyalists came dangerously close to hitting their target.  Mrs
Margaret Hillick said her son would have been in the dining hall at the time the
missile was fired.  She went to the jail immediately after the attack to inquire
about his safety but said a governor refused to meet her.  She said: "My son
would have been in the dining hall around that time. They (the loyalists) had
good information. They knew republicans would have been in the hall. They got
inside information from someone." About a mile away in the republican New Lodge
district up to 20 shots were fired into the back of a house at Hillman Street,
no one was injured.  Police also revealed tonight that the IRA used an
improvised flame thrower to attack an army look-out post in Crossmaglen, South
Armagh.  The post was sprayed with a highly-flammable mixture from a slurry tank
which was pulled into position by a tractor. The top part of the post was badly
damaged in the attack on Saturday night but nobody was hurt.  A former
republican prisoner who died today after being shot by loyalist paramilitaries
in County Antrim was on a loyalist death list, it was revealed tonight.  Malachy
Carey, 36, was the fifth member of Sinn Fein to be murdered by the outlawed
Ulster Freedom Fighters in the last 18 months.  Police said a man is being
questioned about the killing.  Mr Carey, from Loughguille, was hit twice in
nearby Ballymoney as he waited for his girlfriend, a hairdresser, to leave work
on Saturday night.  Police revealed that relatives of the murdered man were
warned three years ago that protestant paramilitaries may have his personal
details.  It was believed this referred to missing security force documents.  Mr
Carey was a Sinn Fein candidate in the last Northern Ireland local government
elections three years ago.  He once served a lengthy prison sentence for
terrorist related offences and after his release had spent some time living in
the republic.  A loyalist murder squad apparently based in north Antrim has been
responsible for a series of killings of Sinn Fein members and others linked to
the organisation.  A 36-year-old man whose legs were amputated following an IRA
punishment shooting in Londonderry last Tuesday night has died in hospital.
Ever since the shooting, John Collett had been fighting for his life in
Altnagelvin Hospital. He had been shot in both legs by IRA gunmen who burst into
his home in the Shantallow Estate last Tuesday.

In the Crumlin Road attack, a Russian-made RPG7 rocket ricocheted off a
perimeter wall and blasted a 2ft hole in the roof of A wing close to a
second-floor canteen where about 20 Republican remand prisoners were eating.
According to security sources, there could have been casualties had the missile
not been deflected by concrete coping on the top of the outside wall.

It emerged tonight that Mr Carey's name was on a loyalist death list.  Police
revealed that relatives of the murdered man were warned three years ago that
protestant paramilitaries may have his personal details.  It was believed this
referred to missing security force documents.  At the time Mr Carey was living
in Dublin but police said a member of his family was told of the threat and
advised to tell him to review his personal security.  Police also revealed
tonight that the IRA used an improvised flame thrower to attack an army look-out
post in Crossmaglen, South Armagh.  The post was sprayed with a highly-flammable
mixture from a slurry tank which was pulled into position by a tractor. The top
part of the post was badly damaged in the attack on Saturday night but nobody
was hurt.

The so-called Loyalist Military Command, a protestant paramilitary umbrella
group, said they were involved. It was believed a gang hijacked a taxi in the
nearby Shanlin area, fired the missile, and then disappeared.  In a statement
issued an hour later they said they carried out an attack on 47 republicans in
A3 dining hall in revenge for the murders of the two loyalist prisoners in
November last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           December 14, 1992, Monday

TERRORISTS ATTACK HIGH SECURITY JAIL

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 202 words


Protestant paramilitaries have staged a missile attack on the top security
Crumlin Road jail in Belfast.  A 2ft hole was blasted in the roof close to a
second-floor canteen in A wing - where suspected republican paramilitaries being
held on remand were eating - but no-one was hurt in last night's attack. The
so-called Loyalist Military Command, a protestant paramilitary umbrella group,
said they were responsible. It was believed a gang hijacked a taxi in a nearby
street, fired the Russian-made RPG7 missile, and then disappeared.  In a
statement they said they carried out the attack in revenge for the deaths of two
loyalist prisoners killed by an IRA bomb in a canteen in a different part of the
prison in November last year.  About a mile away from the jail, in the
republican New Lodge district, up to 20 shots were fired into the back of a
house at Hillman Street last night. Again, no-one was injured.

Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew is to discuss the rocket attack with RUC
Chief Constable Sir Hugh Annseley.  Speaking in Londonderry, Sir Patrick, who
visited the prison last week, ruled out segregation of loyalist and republican
prisoners because he said it was "a bad principle".

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1992 The Press Association Limited

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            February 5, 1993, Friday

FIRMS WARNED OF TERROR ATTACK RISK

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 203 words


Around a dozen businesses in the Ardoyne area of north Belfast have been warned
by police that they could face attack by loyalist terrorists.  The warning comes
at a time of much increased activity by the Ulster Volunteer Force and Ulster
Freedom Fighters which have been responsible for the bulk of the nine murders in
Northern Ireland so far this year - several of which were in north Belfast.
Among those contacted in the largely Catholic area was the local depot of
Belfast's bus company Citybus where some 190 people are employed.  Management at
Citybus was told the safety of employees at the Ardoyne depot could be at risk
and today managers and union representatives met to discuss the situation.  A
company spokesman said the nature of the threat was not specified by police but
added that security arrangements for both staff and customers was constantly
under review.  Sinn Fein Belfast Councillor Joe Austin said that since Tuesday
around a dozen businesses along the Crumlin Road at Ardoyne had been visited by
police and warned of a potential attack by loyalist paramilitaries.  The RUC
confirmed some businesses in the area had been given security advice but it
would give no further details.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 13, 1993, Saturday

Clarke attacks Blair over Terrorism Act

BYLINE: By COLIN BROWN, Political Correspondent

SECTION: POLITICS & POLICY PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 368 words


LABOUR last night accused Kenneth Clarke of being ''rattled'' after the Home
Secretary devoted part of a law-and-order speech at a Conservative conference to
a bitter attack on Tony Blair, his Labour shadow.

Underlining Tory concern at Mr Blair's confidence on the law- and-order
portfolio, Mr Clarke warned people not to trust the ''new mood music'' from
Labour on crime.

''I wonder whether the police much trust a shadow Home Secretary of a party
which has such an appalling record on law and order and support for our police
forces,'' Mr Clarke told the Conservative western area conference in
Weston-super-Mare.

''I accept that Labour abhor terrorist violence as much as we do. Their problem
is that they don't know how to tackle it properly.''

Mr Clarke said the public was ''genuinely mystified'' about the changes Mr Blair
proposed to the Prevention of Terrorism Act, which Labour voted against, when it
was renewed on Wednesday in the Commons.

Mr Blair had called for a judge, rather than the Home Secretary, to review
police requests for terrorist suspects to be held for more than four days, and
for exclusion orders to be scrapped.

''What were they trying to get out of it? More civil rights for potential
terrorists? Their message was not so much 'troops out' as 'terrorists in','' Mr
Clarke said.

Outlining plans for tougher action on juvenile crime, the Home Secretary
criticised Mr Blair for refusing to support his proposal to deal with persistent
young offenders by providing custodial powers for the courts to lock up 12 to
15- year-olds in new training centres.

A Labour spokesman responded by saying: ''Mr Clarke is obviously rattled by Mr
Blair's performance.''

Mr Blair, who is calling for more local authority secure places, last night
accused the Government of providing resources for only three additional places,
in spite of a promise two years ago to build an extra 65.

Mr Blair said Government had also cut local authority residential places for the
most disturbed and vulnerable young people. He said the number of local
authority residential homes had fallen from 1,130 in 1989 to 950 last year, a
loss of 180 homes with 1,650 beds.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 18, 1993

TWO MUSLIMS HELD AS CALCUTTA BLAST TOLL RISES;
Indian cities wait in fear of terrorist attacks, Muslims fear reprisals and the
army goes on alert, John Rettie reports from New Delhi

BYLINE: JOHN RETTIE IN NEW DELHI

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 709 words


CALCUTTA police arrested two suspects yesterday in connection with Tuesday
night's explosion in the city, which left at least 60 dead and 200 injured, many
seriously.

The suspects are the owner and the manager, both Muslims, of the two blocks of
flats wrecked in the explosion.

After their arrest the army was put on alert. Police also found a bomb concealed
in a food can near a cinema in central Calcutta, according to the semi-official
news agency Press Trust of India. It was defused.

As rescue workers struggled yesterday to bring the dead and wounded out of the
wreckage from Tuesday night's explosion, the whole of India was gripped by a
siege mentality after the second of its two greatest cities was struck in four
days.

Although Calcutta police emphasised that there was still no evidence to link the
explosion with the bombings in Bombay, many people were asking themselves which
city would be hit next.

In Delhi, Indians and foreign diplomats were looking over their shoulders,
fearing it might now be the capital's turn. The United States embassy told its
citizens to avoid hotels, bazaars and similar potential targets.

The Press Trust of India quoted intelligence reports as saying the capital was
bracing itself for an act of terrorism, and in a statement to parliament about
the Calcutta blast, the home minister, Shankar Chavan, appealed to MPs to sink
their differences and unite behind the country.

"There's no denying the fact that an atmosphere of violence and hatred is
spreading in the country and a sense of unity and integration will have to be
created among the people," he told the lower house.

"We will have to eschew religious differences and political considerations to
save the honour and unity of the country."

In Calcutta, as in Bombay, the immediate reaction seemed to be to do just that.
"I don't want to know who did it, Hindus or Muslims," one Hindu standing near
the two buildings destroyed by the explosion was quoted as saying.

"All I desperately want is that this thing must stop at once."

Police said that if the explosion had occurred in daytime there would have been
hundreds dead, which led them to suspect the incident had been an accident. But
a senior officer said: "There can be no doubt the explosives were stockpiled
there for killing people."

They said the explosives might have been intended for bombs to be planted in
various parts of the city to provoke new communal clashes. According to police,
both men arrested have previous criminal records.

Some 2,000 people were killed in such clashes all over India in December and
January, afterthe destruction of the Ayodhya mosque. Calcutta escaped lightly
then with about 40 dead, as a result of swift and decisive action on the part of
the West Bengal state government. In Bombay there were hundreds of casualties.

But one prominent Muslim told the Guardian last month he had information that
extremists were planning to stir up serious trouble in Calcutta.

Police in Bombay arrested three more suspects linked with the underworld
yesterday, bringing to seven the total held after last Friday's bombings.

Although India has no extradition treaty with Dubai, the Bombay city police
chief, Amarjit Singh Samra, said efforts were being made "at the highest level"
to secure the return of several members of a powerful underworld family who fled
there from Bombay last Friday and Saturday.

Mr Chavan told parliament that the foreign ministry had been asked to request
the authorities in the United Arab Emirates to send back to India two brothers
who "seem to have some kind of connection with the blasts".

The family is of Iranian extraction, but sources in Bombay said they were born
in the city.

Like many - though by no means all - of the other suspects in both cities, the
family is Muslim.

So far there has been little or no sign of hostility on the part of Hindus, with
everyone uniting against a common outside enemy.

Nevertheless, it is also true that many Muslims are feeling increasingly uneasy,
fearing that in the long term they may be regarded with mounting suspicion by
the Hindus with whom they have hitherto lived in comparative peace and harmony.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 31, 1993

VIETNAMESE FLEE CAMBODIA TERROR;
Urban attacks 'part of pre-poll destabilisation campaign'

BYLINE: NICHOLAS CUMMING-BRUCE IN BANGKOK

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 561 words


A TERROR campaign against ethnic Vietnamese in Cambodia has spread to the
capital, Phnom Penh, where three people were killed and more than 30 wounded in
a series of grenade attacks.

Most of the victims of the overnight attacks were reportedly ethnic Vietnamese.
The United Nations Transitional Authority in Cambodia (Untac) has not identified
those responsible, a UN spokesman, Eric Falt, reported. However, the attacks
followed a series of massacres of Vietnamese in rural areas which the UN has
blamed on Khmer Rouge guerrillas.

The campaign started thousands moving towards the border with Vietnam for
safety. Officials now fear the Khmer Rouge are taking up urban terror, aimed
both at killing more Vietnamese and causing political mayhem.

The attacks were "part of a systematic campaign of destabilisation prior to the
election", one UN source said.

Two people died and 16 were injured in the first of the attacks in the city when
two men on a motorcycle hurled a grenade into a restaurant owned and largely
frequented by Vietnamese. Another six people were injured by a grenade thrown or
planted in a city cafe.

The incidents coincided with increasingly brazen attacks on Untac peacekeepers
in rural areas, which last weekend claimed the life of the first UN soldier to
be killed in combat in Cambodia. Private Said Mohammed Yusuf, aged 25, of
Bangladesh was killed during a three-hour attack by suspected Khmer Rouge
guerrillas on his unit in the north-western province of Siem Reap. Bulgarian
peacekeepers also found themselves caught in a two-hour battle with unidentified
gunmen, who attacked a police station in southern Cambodia.

The terror tactics and generally deteriorating security are starting to achieve
the Khmer Rouge's professed desire to clear Cambodia of Vietnamese. After two
massacres of ethnic Vietnamese fishing communities around Cambodia's Great Lake
within the last three weeks, an estimated 5,000 have passed through Phnom Penh,
travelling by boat to the border.

Another wave of some 4,000 Vietnamese is now moving towards the capital. Many
fishermen are sending their wives and children by road to Phnom Penh as they
take their boats through Khmer Rouge-infiltrated stretches of river between the
lake and the capital, where they link up and continue down river to the border.

"It's not a mass migration by the Vietnamese in Cambodia - that's possible, but
for the timebeing it's not," Mr Falt said. But Untac now plans to monitor
security and provide armed river escorts to protect the Vietnamese on their
journey.

Among the hazards they face before reaching Vietnam are demands for substantial
pay-offs at checkpoints manned by Phnom Penh government police, Vietnamese
report.

The last Cambodian refugees in Thailand, meanwhile, are preparing to return
home, following one of the UN's biggest repatriation programmes. The UN High
Commissioner for Refugees, Sadako Ogata, yesterday visited the "Site 2" camp,
where some 20,000 Cambodians remain. It is the last of the border camps that
once housed more than 350,000 Cambodians.

Despite the instability in Cambodia, nearly all the refugees are expected to
return before the elections in May. At a departure ceremony for 1,700 Cambodians
leaving the camp yesterday, Ms Ogata said every returnee was a vote of
confidence in Cambodia.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 8, 1993

Clinton joins calls for new Irish talks. Three-nation attack on terrorism is
answered with a bomb.

BYLINE: Geoffrey Parkhouse,Russell Edmunds,John Cooney

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1015 words


PRESIDENT Clinton joined Britain and Ireland last night in an unprecedented,
three-nation attack on terrorism. He linked the United States with a call for
new talks to find a peaceful solution for Northern Ireland.

The IRA immediately delivered a rebuff with another disruptive bomb in central
London which closed Euston and St Pancras stations for the rush-hour and caused
chaos for thousands of homegoing commuters. But there were no injuries.

Scotland Yard said a man with an Irish accent had telephoned coded warnings more
than 30 minutes before the "small" explosion. The device had been planted among
rubbish surrounding a skip in an alleyway alongside the Conservative Club in
Argyle Square.

The blast happened just a few hours before an official memorial service for IRA
bombing victims in Warrington and on the day the Prime Minister, on a visit to
Northern Ireland, called for fresh political efforts to end violence in the
province.

As the Duke of Edinburgh, Irish President Mary Robinson, Mr Major, Labour leader
John Smith and other political leaders were gathering in Warrington for the
memorial service Mr Clinton despatched a personal message.

"The American people join the people of Ireland and the United Kingdom in
expressing their sympathy to those touched by these outrages," he told
Warrington rector Canon Jack Colling, who led the town's grief for the two
children killed on the weekend of Mother's Day.

The President renounced "in the strongest terms" violence from any quarter and
added that the US hopes that "out of this tragedy will emerge a new
determination to seek peace and reconciliation".

It was a welcome boost to the new UK-Irish initiative to restart constitutional
talks.

The move was welcomed by Mr John Hume, leader of the SDLP nationalist party in
Northern Ireland. But the Ulster Unionists, facing difficult local elections
next month, were suspicious. The Rev. Ian Paisley attacked Mr Major, who
launched the initiative in Strabane yesterday, as a hypocrite.

"The mood of the people in Northern Ireland is this: Mr Major must bring an end
to the terrorist situation," he said. "No amount of political talks will bring
the terrorist situation to an end." The Unionists are threatening to ignore the
call for the resumption of talks involving all the legal political parties,
unless Dublin first drops its constitutional claim to the six counties of
Northern Ireland.

Mr Paisley claimed: "I think Mr Major is a bit of a hypocrite because he was the
man who entered into a deal with the Irish premier Mr Reynolds to stop the talks
last November." The Unionists may need to test the mood of their supporters in
the May local elections before they commit themselves to new talks.

President Clinton, who wants to send a peace envoy to Ireland, was made aware
that the Warrington atrocity so moved people on both sides of the Atlantic that
there could be a chance of a breakthrough if there was sufficient political
backing.

This was given clearly by the new Irish premier Albert Reynolds. He said
yesterday: "You can take it that we will be involved in any initiative, ideas or
proposals on the North. There are no differences between the Irish and British
Governments and I have no doubt that there will be full consultation." His
Labour coalition partners agree.

Mr Reynolds repeated that Dublin's claim, established in Eire's constitution, to
the six counties could be reviewed. But "all constitutional matters must be on
the table together", he said. "I think that anybody who approaches it from one
side or the other, ignoring the fears, the anxieties and concerns of either
community, will not get a successful outcome to the talks."

Mr Major, launching the talks initiative in the border town of Strabane where he
was opening a £10.9m bomb-proof police station, said: "We must press ahead.
There are grounds for hope. The latest tragedies here and in England have
shocked people into thinking again. They have sunk into the national
consciousness. They have fuelled a demand for an end to this senseless
slaughter.

"Moods can be transitory. There have been times before when people have come
together only then to fall apart, times when they have made very determined
efforts which for one reason or another have not succeeded.

"I do not believe that we can afford to be the prisoners of past failures. Now
surely is a time for all who are concerned with Northern Ireland to think
again." He wants the new talks to begin again in May, probably after the local
elections.

If there are to be fresh talks in Ulster, they are most likely to be low-key in
comparison to the earlier failed attempts at a settlement.

Ulster unionists would expect to see more powers being restored to local
councils and to having more say at Westminster through the setting-up of a
Select Committee.

But nationalists in the Social Democratic Labour Party are demanding an even
higher profile for Dublin Government Ministers in Northern Ireland's affairs.

In Warrington, more than 1000 local people joined leading figures from both
sides of the Irish Sea for a special service of remembrance in the town's parish
church.

Hundreds more stood outside the sandstone church to hear the service of
"remembrance, reconciliation and commitment", relayed on loudspeakers.

Near the start of the service two candles in memory of three-year-old Johnathan
Ball and Tim Parry, 12, were lit in the church by their fathers, Mr Colin Parry
and Mr Wilf Ball.

Watching were many of those injured in the two blasts. Among them was 33-year
-old Mrs Bronwen Vickers, who lost a leg but who vowed from her hospital bed
that the IRA would not ruin her life.

Other victims, some of them limping and some still on crutches, were in the
congregation. They included 13-year-old Samantha Thompson, who was shopping with
Johnathan when he was killed.

Mr Parry and his wife, Wendy, whose courage over the loss of their son has
impressed millions, arrived at the service with their children

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A young boy at the memorial service in Warrington. Pinned to his hymn
sheet are photographs of the two boys who died in the IRA bombing, Timothy Parry
and Johnathan Ball. Picture: BOB COLLIER/Reuter

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 12, 1993

THE FORGOTTEN TRAGEDY;
Terrorist attacks on the mainland hit the headlines while murders in Northern
Ireland rate a few lines at most. Why?

BYLINE: ROY GREENSLADE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1415 words


TWO die in Warrington, newspapers raise a hue and cry, people are moved to
tears, and marchers take to the streets in the name of peace. Last week
thousands were moved to tears at the sombre memorial service in the town. But
within 36 hours of the Warrington bombing, six died in Northern Ireland,
virtually ignored by newspapers.

Let me make it clear at the outset that I share the sense of outrage which
greeted the appalling murders of Johnathan Ball and Timothy Parry. But I cannot
remain blind to the fact that many people in Northern Ireland consider the press
coverage has been disproportionate and the subsequent public reaction bordering
on the hysterical.

The killings were reported with the prominence one accepts as normal after such
acts: front page pictures of the victims; inside pages featured heartbreaking
interviews with witnesses, parents and friends; leader columns bristled with
righteous anger; thousands of words from feature writers and columnists, who
wrote movingly of the bereaved, or raged against the iniquity of the IRA. They
needed little encouragement from editors to urge violent revenge for this
senseless atrocity.

Two newspapers even advocated reprisal by lynch mob. "The evil men should be
hounded down and handed over to the people of Warrington for summary justice"
said the People. "Put the IRA up against a wall and shoot them," said the Sun.
Have they forgotten already the awful miscarriages of justice involving the
Birmingham Six, the Guildford Four and Judith Ward?

These purveyors of hyperbolic headlines would defend their cries for vengeance
by claiming that Warrington was a uniquely ghastly act. It was a massacre of
innocents.

There are, however, as far as the British Press is concerned two kinds of
massacre and two kinds of innocents. There is the unique massacre as against the
everyday, run-of-the-mill, seen-it-all-before sort of massacre. There are
innocents who happen to live in "mainland" Britain, and then there are innocents
who live in Ireland, even that bit of it designated as part of the United
Kingdom.

In the same week as Warrington four men died in a hail of bullets. Two more were
shot dead in further, separate incidents. And how were these deaths reported in
newspapers which depend on a diet of bloody crime to sell copies?

The massacre of four men, and murder of a fifth man, were told in five lines on
page 7 of the Sun and a paragraph in Today. These outrages were reported in a
couple of paragraphs on the bottom of inside pages in the Mirror and the
Express. The Daily Mail thought these atrocities worth six paragraphs.

Broadsheet newspapers did give the story of the killings more prominence, but
there was nothing like the space provided for the Warrington bombing. Nor did
the broadsheets feel it necessary to write leaders.

Damian Walsh, a 17-year-old part-time disc jockey, was shot in the back in West
Belfast. Yet there was no picture of this massacred innocent staring at us from
the front page of a tabloid.

Nor did we read eulogies on four "good; decent, hard-working men", as James
McKenna, 52, Noel Kane, 20, Gerry Dalrymple, 58, and James Kelly, 25, were later
described by their employer. These "Catholics' were stepping out of a van at a
building site in Castlerock, Co. Derry, when two men sprayed them with automatic
fire. A fifth man fell seriously injured.

There is an interesting subtext to this massacre. The day after it happened the
IRA announced that James Kelly was one of their men and one imagines the
collective shrug of the shoulders which greeted this news. He deserved it then.
It was, taking the Sun and the People at face value, justifiable homicide.

Even if we leave aside the fact that, as civilised human beings, we are supposed
to deplore the concept of shoot-to-kill by the security forces, let alone by
gun-toting paramilitaries, the absence of sympathetic and sizeable newspaper
coverage on the Warrington scale does not wash.

Firstly, papers decided to ignore the shootings 24 hours before Kelly's IRA
membership was revealed. Secondly; there was not a scintilla of doubt about the
other three men not having IRA links. In the parlance of tabloids, they were
innocents.

Incidentally, the sixth man to die in that bloody period was builder Peter
Gallagher. But he was a Sinn Fein member, so not a line appeared in the
tabloids. Another shrug.

These deaths do not fit the ideological requirements of the Government's
political policy which is broadly supported by every newspaper. This policy
involves the Government concentrating all its propaganda on one front, against
the evil of the IRA. Newspapers have reflected this simplistic view, treating
the murderous attacks by Loyalist gangs as a regrettable but natural consequence
of the IRA campaign.

Hence the Daily Mail headlined the Castlerock massacre by Loyalist gunmen as a
"revenge attack" for Warrington, as if justifying sectarian murder. Yet the
history of the Troubles since 1969 reveals that Protestant extremists have been
acting violently towards Catholics irrespective of the IRA.

I mention this as only one instance of the way in which British newspaper
readers are receiving partial truth about Ireland. Witness the result, by the
way, of such prejudice against understanding. Is it not odd that actress Emma
Thompson should be traduced by newspapers simply for portraying a lawyer who
fought against a miscarriage of justice involving Irish people, in a film based
on Gerry Conlon's book? And what was the logic behind the public protest because
BBC1's Rough Justice raised yet another possible wrong conviction of a Belfast
man?

These concerns are not unique to me. Every Northern Ireland national newspaper
correspondent I have spoken to has similar misgivings about the difficulty of
getting their reports into their own papers and hence helping readers to grasp
the truth.

Such disenchantment is thought to be the reason why the experienced and
enthusiastic Daily Telegraph correspondent, Chris Ryder, decided to resign last
week after five years with the paper. Like his rivals, he complains both about
"English bias" and the way tabloids, which have no knowledge of Northern Irish
reality, are nevertheless able to set the news agenda, dragging broadsheets down
into similar "superficial reporting."

No British tabloid bothers to employ a full-time correspondent in Northern
Ireland any longer, relying on agencies to cover outbreaks of violence that make
a paragraph or two.

Broadsheets do provide a better coverage, but all their reporters talk of their
frustration at trying to convince London-based newsdesks of the importance of
their stories. Even multiple death is not guaranteed space any longer.

The lack of context which runs alongside an escalating casualty rate has had a
sinister effect on people in Britain and the Irish Republic, according to Liam
Clarke of the Sunday Times. "It is as if Northern Ireland people themselves are
the problem," he says. "Therefore, when something happens, it's almost as if we
aren't considered innocent."

Awareness of this shame is reinforced when mainland deaths attract greater
coverage than deaths in Northern Ireland. The Guardian's Owen Bowcott believes
it is "wounding and perplexing to the people here and sometimes bewildering to
us correspondents."

Then again, as all reporters concede, the story of violence in a province of 1.5
million people is so repetitive that newspapers are only reflecting the apathy
of 57 million in the rest of the UK by refusing to report it. "The Troubles are
like the weather," said one correspondent. "They appear completely beyond
anyone's control."

It would appear the same is also true for papers in the Republic. Mark Brennock,
who has just returned to the Dublin office of the Irish Times after a
two-and-a-half year stint as a Belfast correspondent, wrote a sad valedictory
last week.

"It has proved impossible for the media to shock people with the suffering of
all these killings," he wrote. "There are just too many of them."

He noted how the people in the Republic have stopped listening to or looking at
news concerned with the North, just as they have in Britain.

With disillusioned correspondents amid a community which feels that nobody
outside cares enough to understand, it is no wonder that the peace moves after
Warrington have received little support in Belfast and Derry.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 25, 1993, Sunday

LATEST IN STRING OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 279 words


Yesterday's attack in the heart of the City of London is the latest in a string
of terrorist strikes on mainland Britain in 1993.  Other blasts this year
happened on:
    April 23, when a bomb damaged an oil tank at the riverside Esso terminal at
North Shields, Tyne and Wear. No one was hurt.
    April 7, when a bomb went off outside a Conservative Club in King's Cross,
central London. There were no injuries.
    March 20, when two bombs exploded without warning in litter bins in
Warrington shopping centre, Cheshire, killing three-year-old Johnathan Ball and
Timothy Parry, 12, and injuring 55 others.
    February 27, when 18 were injured, two seriously, by a blast in Camden High
Street, north London. Police said misleading telephone warnings led shoppers
into the path of the explosion.
    February 26, when three bombs exploded at a gasworks in Warrington,
Cheshire. Nobody was injured.
    February 10, a small bomb exploded outside a private house in Cadogan Place,
Belgravia. Police believed terrorists may have dumped it as there was no obvious
target.
    February 3, a bomb exploded on the 9.05am London to Ramsgate passenger
train, the first bomb to have exploded on a train in service. A second blast
shook the underground station at South Kensington, London. No one was injured in
either incident.
    January 28, when a small bomb exploded in a litter bin outside Harrods,
Knightsbridge, slightly injuring four people, 30 minutes after two coded
telephone warnings.
    January 6, four firebombs ignited in the early hours in London stores in
Oxford Street and The Strand. No injuries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 26, 1993, Monday

CASH GIFTS FOR DRIVERS WHO FOILED TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE:  Moira Whittle, Press Association Offers of cash have flooded in to the
two

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 399 words


mini-cab drivers who foiled terrorist bomb attacks only hours after the IRA City
of London blast.  The drivers' cars were blown up, leaving the men unable to
earn their living. They are unlikely to receive any insurance money because
their policies do not cover acts of terrorism.  They foiled the intended attacks
on Downing Street and New Scotland Yard by disobeying the bombers' orders.  Both
men were hijacked, threatened with guns and told to drive their potentially
lethal cargoes to the two targets. Instead, they alerted police.  Devices
planted in their cars exploded in Holborn, central London, and Finsbury Park,
north London. Nobody was injured.  The cabs were hired from the same firm by men
with Irish accents.  The drivers' boss, Alan Haslehurst, director of Alan's Car
Service, Tottenham, north London, said today: "We are looking at possible ways
and means of doing something to help them out.  "We have already had a number of
phone calls offering them cash.  "If possible we would like to get these blokes
back on the road - it would be very nice to have something sorted out by the end
of the week." Police have issued descriptions of the four men involved in the
attacks: Suspect 1: White, aged about 24, 5ft 7in, slim athletic build with
short fair hair, and wearing jeans and trainers.  Suspect 2: White, aged about
45, 5ft 10in, wearing a black cricketer's-type cap, overcoat and black trousers.
Suspect 3: White, aged 20-25, 5ft 7in, clean-shaven with an Irish accent,
wearing a black baseball cap, dark glasses, dark jacket and jeans. Suspect 4:
White, aged 20-25, 5ft 10in, wearing a black baseball cap.

Police praised the two cab drivers for averting a major tragedy.  "In both cases
the actions of the drivers enabled police safely to evacuate the areas before
detonation," said a Scotland Yard spokeswoman.  Police also issued descriptions
of the four men involved in the incident. They are: Suspect 1: White, aged about
24, 5ft 7 tall, slim athletic build with short fair-blond hair, and wearing
jeans and trainers.  Suspect 2: White, aged about 45, 5ft 10 tall, wearing a
black cricketer's-type cap, overcoat and black trousers.  Suspect 3: White, aged
20-25, 5ft 7 tall, clean-shaven with an Irish accent, wearing a black baseball
cap, dark glasses, dark jacket and jeans.  Suspect 4: White, aged 20-25, 5ft 10
tall, wearing a black baseball cap.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                    FT Energy Newsletters - Energy Economist

                                  May 1, 1993

News: Basque terrorists attack new gas trunk line

SOURCE: Energy Economist

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 22 words


Basque terrorists have claimed responsibility for a bomb attack on the new gas
trunk line being built across the Pyrenees.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newsletter

                Copyright 1993 Financial Times Business Limited

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  June 5, 1993

BOMB LEAVES WOUND AT THE HEART OF EUROPEAN CULTURE;
After the terrorist attack, Ed Vulliamy in Florence surveys the lacerated
paintings and broken sculptures amid the wreckage of the Uffizi art gallery

BYLINE: ED VULLIAMY

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1792 words


"I DARE not stop to think what this has done - even to me personally," says
Annamaria Petrioli Tofani, director of the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, as she
turns back into the violated wreckage of the world's most illustrious home of
fine art.  "This is a deep, terrible wound to art, to us all, to history. But I
just have to pretend that I am still strong."

"They have ripped a fibre out of our brains, out of our souls. Everything feels
changed," says Antonio Paolucci, the government's superintendent of museums in
Florence.

"What was that phrase the French Resistance once used to describe the Nazis?"
reflects Florence's assessor for culture, Luigi Ballini, "the assassins of
memory - that's it. That's what they are - the assassins of memory. But they
will fail. In fact, they have already been defeated, for I have yet to meet a
single Florentine who has said 'I am afraid'."

These are voices from the aftermath of the bomb which struck at the heart of
European civilisation last week, wiping out a family of four, killing another
young man, wounding 30, devastating some of the loveliest streets in Italy and
ripping into the side of the Uffizi to inflict crude violence upon some of the
jewels of our culture. It is the first time terrorism and the artistic heritage
have been so catastrophically entwined.

A walk through the Uffizi is a strange and enraging experience. What is left of
the lost paintings lie on the floor in the less-damaged east wing - beneath
surviving masterpieces by Leonardo or Filippo Lippi - covered by sheeting, like
corpses. The real victims of this explosion were five human lives, including
that of a baby, but there is no point in trying to deny an analogy between those
deaths and the impact that these destroyed paintings make on those who knew
them.

"We feel embarrassed talking about paintings when a baby of two months old is
dead," says Mr Paolucci, "of course life is more important. But that said,
something else dies too when you destroy both man and the genius of man
together. This museum belongs to mankind."

Antonio Godoli, chief architect at the Uffizi, lifts up the sheet draped over
one of these canvas corpses to reveal what remains of Gerrit van Honthorst's
masterpiece Adoration of the Shepherds - nothing.

The finest painting by the man the Italians called "Gherardo Delle Notti" -
Gerrit of the Nights - because of his distinctive use of dark and light, has
simply disintegrated. The frame and canvas are almost intact but the paint was
removed by the blast. Alongside are envelopes placed on old newspapers and
filled with what fragments of colour the Uffizi staff can assemble, and
labelled: "Gherado Delle Notti - shepherds' robes, indigo".

But in vain. The painting, like two lesser works by Bartolomeo Manfredo - The
Card Players and A Concert - will, as Dr Tofani says, "become documents,
exhibits in the museum of human folly".

Gherardo's was a beautiful painting - the Christ-child was the source of a
brilliant but restrained light which brought forth the faces of rough shepherds
with its glow.

Working in Rome and then in Florence, Gherardo, from Utrecht, was Caravaggio's
closest and most inventive pupil who pushed the frontiers of the chiaroscuro
technique even further than his master before passing on this stylistic
revolution to his native Flanders.

Another wonderful painting lost is Manfredo's The Card Players - a roguish bunch
around a table, the main figure turned to look over his shoulder in a
classically Caravaggian pose to heed some advice from a young boy emerging from
the shadows.

These are the dead. Then there are the wounded: more than 30 paintings - some of
them masterpieces known and admired throughout the world. The damaged paintings
are patched up with Japanese rice-gauze paper covering their wounds, the most
badly damaged covered with sheets.

The Death of Adonis is one of the best-loved paintings by the Venetian master
Sebastiano del Piombo. It is now gashed, with a great hole in what was the
luminous sky. Mr Paolucci is an expert on Venetian painting and calls this
damage, "my deepest personal hurt. That pure landscape, that still, dramatic sky
- it is one of the high points of Venetian painting."

Roger van der Weyden was among the greatest of the Flemish masters, and his
Entombment (1450) is one of the Uffizi's most celebrated treasures - a
lachrymose group bearing the dead Christ towards his tomb, set in a mystical
landscape teeming with symbolic references. Unluckily moved from its usual perch
for restoration, this complex masterpiece is now slit and violated.

Rubens painted the flamboyant King Henry IV at the battle of D'Ivry in 1627 - a
vortex of virility and movement, now badly slashed and pockmarked. His portrait
of Philip of Spain is likewise ravaged.

The Adoration of the Child (1620) - again by Gherardo Delle Notti, is also
horribly ripped, with whole surfaces of colour blown away by the blast.

Another of Caravaggio's followers was Artemisia Gentileschi, whose Judith
wrenches off Olophemes's bloody head with all the muscular melodrama loved by
Caravaggio's school. This loud painting is also muted by damage.

Claude Lorrain's Port with Medici Palace is a majestic piece, a setting sun
behind the fantastical harbour, buzzing with activity. This, like most of these
pictures, was slit by flying glass as the windows and the skylights of the rooms
around the entrance to the Vasari corridor were blown in. Others were damaged by
the blast that pinned them to the walls before tearing them out into the rooms.

"Some of these will never be the same," says Mr Paolucci. "Even when they are
back with us they will be like a man who has lost his leg and has a wooden one
instead."

"The Uffizi", says Mr Ballini, "is like a book with pages torn out. It's still
there, but the story is incomplete."

The glorious staircase leading from the Vasari corridor formed a wind tunnel of
blast, which blew off a heavy door and decapitated an ancient Roman copy of a
Greek discus thrower. In the great Sala Delle Niobe, a Greek figure's legs,
after two millenia of existence, are reduced to stumps.

Beyond the Uffizi, in the little church of San Stefano al Ponte, Giotto's
Madonna of the Coast has suffered minor but irreparable damage. Pieces of glass
have dug deep into the wood and must remain, for to remove them would cause more
harm.

Perhaps the most dramatic destruction is to the Uffizi building itself. As you
progress round, so the lesions to walls worsen, until the rooms become a ghostly
parade of empty space beneath open ceilings, dropped rafters and jagged piles.

The great Buontalenti stairway felt the full force of the blast - vaults crashed
down, the floor was ripped and the rectangle of a flying, burning windowpane has
left its imprint on the cratered ceiling.

The most awful view of all, however, is out of the windows on to what was a
charmed view of the medieval streets but which is now desolate rubble below,
where, until last week, Europe's oldest agricultural academy stood. From one
window on the stairway, can be seen a little adjacent window in what was the
13th century Pulci Tower. "That is the flat of the obliterated family," says Mr
Godoli.

Giorgio Vasari, the brilliant Renaissance maverick who designed and built the
Uffizi for the Medici family in 1581, wanted to bequeath to Florence an edifice
which would last. And, as Mr Godoli says: "The structure remains sound . . .
Vasari was not actually an architect, but he was a great artisan and an
opportunist of intelligence. He built the Uffizi on unstable ground, next to a
river. He made it elastic and flexible. If it had been made of concrete and
steel the damage would have been very much worse."

The sturdiness of this building echoes the mettle of its staff. There is a
remarkable atmosphere of wounded pride, diligence and defiance among those who
arrive to work on the reconstruction before 7.30am and remain into the evening
without let up.

"We cannot stop to think too much," says the director, Dr Tofani, "we only think
about tomorrow, rushing as fast as we can towards tomorrow, about organising our
labours so that this museum can recover."

The Florentine restoration studio, the Opificio delle Pietre Dure - seasoned by
the workload which followed the flood of 1966 and by repairs to Masaccio's
frescoes and Botticelli's Primavera - is hard at work along with a network of
other studios in the city.

The Opificio's director, Giorgio Bonsanti, says "the immediate first-aid problem
is to prevent the sudden breaking away of further colour from the canvases. It
will be relatively easy to remedy the paint where the colour remains alive, but
much more complex where the paint-skin has been torn away."

The government has offered pounds 15 million to cover all damage to the bombed
area - but the Uffizi bill alone will be at least four times that.

"There is damage on two levels" says Dr Tofani. "One is physical, the other
psychological. Even the Nazis spared this heritage. My generation was confident
that it was sacred. Now we know that something which is sacred and which
transcends life can be brutally abused. It is a terrible degeneration."

"I walked through the Uffizi with torches, 90 minutes after the bomb with
Annamaria Tofani," says Mr Paolucci. "There was just devastation. And I knew at
that moment that even when we get almost everything back to normal, something
will have changed completely. Art has become a target for terrorism. From now
on, when a work of art becomes well known or widely loved, it is at risk."

Last Wednesday night, 30,000 Florentines went free to all the other museums in
the city which had opened until midnight as a gesture of defiance. They were, as
the mayor, Giorgio Morfales, said yesterday "families, people who haven't been
to a museum for years and kids who would more likely go to the disco".

By 1.04am on Thursday morning an even bigger crowd had assembled outside the
Uffizi at the exact time of the bombing a week before. As the moment arrived
there was a roaring silence as the bells of the Bargello struck in memory of the
dead. The bell had tolled only twice in recent times - after the Nazi occupation
ended in 1944, and after the flood of 1966.

Part of the Uffizi is due to reopen on June 18. Mr Godoli is concerned that this
may be too optimistic, given that all the ventilation and humidification system
are broken apart.

But he says: "What gets to me is that woman on Italian television standing on
top of the rubble saying 'This was the Uffizi'. I am sorry madam, this is the
Uffizi. We are still here, more so than ever."


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                             June 13, 1993, Sunday

It was never like this at Waterloo;
The royal bodyguard is wired for sound _ MAJOR WITH A RADIO IN HIS HELMET
PROTECTS THE QUEEN FROM TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Paul Keel

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 814 words


THE Queen's personal bodyguard was keeping something under his hat yesterday at
the Trooping the Colour ceremony in London.

Inside his ornate gold and silver plated helmet, Major Hugh Robertson was wired
for sound - to combat any terrorist threat to the Monarch.

His role dates back to 1659 when Charles II created a royal mounted bodyguard -
today's Life Guards. The uniform would have been worn at the Battle of Waterloo.

But along with his regimental sword, red tunic, white buckskin breeches and
gleaming cuirass, Major Robertson wore a radio microphone and earpiece to keep
in constant touch with police surveillance teams.

Clocks


The Gulf War veteran was equipped to receive instant reports on any security
alert, and transmit his own advice in a sudden crisis.

'It's not the prospect of a remote-controlled bomb which alarms us most.  We're
more than prepared for that,' said Major Robertson, 29, who proudly carried the
title Field Officer of the Escort. 'What concerns me most is the possibility of
somebody running from the crowd and trying to get to the Queen.

'If that happened my duty is quite clear and simple. I get between the person
and the Queen and, yes, I draw my sword and would use it if necessary.'

His day began at 6 am at Knightsbridge Barracks. After reveille, sounded not by
buglers but two digital alarm clocks, he exercised his mount Lawrence. After
breakfast he pulled on the breeches - good at cushioning sword blows, but
notoriously uncomfortable for four hours in the saddle.

Better, however, than the chemical protection suit he had in the Gulf where the
regiment drove Challenger tanks. 'There's more to the cavalry than performing at
ceremonials,' said the Canterbury-born officer. 'But I was delighted to be
chosen as the Sovereign's escort.'

What today's cavalry officer is wearing...(CAPTIONS):

SAFE: Major Robertson, right, flanks the Queen

ON PARADE: The 29-year-old Gulf veteran in his uniform as Field Officer of the
Escort

BRACED FOR ACTION: Major Robertson, left, is fitted with the radio equipment to
keep him in constant touch with police as he rides by the Queen's side

HEAR TO SERVE: The microphone placed in the cavalry officer's ear, right, will
give him a running commentary and advance warning of any emergency

HEAD SET: The sensitive hi-tech microphone is placed inside the major's
ceremonial gold and silver plated helmet

Pictures: STEVE BENT

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (SEE STORY)

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 June 25, 1993

Armed police in raids after terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 191 words


POLICE were last night holding a number of people under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act at various police stations in Northumbria.

They were being questioned about recent acts of terrorism in the north Tyneside
area, said a police spokeswoman.

The arrests, which involved armed officers, came in two phases, the first early
in the morning at several locations, then later at a house in the Gateshead
area.

"A large number of officers were involved, including armed officers and those
from specialist squads," a police spokeswoman said.

There has been a spate of attacks in North Shields and Gateshead, Tyne and Wear.

A device was found at North Shields on April 23. It caused little damage.

An attack at the same location on June 9 followed a similar attack at Gateshead
the previous day.

Earlier this month the IRA claimed responsibility for two bomb attacks on
Tyneside.

A housing estate at Dunston, Gateshead, was evacuated when a device blew up a
gas holder. Next day a disused Esso oil terminal was hit by a blast.

Police have been urging people to be extra vigilant and report anything unusual.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                              July 2, 1993, Friday

GUNMAN KILLS 9 IN OFFICE TERROR;
2am:CRAZED ATTACKER ROAMS FROM FLOOR TO FLOOR IN SKYSCAPER

BYLINE: Peter Sheridan

SECTION: Pg. 1, 5

LENGTH: 1280 words


AT LEAST seven people died when a gunman rampaged through a high-rise office
block last night.

More than 15 others were seriously wounded as he roamed from floor to floor,
firing two Uzi sub-machine guns.

As each floor echoed with the screams of his victims, he calmly moved to the
next level of the tower in San Francisco.

The middle-aged gunman, wearing an ammunition belt across his chest, started
shooting on the 34th floor office of a law firm.

He strode through all four floors occupied by the firm, methodically hunting
down staff in dozens of small rooms.

Some victims ran out into his path after a fire he started set off alarms.

One weeping secretary said: 'I heard the alarm and ran out of my office,
smelling smoke. I saw bullet-holes in the walls and ran straight back in. I was
terrified.'

Survivors told of a nightmare din of screams, breaking glass, gunshots and
wailing alarms.

In scenes that echoed the Bruce Willis thriller Die Hard, heavily-armed police
teams tracked the killer.

Victims lay bleeding in corridors but rescuers were forced to keep their
distance for fear the man had an accomplice.

Police used the public address system to order other staff to lock themselves
in.

Finally the gunman turned one of his weapons on himself after he was confronted
by police as he tried to escape down stairs on the 30th floor.

The attacker's target was the law firm of Petit and Martin in the city's
business district.

Executive Revedy Johnson said the man came out of a lift on the 34th floor and
began shooting Turn to Page 2, Col. 1 shooting without warning. He said: 'He
first fired through the glass partition in front of him at one of my partners
who was sitting at his desk.

'It shattered the glass and my partner was hit. The man walked into the office
and fired at him again to make sure he was dead.

'After that he shot into an adjoining conference room and hit some more staff
and a stenographer.

'I think he also shot at a lot more people on that floor before he went down a
set of fire escape stairs.

'There's obviously been a degree of terror. I think people who witnessed the
killings are very traumatised.'

Secretary Erika O'Neill, 29, who works on the 35th floor, said: 'About six of us
barricaded the door with a big chair. It seemed like we were in there for
hundreds of hours.'

'The 34th floor is in a very bad shape. There are bullet holes everywhere and
blood all over the floor.

Her colleague Ulla Wagenblaft said: 'This has been a nightmare. I don't think it
has sunk in yet. Everyone is walking around in a daze.'

Another eye-witness told how he nearly came face to face with the heavily-built
gunman.

He said: 'I was on 35 and I wanted to go down the stairs and see what was
happening.

'I was halfway down and the gunman came into that staircase, so I backed up very
quietly.'

Hundreds of workers were still barricaded in their offices hours after the
shooting ended.

Police with drawn guns were searching the building floor by floor.  Hundreds
more police surrounded the glass-walled 49-storey tower, in California Street.

The drama caused chaos in the city centre as police sealed off an area several
blocks square.

A nearby subway station was closed and the California Street service of the
city's famous cable cars was halted.

There was no immediate clue to the attacker's motive. One worker at the law firm
said he had gone there to make a deposition. She said a court reporter was among
the dead.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                             July 12, 1993, Monday

CAMPSITE RAPIST ATTACKS LONELY TRIPPER CAMPSITE TERROR AS RAPIST ATTACKS TRIPPER

BYLINE: Peter Burden

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 667 words


A RAPIST who attacked a camper on a busy holiday site was being hunted last
night.

The 40-year-old victim was walking her two small dogs shortly after arriving at
the site in the New Forest for a weekend break with her husband.

The attacker struck from behind, pulling the woman to the ground only a short
distance from her caravan.

The rape happened at about 6pm on Friday as scores of holidaymakers were sitting
down to tea in their tents and caravans on the Roundhills Enclosure campsite
near Brockenhurst, Hampshire.

The woman was returning to her caravan after walking through a wooded area when
her attacker struck as she reached a deserted part of the site, near the
entrance. Her husband who was inside the caravan 300 yards away was alerted when
his terrified wife called for help as the rapist fled.

The woman, who was taken to a special rape unit set up by Hampshire Police in
Southampton, described her attacker as black, in his late 20s to early 30s and
about 6ft 1in. He was muscular, clean-shaven and wearing blue jeans and a purple
T-shirt.

'This woman had arrived for a weekend break on Friday and believed she was safe
and secure on the campsite,' said Detective Inspector Paul Dawson who is leading
the hunt.

'Instead she found herself the victim of a rapist. She has been very badly
mentally scarred and is extremely distressed. This man must be caught before he
strikes again.'

Mr Dawson said that they were anxious to trace a man seen in a local public
house at about 3pm on Friday. It is thought he may be the driver of a new red or
maroon estate car with a roof rack in the area of the campsite.

Shortly after the rape a woman complained to police that she had been almost run
down by a maroon coloured vehicle as it accelerated away from a nearby road.

'There were a lot of people about at the time and someone must have got a good
look at this man and his car. We urgently need them to come forward,' Mr Dawson
added.

The attack closely resembles a vicious rape in the New Forest some years ago and
police are checking whether the man convicted for that crime has been released.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             July 13, 1993, Tuesday

GIRL TELLS COURT OF TERROR LEAP TO AVOID SEX ATTACK

BYLINE:  Melvyn Howe, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 356 words


A terrified teenager hurled herself from a speeding car to escape the sexual
advances of a bogus mini-cab driver, a court was told today.  She smashed into
railings at the side of the road at 35mph and then tumbled along the pavement
before finally staggering to her feet covered in cuts and bruises.  The
18-year-old told Southwark Crown Court her alleged attacker stopped and she
believed she would be assaulted again.  She screamed at a passing cyclist for
help but he ignored her. Finally a couple in a car stopped and took her to a
police station.  Her alleged attacker, Tahir Rahim, 31, of Acton, west London,
denies indecently assaulting her last April and assault causing actual bodily
harm.  The girl told the jury she had gone to Samantha's nightclub in London's
West End with her boyfriend.  But after an argument with him she decided to
leave on her own and catch a cab to her home in Hornchurch, Essex.  She claimed
Rahim was parked outside the club and appeared to be a mini-cab driver.  He
agreed to drive her home but during the 4am journey, he persistently touched her
hand and leg.  "I told him not to ... he kept apologising and saying there was
nothing to worry about." When he took a wrong turn she became "really worried"
about what he was going to do.  She told the court that after getting back onto
the right road, he "suddenly changed and went mad", grabbing her jacket, pulling
at her blouse and bra and scratching one of her breasts in the process. The
teenager, who cannot be named for legal reasons, said she managed to undo her
seatbelt, fight free of his clutches and leap from the car.  She was taken to
Limehouse police station by a couple and the court heard Rahim allegedly
followed their car. But a note had been made of his car registration number and
he was arrested at his home several hours later.  David Jeremy, prosecuting,
said Rahim denied he had been posing as a mini-cab driver and had simply given
the distressed youngster a lift "out of the goodness of his heart" and because
he was worried about her safety at that time of the night.  The trial was
adjourned until tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 21, 1993, Wednesday

Loyalist terrorists in bomb attacks on SDLP politicians; Blasts display UFF's
increasing sophistication

BYLINE: IAN MACKINNON

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 429 words


LOYALIST terrorists yesterday showed their increasing sophistication when they
launched co-ordinated bomb attacks at the Belfast homes of three prominent
members of the nationalist SDLP.

Two of the devices had been planted under the politicians' cars. One of them
exploded, while the other was discovered and defused by the Army. Within an
hour, a third device went off at a house yards from the home of another
politician. No one was hurt in the attacks.

The Ulster Freeedom Fighters, a loyalist paramilitary group, later claimed
responsibility for the attacks in a call to the BBC, saying that three of its
active service units had planted 1lb devices. The incidents bring to nine the
number of SDLP members who have been targeted this year since the UFF said it
would step up its violence against what it called the ''pan-nationalist
movement'', linking the SDLP, the Irish government, the IRA and Sinn Fein.

Security experts said the Royal Ulster Constabulary believed a young and
ruthless clique had gained control of the UFF, which is increasingly resourceful
- as demonstrated by its ability to use explosives and operate in a co-ordinated
fashion.

The first device exploded shortly before 1am under the Renault car of the SDLP
MP, Dr Joe Hendron, which was parked outside his home in west Belfast. ''My wife
heard this hissing sound and immediately afterwards there was a loud
explosion,'' he said. ''We knew at once it was a bomb. We ran to the window and
there was smoke coming from the car.''

The MP, his wife and two children, were not hurt in the blast, which caused
serious damage to the car.

Shortly afterwards, a bomb was found under the car of Dr Brian Feeney, a leading
SDLP member who resigned his seat on Belfast council at the last elections. Bomb
disposal experts carried out a controlled explosion. Dr Feeney, who was away on
holiday, returned home when told of the attack.

About an hour later, a third bomb exploded at a vacant house several doors away
from the home of another SDLP councillor, Mary Muldoon.

During the past six months there have been bomb attacks on the homes of six SDLP
members in Banbridge, Ballymena and Belfast.

Later Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of the SDLP, condemned the attacks, which he
said were not just against his members but the entire political process.

He said: ''The brave men and wom en who serve in constitutional politics in
Northern Ireland will continue to do so. We will win out over the terrorists who
have nothing in their armoury but the bomb and bullet.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 30, 1993, Friday

Letter: Israeli attacks in Lebanon encourage terrorist responses

BYLINE: From Mr NADIM SHEHADI

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 334 words


Sir: Mark Berg (Letters, 29 July) neglects to mention some facts that may help
in understanding the situation in southern Lebanon. Before the Israeli invasion
of 1982, and its subsequent ''Iron Fist'' policy, together with the creation of
concentration camps such as Ansar, where people were detained against all
international conventions, nobody had heard of anything called Hizbollah.

Hizbollah gains its strength from posing as a resistance movement to Israeli
occupation, and as such it is difficult for the Lebanese government to control
it as long as Israel continues to occupy the south in defiance of UN
resolutions. Hizbollah's operations are conducted solely against military
targets inside the so-called security zone, and its shelling of northern Israel
has always been in response to Israeli bombardment.

I fail to see how the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people in the
south could in any way weaken Hizbollah or strengthen the Lebanese government's
ability to control it. On the contrary, Israel's latest action has grave
consequences on the process of reconciliation and reconstruction and has put the
efforts of the government to restore confidence in the country back to square
one.

The people of southern Lebanon yearn for the re-establishment of government
authority in their area; only then will Hizbollah's raison d'etre become
redundant. The destruction of the villages in southern Lebanon will only create
more radicalism in the face of a government unable to stop Israeli aggression,
and it also prevents any moderates from having a voice. This cannot help the
peace process.

In 1982, Israel's declared aim was to eradicate the PLO. The result was the
creation of bigger problems than it set out to resolve. I fear that its present
adventure will prove as disastrous, and it is time the international community
put an end to such practices.

Yours sincerely,

NADIM SHEHADI

Director

Centre for Lebanese Studies

Oxford

29 July


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 30, 1993, Friday

Letter: Israeli attacks in Lebanon encourage terrorist responses

BYLINE: From Mr CATHAL O'CONNOR

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 125 words


SIR: Mark Berg, of the Britain Israel Public Affairs Centre (Letters, 29 July),
attempts to defend Israel's extensive bombardment of much of Lebanon, by both
the air force and the army - causing hundreds of civilian deaths - by describing
the Shia Arabs, who for eight years have been trying to defend their country
from Israeli occupation, as ''terrorists''.

He quotes the Oxford Dictionary definition of terrorism as ''the use of violence
and intimidation, especially for political purposes''. Yet is this not an
accurate and succinct description of the Israeli government's policy, as defined
explicitly by its Prime Minister during the past few days?

Yours sincerely,

CATHAL O'CONNOR

Tiddington,

Warwickshire

29 July


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 30, 1993, Friday

Letter: Israeli attacks in Lebanon encourage terrorist responses

BYLINE: From Mr GERARD M. BLAIR

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 19

LENGTH: 73 words


Sir: Suppose that a group of terrorists took up residence in villages on the
east coast of Ireland and that the Irish government was not minded to interrupt
them as they launched sporadic missile attacks on the west coast of England. How
long would it be before the British Army fought back? Those who so readily
condemn Israeli actions should suggest alternatives.

Yours faithfully,

GERARD M. BLAIR

Edinburgh

29 July


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1993

KURDISH BOMBS FAIL TO KEEP IMPERTURBABLE BRITISH AT BAY;
Jonathan Rugman in the Turkish resort of Bodrum finds a mixed response among
tourists to the threat of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: JONATHAN RUGMAN

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 703 words


AT MARMARIS, where Antony and Cleopatra once cavorted on a beach of sand shipped
from Africa for the purpose, a honeymooning pair from West Byfleet were
reflecting on their two weeks in the sun.

"Friends at home were ribbing us about being blown up or kidnapped in Turkey,"
said David Johnson, aged 28. "But it never crossed our minds to cancel."

Up the coast at Bodrum, where Herodotus walked his first steps, a British
holidaymaker in one of the town's packed bars had trouble just staying upright.

"We heard there was some shit going on with the Kurds and stuff," said Mike
Worsley from Sunderland, shortly after he had fallen off the counter of the
Sensi bar in a Bacchanalian frenzy. "But that's happening a long way from here
and we're just having a good time."

About 500,000 British tourists are expected to visit Turkey this year. Along the
Mediterranean coast they appear undiminished in their enthusiasm for the beaches
and bars, despite a series of Kurdish bomb attacks which have threatened to
throw the holiday industry into chaos.

Last Friday six tourists in the crowded port of Kusadasi were amongst the
injured when a bomb went off in a rubbish bin. A week earlier three tourists
were hurt when a similar device exploded in Istanbul.

Attacks in Antalya have left one person dead, while two British cyclists are
still missing inland, compulsory guests of the Kurdish rebels.

A spokeswoman for the tour operator Thomsons said there were just two
cancellations after the Kusadasi attack.

"We've had a couple of calls from concerned relatives but that's about it," Neil
Goodburn of Owners Abroad said in Bodrum, where more than 5,000 British are
currently on holiday.

The police have put more patrol cars on the approach roads to Bodrum and
Marmaris, and a new law lets hotels set up their own armed security teams. With
thousands cramming the cafes and night spots, there is little more the police
can do.

The Germans take the Kurdish threat far more seriously than the British: 60,000
cancelled bookings in the first half of the year, a figure which has probably
passed 100,000 by now.

"The Germans aren't used to this kind of thing," said Dogan Tugay, Britain's
honorary consul in Marmaris, claiming that the German media had painted an
exaggerated picture of the Turkish-Kurdish conflict.

Turkey still draws more Germans than any other foreigners - nearly 150,000 last
month alone - but a heightened sense of the Kurdish conflict is not the only new
deterrent: the death of five Turks at the hands of German neo-Nazis in Solingen
has increased the potential for friction.

The commander of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) promised to make this the
"bloodiest summer ever" - bad news for a holiday industry just recovering from
the crippling effect of the Gulf war.

Tourists earned Turkey about pounds 2.7 billion last year, and government
officials are keen to emphasise a continuing curve of growth.

In Turkey's favour is the Greek decision to increase its levy on foreign
visitors from under pounds 5 to pounds 16. But while the beer in Bodrum is a
refreshing 50 pence a pint, Turkey is not as competitive as it was: recession in
Europe has forced other Mediterranean destinations to lower their prices to
comparable levels.

A conference of Turkish tour operators recently concluded that sand and sea were
not enough: Turkey needed to be promoted as a secular, modern democracy, not a
land of mustachioed men in fezzes riding camels.

But to the ranks of bare breasted Brits on the beach at Gumbet running out of
sun tan lotion is far more important than the image or politics of the Turkish
Republic.

"We spend 50 weeks of the year earning money," says Keith Betton of the
Association of British Travel Agents. "We're not going to let terrorists spoil
our two weeks in the sun."

- PKK guerillas intercepted four minibuses travelling near Bitlis in
south-eastern Turkey, killing 25 civilians and wounding 50 others, officials
said yesterday.

Earlier officials reported than rebel Kurds had killed eight soldiers and two
village guards in a raid on a military post in Hakkari province, near the
Iranian border.


LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            August 13, 1993, Friday

Basques wage battle of the bows to defeat terror attacks by Eta

BYLINE: Edward Owen in Madrid

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 420 words


FOR the first time since Eta, the Basque homeland and freedom organisation, was
formed 34 years ago, Basque separatists have not been enjoying the annual fiesta
in San Sebastian. Residents of the city have finally decided to show their true
colours, and so far the ''Blues'' against terrorism easily outnumber the pro-Eta
''Greens'' in what is being called the battle of the bows.

Thousands of Basque revellers are wearing blue ribbons distributed by the city
hall in protest against the kidnapping by Eta a month ago of Julio Iglesias
Zamorra, 42, an engineer. It is the biggest demonstration of disapproval of Eta
violence, which has claimed more lives in the resort than in any other part of
Spain.

Each ribbon is fashioned into an A for askatasuna, the Basque word for freedom,
in a concerted call for the release of the kidnap victim. ''This does Eta
damage. This has been the biggest mobilisation after any Eta kidnapping and it
is very important for the fight against terrorism,'' a spokesman for the
interior ministry said.

Each evening of the local fiesta that ends on Sunday, a huge rocket turns the
dark sky blue above the city's scallop-shaped bay, as a prelude to the nightly
firework display. Afterwards, as spectators adjourn to the tapas bars in the old
quarter, the narrow streets have witnessed fights started by Basque separatists
wearing green bows who have set upon those wearing blue.  ''There are not many
wearing green but there have been some incidents. There is an undercurrent of
tension,'' a police spokesman said.

Open-air bars, or txoznas, run by Basque radical parties such as Herri Batasuna,
Eta's political wing, who sport green bows and also stickers saying ''Julio,
Ordaindu !!'' (Julio, Pay Up!!) have been boycotted by the blues.

Jose Antonio Aguiriano, Madrid's local administrator, has said that any
individual wearing the green bow or showing the stickers will be arrested. He
has also ordered police to arrest any radical found putting up a poster
depicting Jose Maria Atutxa, the regional security chief, in a telescopic sight
with the threat: ''Traitor. Your days are numbered.''

Last week Senor Atutxa boasted on television that his Basque police force had
smashed an Eta fundraising gang that had hoped to raise Pounds 5 million by
extorting a ''revolutionary tax'' from local businessmen.

Since Eta became a self-styled ''clandestine revolutionary organisation'', 544
etarras have been detained while 200 have been killed. Eta has claimed 714
victims.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 21, 1993, Saturday

US Advertising campaign on terrorist attacks

BYLINE: PHIL REEVESW in Washington

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 11

LENGTH: 113 words


WASHINGTON - The United States will this week launch an advertising campaign
offering rewards of up to $ 2m (pounds 1.4m) for information leading to the
capture of suspects linked to the terrorist attack on New York's World Trade
Center, and the Lockerbie bombing, writes Phil Reeves.

An advertisement over Lockerbie has been booked by the US State Department in
this weekend's edition of USA Today, assuring informers that ''information,
rumour or suspicion'' will be treated confidentially. A second ad, scheduled for
Monday's New York Times, targets Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, a suspect in the Trade
Center bombing whom the Americans believe may be in Iraq or Pakistan.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 17, 1993, Friday

Turks 'facing threats from terror group'; Inquiry launched as restaurateur
attacked

BYLINE: DAVID CONNETT

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 453 words


DETECTIVES are investigating claims that a terrorist group is raising cash to
buy weapons by extorting money from the Turkish business community in Britain.

Police in Humberside are investigating claims that members of the terrorist
group Dev Sol are blackmailing owners of Turkish restaurants, food shops and
other businesses.

The gang, all Turkish nationals, is allegedly extorting money to finance
terrorist acts in Turkey.

The investigation was launched after a restaurant owner in Hull was attacked at
the weekend. He was approached by six men claiming to represent Dev Sol, an
extreme left-wing terrorist organisation, who demanded pounds 2,500 cash.

When he refused he was beaten and told he would be killed if he went to the
police. He was later treated in hospital for facial injuries.

Dev Sol has been responsible for a series of bombings and shootings in Turkey
since 1980. The group, which is said to have little popular support, says its
aim is to destabilise and overthrow the Turkish government.

It has claimed responsibility for a number of assassinations included the
killing of Andrew Blake, a British insurance assessor, in Istanbul in 1991. It
has also murdered dozens of Turkish police and army officers as well as two
Americans.

The Turkish government claims the group received military and financial aid from
the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, which is led by George Habash
and is believed to be behind a series of international hijackings in the 1970s.

Detective Chief Superintendent Geoffrey Ogden, of Humberside Police, who is
leading the inquiry, said: ''We have been liaising with members of the Turkish
community in Hull and surrounding areas following reports that attempts have
been made to extort money from them by other Turkish nationals from elsewhere in
the UK.

''Detectives are investigating claims that the alleged offenders purport to
represent a Turkish terrorist group known as Dev Sol, to obtain money from the
proprietors of restaurants and food outlets.''

A spokesman for Humberside police said officers were liaising with other forces,
including the Metropolitan Police, and the Home Office.

Humberside police are questioning three Hull-based Turkish men who were arrested
after the incident. North Yorkshire police arrested a fourth man in York and he
was taken to Hull yesterday.

Senior officers met worried leaders of the Turkish community at Humberside
police headquarters yesterday to reassure them and appeal for help.

The spokesman said: ''The Turkish community have been given assurances by the
police that we are taking matters very seriously and will thoroughly investigate
the allegations.''


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 17, 1993, Friday

Man held over terror attack

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 87 words


A man was remanded in custody by Bow Street magistrates, central London, in
connection with the shooting of a British soldier in an alleged terrorist attack
in 1980.

Gerard Power, 33, of Dunmurry, Belfast, appeared on an extradition warrant,
requested by German authorities, alleging the attempted murder of Steven Sims in
Osnabruck, northern Germany.

Cpl Sims, then 24 and in the Devon and Dorset Regiment, was shot five times near
his barracks but escaped serious injury. The IRA claimed responsibility.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 23, 1993

Antique dealer lived in terror of attack, court told

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 348 words


A RETIRED antique dealer lived in terror of being attacked and robbed in his
home, a court heard yesterday.

Mr Leonard Pollington, 73, barricaded himself behind doors which had several
locks and would not open to anyone unless he knew their identity. But he was
tricked into opening up by a voice pretending to be a postman with a recorded
delivery parcel requiring his signature.

Three men walked into his home and attacked and robbed him, the High Court in
Edinburgh was told.

Mr Pollington died the following day after a three-hour brain operation.

Three accused yesterday changed their plea and admitted attacking and robbing Mr
Pollington of £3000 -- a sum reduced from the original figure of £19,400 - - at
his home in Seafield Road, Dundee, on August 8 last year.

But they continued their denial of the culpable homicide of Mr Pollington, who
was said to suffer from heart disease, high blood pressure, and leukemia.

On trial are David Allison, 19, of Roseberry Place, Burnbrae; John Gilmour, 25,
of Neilsland Street; and John Halliday, 20, of Westwellbrae Crescent, all
Hamilton.

In evidence Mr Ian Hendry, 62, a semi-retired antique dealer, told the court Mr
Pollington telephoned him on the morning of August 8 to say he had been "tied
up, beaten, and robbed". Mr Hendry said he went to Seafield Road immediately
where he found Mr Pollington, who had managed to loosen his bonds. He said Mr
Pollington's colour was "ashen".

Mr Hendry, of Richmond Terrace, Dundee, said Mr Pollinton told him he was
attacked and robbed by three men after he opened the front door. They told him
that it was the postman with a parcel.

He said he noticed a large bruise on the top of Mr Pollington's head.

Dr Hamish MacCowan, of Ryehill Health Centre, Dundee, told the court Mr
Pollington visited his surgery regularly and received medication for high blood
pressure and heart trouble.

Dr MacCowan said that he did not know until after a post- mortem examination
that his patient also suffered from chronic leukemia.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            October 25, 1993, Monday

SURVIVORS TELL COURT OF TERROR DURING GUN ATTACK

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 286 words


Survivors told a court today of the terror and pandemonium when gunmen sprayed a
bookmaker's with bullets, killing five people.  A passer-by said he saw one
gunman "grinning" moments before the attack, and a RUC detective who raised the
alarm told how he fought his way through "panic-stricken" people to find dead
and wounded customers lying inside. "There was pandemonium. The whole floor was
covered in bodies. There was blood everywhere," the officer told Belfast Crown
Court.  The gunmen who attacked the Sean Graham bookmaker's on February 5 last
year killed 66-year-old James Duffin, William McManus, 54, Christy Doherty, 51,
Peter Magee, 18, and 15-year-old James Kennedy.  A Crown lawyer has alleged that
Mark William Rice, 23, - who denies aiding and abetting the five murders and the
attempted murder and wounding of two other victims - was the man who supplied
the assault rifle used in the attack.  Rice, of Leven Place, Tullycarnet,
Dundonald, was said to be a member of the Ulster Young Militants, the junior
wing of the banned loyalist Ulster Defence Association.  Five of those wounded
in the sectarian attack told the court today that one gunman sprayed the
bookmaker's with automatic gunfire before a second walked between them as they
lay on the floor and fired single shots at them, stopping at one stage to
reload.  One man, still on crutches, told how the force from the first burst of
gunfire flung him from the stool he was sitting on. Another survivor said he was
shot in both legs and arms as he lay on the floor.  A statement from a passer-by
was read to the court in which he said the first gunman "had a grin on his face
as he paused at the door".  The trial continues tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 The Press Association Limited

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                            October 26, 1993 Tuesday

TERRORIST ATTACKS FORCE MANCHESTER TO RE-EXAMINE AT INSURANCE COVER

SECTION: ARTICLE; Archive; News

LENGTH: 110  words



HIGHLIGHT: Manchester City council is poised to review its insurance cover after
terrorist attacks and five school blazes, the...


Manchester City council is poised to review its insurance cover after terrorist
attacks and five school blazes, the Manchester Evening News reports.The shake-up
would cover 47 separate policies which provide more that £1.5bn cover for
buildings, the airport and computers.IRA bombings forced insurance companies to
exclude terrorist attacks from general property cover and special extra premiums
now cost Manchester nearly £200,000 a year.Insurance Group, a small team in the
city treasurer's department manage the city cover but cannot cope with an
essential switch to 'risk management' as the key to achieving proper cover at
the lowest cost, the paper reports.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 1993 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           October 26, 1993, Tuesday

RUC anti-terrorism officers attack MI5 tactics in Northern Ireland

BYLINE: By Bill Frost

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 646 words


RUC special branch officers, the prime source of anti-terrorism intelligence in
Northern Ireland, are becoming increasingly frustrated by the high-handed
tactics of MI5 in the province.

Relations between the two branches have been soured by a dispute over the flow
of information to the anti-terrorist branch in London.

A security source said: ''MI5, who are in Northern Ireland to analyse
intelligence, have tried to clamp down on 'force to force' communications.
Security service (MI5) officers said everything should go through them. But the
RUC are not going to wear it. Force to force exchange of intelligence should be
sacrosanct.''

RUC special branch officers, who have long had a close working relationship with
the anti-terrorist branch, emphasise the need to pass information direct to
London. Any delay incurred while intelligence is ''analysed'' by MI5 could
weaken the link and, in the worst case, have disastrous consequences on the
mainland.

A year ago MI5 was charged with heading the fight against terrorism on both
sides of the sectarian divide but in Northern Ireland the RUC special branch's
primacy is clearly recognised by MI5. Information from agents and informers has
proved vital and in recent years the branch has been more successful than ever
in penetrating the IRA's network.

In public at least RUC special branch officers have accepted MI5's role in
Northern Ireland but the potential for friction was always there. The RUC branch
and military intelligence recruit agents from republican and Loyalist
organisations. In the past some special branch officers have complained that MI5
was not always willing to pass on information.

The case of Brian Nelson, a military intelligence agent within the loyalist
Ulster Defence Association, is frequently cited as a telling example of what can
go wrong under such circumstances. ''The left hand did not know what the right
was doing. More to the point, if it had it would not have approved,'' a source
said.

Nelson, who was harged with conspiracy to commit murder and possession of arms,
was jailed for ten years. His military intelligence ''handler'' told the court
that Nelson acknowledged to have saved numerous lives while working for MI5 was
''the bravest man I have ever met''.

According to one source in Belfast, MI5, under Stella Rimington, its director,
seems overconfident that the IRA can be tackled with a more comprehensive
intelligence. Officers work on a layered principle, assessing terrorist groups
from the outside, learning how they function and about the environment in which
they flourish. Only then will they focus on individual suspects. RUC special
branch officers regard the technique as an ''academic exercise rather than
operational policing''.

There is considerable resentment and suspicion that MI5 officers are determined
to take the driver's seat in Northern Ireland, having taken the leading role on
the mainland in the fight against terrorism. South of the border there is also
concern over the activities of the security service.  Last June, Albert
Reynolds, the taoiseach, was asked to investigate claims by a Galway businesman
that MI5 had recruited him to entrap members of the Irish National Liberation
Army in an elaborate sting operation.

Nial Andrews, a Fianna Fail MEP, said: ''I find it insulting that the British
security service should be recruiting Irish citizens to work as spies within our
territory. They still seem to regard Ireland as part of their domestic remit.''

Special branch officers in Northern Ireland have different concerns. ''The fact
of the matter is that we know the ground best. We were born here and we live
here,'' one source said. ''They come in from London and, no matter how good they
are, there is no substitute for being Irish in this place. It takes an Irishman
to catch an Irishman.''

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Times Newspapers Limited

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 4, 1993, Thursday

Fleeing Croats accuse UN of indifference; Bosnian Muslims capture Vares in
surprise attack, forcing exodus of 8,000 in terror

BYLINE: MARCUS TANNER in Sokolac

SECTION: EUROPEAN NEWS PAGE; Page 10

LENGTH: 594 words


THOUSANDS of Croatian refugees fleeing a surprise Muslim assault on Vares in
central Bosnia last night described scenes of panic in the town and accused UN
peace-keepers of indifference.

About 8,000 Croats drove in cars and lorries, and in some cases walked, some 40
miles across the mountains to the nearest Bosnian Serb checkpoint at Brgole,
where after several hours of waiting, they were granted sanctuary by the Bosnian
Serb authorities.

Local Catholic clergy led the flight of terrified Croats from encircling Muslim
forces. ''After our defence lines broke on Sunday there was complete panic
outside the town hall, where thousands of people were trying to get out before
the Muslims arrived,'' said Father Mato Topic.

''Thousands of people were running around not knowing where to go. There was a
lot of screaming - it was like a stampede. They ran to the church seeking help
from the clergy but we could not tell them anything.''

Fr Topic said the mass exodus started at 2am when police cars with loudhailers
drove through the streets ordering civilians to get out immediately. Three
priests volunteered to stay with the people who could not escape from the town,
while two trekked over the hills to safety in Serb-held territory with the rest
of the population.

''We were all ready to stay with the people and be sacrificed as we priests have
no families to worry about,'' he said. ''We know that the Muslims will enact a
terrible revenge for Stupni Do.'' (The village near Vares was the site of a
massacre of at least 25 Muslims by Croat soldiers last week.)

One tearful old man said he did not know what had happened to his wife and
children in the chaotic exodus. ''My wife would not leave the house without the
children,'' he said.

''The Muslims attacked us on all sides, from Tuzla in the north and from Zenica
to the west,'' said Branko Bozic, a 59-year-old pensioner. ''We had been
expecting it every day. There were intense battles in the last 10 days which got
closer and closer.''

The refugees said they were embittered by the behaviour of UN peace-keepers from
the Nordic battalion based near the town, who they said did nothing to calm the
situation or help transport Croats from the town. ''They were on the side of the
Muslims from the start. They blamed us for the killings of Muslims at Stupni Do
but said nothing about the Croat villages burnt one by one by the Muslims.''

''Central Bosnia will remain entirely without Croats if this goes on,'' another
man said. He said Croats fear the advancing Muslims will shortly turn their
attention to the few remaining Croat-held strongholds in central Bosnia in
Vitez, Busovaca and Novi Travnik. These towns are already encircled by Muslims,
and there is little chance that the outnumbered Bosnian Croat forces can relieve
the siege.

They said they feared being left without anywhere to live now that Croatia was
full up with refugees from the Serb-held Krajina region in Croatia and earlier
waves of Croat and Muslim refugees from Bosnia. ''We are paying the price for
the way the world has supported ethnic cleansing in Bosnia,'' one said.

LONDON - Peace talks between Croatia's authorities and Serbian rebels broke down
yesterday, setting the stage for fresh armed confrontation between the two
sides, writes Tony Barber.

The negotiations at a Norwegian mountain hotel foundered on Croatia's insistence
that the Serbs recognise Croatian sovereignty over them, and on the Serbs'
insistence that their breakaway region of Krajina is independent.


LOAD-DATE: November 04, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 Independent Print Ltd

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 19, 1993

MAJOR OFFERS ULSTER PEACE PLAN: RALLIES DEMAND END TO TERRORIST ATTACKS;
'Back to basics' strategy and 49,000 jobless fall pushed aside for Northern
Ireland

BYLINE: MICHAEL WHITE, LARRY ELLIOTT, OWEN BOWCOTT AND JOE JOYCE

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words


Main points:

- A Criminal Justice Bill will abolish the right of silence, introduce 'stop and
search' powers, outlaw ticket touts and give police powers to evict squatters,
arrest hunt saboteurs and stop 'raves'.

- Police forces to be reduced from 43 to 30.

- Many health and safety regulations will be swept away.

- MPs will be given a free vote on a Sunday Trading Bill

Major offers to table peace plan after he puts Ulster at top of political agenda

JOHN MAJOR upstaged his own domestic agenda for the second time in a week when
he used the Queen's Speech debate in the Commons yesterday to promote the peace
process in Northern Ireland rather than the Government's "back to basics"
programme or the day's 49,000 drop in the number of jobless.

In the latest twist of semi-public negotiation with the Irish government and the
political parties in the province, the Prime Minister announced that London is
prepared to table its own comprehensive proposals for a constitutional
settlement, in weeks if necessary, if it would hasten the resumption of round
table talks with or without Paisleyite participation.

That amounts to a calculated injection of flexibility into Whitehall's previous
position which was to get all - or most - of the parties to resume talks before
unveiling its ideas. But Mr Major coupled it with renewed warnings to the IRA
and loyalist paramilitaries, and their political sympathisers, that the violence
must stop.

"A statement of intent is not enough," said Mr Major in an apparent reference to
the unpublished Hume-Adams plan. But he also denounced the view that "the dead
must endlessly be avenged" and warned Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionists (DUP),
the most intransigent Protestant party, that "no party or organisation can
exercise a veto on progress".

As tens of thousands of Protestants and Catholics in 16 towns and cities across
Northern Ireland joined the largest peace rallies seen in recent years, Mr Major
appeared to downgrade his legislative programme for the new 1993/94 session of
parliament when he told the Commons that the search for peace "must remain at
the head of our priorities".

The Queen's Speech programme, unveiled amid the traditional rituals, contains no
surprises, with sweeping changes of the police and criminal justice system
sharing pride of place with a controversial plans to deregulate wide areas of
business from health, safety and other constraints. The theme of the 13 bills is
"practical problems addressed in a practical way".

The day's real surprise was the unexpectedly sharp drop in unemployment - down
49,000 to 2,855,100 - a day after the October inflation figures fell from 1.8 to
1.4 per cent. It enabled Mr Major to blunt John Smith's scathing attack on his
autumn theme of "back to basics" - a concept which, after 14 years in power, the
Labour leader denounced as "the oldest trick in the book: create a diversion,
search out a scapegoat, put the blame on someone else".

The Department of Employment published figures showing the biggest drop in
people out of work for 41 2 years . The improvement affected every region.

The number unemployed for more that a year also fell by 10,000, and the number
of unfilled vacancies rose by 7,100.

The Employment Secretary, David Hunt, said the figures were a testimony to the
flexible and deregulated labour market created by the Government in the 1980s.
Officials indicated that numbers going into full time education might have
affected the totals but the trend appears to be downwards.

Paradoxically, the better news on inflation may encourage the Chancellor,
Kenneth Clarke, to risk raising taxes in his November 30 Budget.

Mr Major's careful words on Northern Ireland followed an encouraging response
from his Irish counterpart, Albert Reynolds, and foreign minister, Dick Spring,
to Mr Major's Guildhall speech on Monday, which also saw a last-minute injection
of Anglo-Irish diplomacy dominate headlines previously expected to be
basics-orientated.

"The two governments are going through a process of borrowing each other's
language," said one senior official who described the process as sending signals
to maintain momentum ahead of meetings between the two premiers next month. In
fact, there is some frustration in Whitehall that Dublin still avoids spelling
out its precise terms for abandoning its constitutional claim to the North.

While many MPs - including Mr Smith and the Liberal Democrats' leader, Paddy
Ashdown - endorse Mr Major's efforts, others believe it will end in tears, not
least because the IRA can never compromise its demands for a united Ireland.

Doubts about alleged secret contacts between the Government and the IRA were
given a fresh twist yesterday by the republican leader, Martin McGuinness. In
his first public comments on the affair, he claimed that he had had "direct and
protracted contact" with a government representative about the province's future
earlier this year. They ended when an understanding with the Ulster Unionist
Party rescued Mr Major from defeat over the Maastricht Bill in July.

"This contact was at an official level and no preconditions were set upon it,"
Mr McGuinness said. "Sinn Fein is ready to engage in talks at any time to create
the conditions in which a peace process can be constructed and a political
settlement reached."

British ministers and informed Tory MPs adamantly deny the claim and Mr
McGuinness, once jailed for IRA membership, refuses to name the government
representative he allegedly met.

What the Prime Minister called "the palpable mood for peace" was manifest in
yesterday's marches. Organised by the Irish Congress of Trade Unions in the wake
of the IRA's Shankill Road bombing and subsequent loyalist retaliatory
massacres, the scale of support surprised even the organisers.

Terry Carlin, an ICTU official, said he was overwhelmed. In Belfast city centre
between 30,000 and 50,000 gathered to observe a minute's silence for victims of
the Troubles. In Londonderry at least 5,000 heard calls for an end to violence.

A "peace phoneline" set up by the two leading newspapers in Belfast in the last
two days has attracted well over 100,000 calls. The Newsletter, read almost
exclusively by Protestants, and the Irish News, catering for the Catholic
community, said that at one stage calls were coming in at the rate of 7,000 an
hour.

Earlier, most of the 340,000 schoolchildren in Northern Ireland stood for a
two-minute silence at special peace services in their schools.

In the present fast-moving atmosphere, Mr Spring said in Dublin that he hoped to
meet the UUP leader, James Molyneaux, in the coming weeks. It also emerged that
Mr Reynolds will travel across the border to Londonderry to meet the SDLP
leader, John Hume, today. He is also expected to have discussions with the
Northern Ireland Secretary, Sir Patrick Mayhew.

Answering questions in the Dail, Mr Spring told deputies that the Hume-Adams
initiative had "profoundly altered the climate for discussion" and crystallised
public hopes for peace in Northern Ireland.  Asked what required the initiative
to be kept confidential from the Unionist community, he said it was in the
interests of peace.

Mr Spring revealed that when he met President Clinton in Washington earlier this
week, he was "extremely well informed and supportive" of the attempts to develop
a peace process. The question of the US sending a peace envoy to Northern
Ireland was not relevant at the moment.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 1993

TRAVELLERS FEAR CHUNNEL TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: REBECCA SMITHERS, TRANSPORT CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 499 words


THREE out of four people are unlikely to travel through the Channel Tunnel,
according to a survey which reveals that prospective users fear terrorist
attacks and the spread of diseases such as rabies.

Only 23 per cent of the 932 adults questioned in the poll by market analysts
Mintel expected to use the pounds 10 billion Anglo-French link, even though the
majority conceded that it will be more convenient than ferry services.

Half the respondents said they were worried the tunnel would be a terrorist
target, while more than half feared it would introduce rabies and other diseases
to Britain.

Patrizia Neviani-Aston, Mintel's leisure analyst, said: "We think it is mainly a
fear of the unknown which puts people off the idea of using the tunnel."

Ticket prices could also be an influence, with nearly half the respondents
believing the tunnel would be more expensive than the ferries.

However, Eurotunnel said yesterday the survey was out of date as it had been
carried out in June, before the launch of its advertising campaign which
explains the service.

A spokeswoman pointed out that other surveys had shown that 50 per cent of ferry
users said they would use the tunnel. Its ticket prices will not be published
until January.

Mintel concedes that some respondents may have been influenced by "tabloid
scaremongering" over terrorism and safety issues. An electrical fire broke out
during routine safety tests this month in which a section of tunnel was damaged
after 25,000 volts were transmitted down the main overhead cable.

Eurotunnel has expressed concern about what it claims is a "disinformation
campaign" by unknown parties determined to sabotage the launch of the tunnel's
services.

Mintel said that overall, it found "the tunnel was not considered to be either
safer or less safe than the ferries", with the safety issue most important to
women and young people.

The most likely users of the tunnel are expected to be affluent male businessmen
living in London. Only 17 per cent of women indicated that they are likely to
use it.

Mintel said: "If the Channel Tunnel services can deliver in terms of efficiency
and competitive pricing in the long term, both the ferry operators and airlines
will suffer huge losses of market share.  However, the tunnel must perform in
its initial years for this to become a reality sooner rather than later."

British Rail plans to start running intercontinental services through the tunnel
from next summer. Mintel believes BR's services will not run until 1995 at the
earliest and will not operate at full capacity for many years because of delays
to the high-speed rail link between London and the tunnel entrance at
Folkestone.

A service for cars and coaches, Le Shuttle, is due to start around the time of
the tunnel's official opening on May 6. It aims to take 50 per cent of the car
and coach markets in its first year, and plans to expand the market by 10-15 per
cent a year.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 28, 1993

Muslim gunmen suspected of terrorist attacks in Cairo

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 106 words


CAIRO: Suspected Muslim militants killed three people in a raid on a Cairo
jewellery shop last night, hours after eight Austrians and eight Egyptians were
wounded in a bomb and gun attack on a tourist bus. Jewellery shops, which are
usually owned by Christians, are often the targets of Muslim militants. Two of
the Austrians wounded in the earlier attack near an ancient mosque were said to
be seriously hurt -- a 25-year-old man with a bullet in the brain and a 25-year
-old woman with a badly wounded leg. The Muslim militants' 18-month campaign of
violence to overthrow the Government has wrecked Egypt's tourist industry.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           January 8, 1994, Saturday

Crowbar attack on Olympic skater strikes terror into celebrity sports circuit

BYLINE: Ben Macintyre in New York

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 551 words


WHEN an unidentified man brandishing a crowbar attacked Nancy Kerrigan, the
figure skater, in Detroit on Thursday night, he succeeded in bruising her right
knee, but he may have failed to destroy her chances of competing in the Winter
Olympic Games, as seems to have been his intention.

Kerrigan, 24, America's top female figure skater, was reported to be shaken by
the attack, and her attacker escaped. He was observed filming the skater with a
video-camera and sweating profusely as she practised at Cobo Hall rink. ''It
could have been a lot worse,'' she told ABC television news.  ''It is not the
most important thing to skate. If I cannot compete (in the Olympics) I will have
to deal with it.'' Last night she announced that she would not take part in the
US figure-skating championship, at which she was expected to qualify for the US
Winter Olympics team, but officials said she might still be able to participate
in the event next month in Lillehammer.

But the damage done to a nervous sporting world, concerned about security after
the knife attack on Monica Seles in Hamburg last April, may be far more
critical. Oddly, for an industry which combines celebrity exposure with extreme
competitiveness, sport has usually avoided the stalkers and killers that have
become a grim, accepted aspect of the celebrity circuit.

Before the attack on Seles, the last attack on a sports figure was in 1949 when
Eddie Waitkus, a Philadelphia baseball star, was shot and wounded by an
infatuated and deranged teenager an episode that inspired the film, The Natural.

Athletes have hitherto been largely able to avoid bodyguards and round-the-clock
protection, usually remaining accessible to fans in a way that pop stars and
politicians would not contemplate. But the attacks on Seles and Kerrigan are
likely to change that, prompting not just tighter security but, inevitably, a
more distant relationship with sports fans.

''This could be the end of the autograph in America, of fans being able to reach
out and touch their athletes,'' Mike Moran of the US Olympic Committee said
after Thursday's attack. ''It is bound to have a grave effect. Athletes do not
want to be off-limits to the rest of the world, but it is something we all want
to think about.''

As athletes have gradually been transformed into show business personalities,
along with multi-million-dollar sponsorship contracts and year-round exposure,
so the danger of stalking has increased dramatically.  Two-time Olympic
figure-skating champion Katarina Witt, for example, received more than 35,000
letters after she won the gold medal in Sarajevo in 1984, most of them adoring,
some of them intimidating. A man is serving a 37-month jail sentence for
threatening Witt. Tonya Harding, the figure skater, was forced to abandon an
event in Portland, Oregon, last year after a man threatened to bomb the
ice-rink.

Many American athletes have already started taking extra security precautions.
Cal Ripken, Orioles baseball player, elected to stay anonymously in a separate
hotel from his team mates after being accosted by an outraged fan. Other
sportsmen and women have personal bodyguards.

The US Olympic Committee is expected to discuss tighter security measures when
it meets in Durham, North Carolina, next week.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            January 17, 1994, Monday

SEVEN QUIZZED AFTER TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK FOILED

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 414 words


Seven men were being questioned tonight after police and troops foiled a major
IRA bomb attack on a village police station in Northern ireland near the border
with the Republic.  They were arrested in raids after terrorists abandoned a
deadly 15Olb Mark 15 mortar near a security checkpoint a mile outside Clogher in
Co Tyrone.  The bomb was primed and ready for firing from a trailer being towed
by a car, but the driver stopped and ran off across fields when he spotted
security forces ahead.  Police believe the target was their station in Clogher
which was hit before by a so-called Barrack Buster bomb. Two RUC officers shot
dead by the IRA just before Christmas in the neighbouring village of
Fivemiletown were based there.  The Mark 15, one of the Provisionals' most
powerful bombs, has been used time and again with devastating affect. Four
police and military installations were badly damaged in attacks between March
and December last year.  Just hours after the latest bombing bid, the seven men
- thought to be from the Tyrone area - were taken in for questioning by
detectives at Gough Barracks, Armagh.  Meanwhile Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick
Mayhew has dismissed a so-called "Doomsday" plan which loyalist paramilitaries
say they have drawn up should Britain pull out of Northern Ireland.  The UDA
claims the scenario would involve "surrendering" parts of Northern Ireland where
nationalists are in the majority and the "ethnic cleansing" of Catholics in
areas where they were in a minority. Social history lecturer and peace
campaigner Dr Liam Kennedy of Queen's University, Belfast claimed the plans were
based on research he carried out eight years ago. He accused the paramilitaries
of manipulating his book - "Two Ulsters - A case for Repartition", published in
l986 - for violent ends.  The UDA plan is strikingly similar to political
options and maps he produced at the time.  Dr Kennedy said: "What surprises me
is that so many people have been taken in by it and that the media world should
carry these kind of statements without subjecting them to at least preliminary
scrutiny." The Rev Ian Paisley, leader of the Democratic Unionists, said the UDA
plan was the result of the Downing Street peace declaration, which he claimed
had strengtened the IRA's position.  He said: "The British government has brough
about a situation of instability and fear in the whole community. If we hadn't
had their declaration we would not have had this document."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           January 22, 1994, Saturday

ROCKET ATTACK TERRORISTS HOLD FAMILY HOSTAGE

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 184 words


Terrorists narrowly missed hitting a security force Land Rover in a rocket
attack on the outskirts of west Belfast today.  The attackers held a mother and
her four children - the youngest only 15 months old - hostage in their home for
almost 15 hours before staging the ambush in the Old Colin area of the Poleglass
estate. A gang fired the rocket from the garden of the house at the last of
three Land Rovers passing by at the time.  The missile, fired from a hand-held
launcher, missed and smashed into a tree. Nobody was hurt.  Local politicians
condemned the IRA for the latest attack - the seventh time in six months that
the IRA has held a family in that area captive.  Social Democratic and Labour
Party councillor Hugh Lewsley said: "Is this the clarification Sinn Fein are
giving to the Downing Street peace declaration?  "Not only was this an attack on
the security forces but yet another on the people of this area.  "Normally there
are many schoolchildren standing about at this time waiting to play football and
anyone of them could have been killed. It's an absolute disgrace."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            January 28, 1994, Friday

TERROR ATTACK DEATH

SECTION: Page 7

LENGTH: 54 words


A MAN was shot dead last night in a terrorist attack on a house in Ballymena,
County Antrim.

Police said he was not a member of the security forces.

A woman, believed to be his wife, was taken to hospital with a gunshot wound to
the neck. Her small daughter was admitted to hospital, unhurt but suffering from
shock.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            February 6, 1994, Sunday

HAIR RAISER'S TABLE TERROR;
WOMAN DIES OF HEART ATTACK AFTER MISTAKING A WIG FOR A RAT

BYLINE: Steve Riches

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 147 words


YOU'LL NEVER BELIEVE WHAT THEY ARE DOING AROUND THE WORLD

They did WHAT!

SHORT-sighted Ellen Moore had a heart attack and died after mistaking her
husband's wig for a rat. "I sure wish I'd never put it on the table," said
Rodney Moore, in Tennessee. "It looked real, like it was about to eat the bowl
of nuts."


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1994 MGN Ltd.

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               February 22, 1994

Terror attacks on lone commuters

BYLINE: David Taylor

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 467 words


COMMUTERS are being advised not to travel in empty first class carriages
following a series of terrifying attacks on suburban trains.

Police issued the warning after three travellers were assaulted and robbed on
evening trains out of London. In one attack, a commuter travelling alone in a
first class carriage on the 7.53pm from Waterloo last Thursday was attacked by a
gang of six black youths who tied a plastic bag over his head and punched him
repeatedly.

The Woking businessman suffered a fractured cheekbone, cuts and bruises while
his attackers, who boarded the train at Clapham Junction, stole his mobile
telephone, credit cards and £300 in cash.

They then went on rob another passenger in a second class compartment of his
wallet.

Two days earlier, a group of four men armed with knives beat up a commuter on
the 9.35pm Waterloo to Farnham train. The victim, from West Byfleet, was punched
and kicked by the robbers who made off with his lap-top computer, wallet and
mobile telephone.

A British Transport Police spokesman warned commuters to avoid empty carriages.

He said: 'People have paid their money to travel first class, but we advise them
to stick to carriages with other people.

'Wherever possible, travellers should also try to conceal expensive telephones
or computers. The ferocity of the attacks have taken us all by surprise.'

Three men have been arrested and bailed following Thursday's attack.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               February 24, 1994

MY ATTACK TERROR IN CARJACK ALLEY, W12

BYLINE: Martin Delgado

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1240 words


IN THE rush-hour crawl along the Westway, a new sound can be heard - the
clicking of central locking systems as motorists cocoon themselves in their
vehicles against carjacking, the latest unwanted import from America.

The number of incidents in the last two weeks in one small area of Shepherd's
Bush has now risen to 16.

Two more attacks occurred there yesterday when car phones were snatched as
police investigated the mugging of BBC accountant Joanna Ledwidge, who was
punched, bitten and butted by two youths as she waited to join the A40.

Mrs Ledwidge told today of how other motorists and a bus full of passengers
ignored her pleas for help as the thugs set about her. She said she had
continually sounded her car horn, but nobody came to her aid.

She said: 'It was a very frightening attack. I usually keep my car doors locked,
but on this occasion I forgot.

'This experience reinforces the need for people to be vigilant and make sure
thei doors are locked and valuables are kept in the boot.' A senior accountant
at the BBC's Television Centre, she said both attackers confronted her through
the front passenger door, taking it in turns to bite, butt and punch her as she
fought them off.

One police officer said: 'She fought them bravely, but she could have done with
a show of public spirit from the people around her. It might have helped detain
the two individuals who attacked her.'

Last night at 7.35, exactly 24 hours after Mrs Ledwidge was attacked, it was
easy to see why the carjackers find the side roads leading on to the A40 so
attractive.

Despite the three lanes, the traffic is either slow-moving or stationary as
thousands head out of London in the evening rush hour.

Many drive expensive cars and all too often carry the gadget every carjacker
wants - a mobile telephone, their luminous keypads clearly visible from several
yards away in the darkness.

A lot of motorists are also alone in their car, with a handbag or brief case
lying on the front passenger seat.

However, there are signs that motorists are beginning to become aware of the
danger.

A businessman edging out into the Westway traffic from Bloemfontein Road had a
copy of last night's Evening Standard on the passenger seat. Looking at the
front page story about the carjackings, he turned to engage the car's central
locking system.

A month ago, public relations consultant David May almost fell victim to the car
muggers.

Mr May, 45, of Camden Town, was driving along the Westway in his Volkswagen
Corrado in heavy traffic about 3.40 in the afternoon. 'As I hit the tailback, a
little voice in my head said 'Lock your door.'

'I had a car phone below the dashboard and a bag on the front seat. About 75
yards from the junction with Old Oak Road, I noticed two men in their twenties
standing at the bus stop just before the traffic lights. I was the first car in
the queue as the lights turned red.

'Suddenly there was a hell of a jerk on the passenger door with on of the guys
yanking away at it. Then he realised it wasn't going to open and he calmly
walked away. His mate walked after him. I was pretty shaken.' Today, one of the
officers investigating the attacks appealed to motorists to be more streetwise.

He said: 'If you stick a mobile phone or a bag on the front seat, you're as good
as saying to the mugger, 'Look, there's £100. Take it.''

Detectives have arrested two youths in connection with the spate of robberies.

Senior officers, alarmed by the sudden outburst of violence against motorists,
decided to devote more resources to blitzing the carjack gangs.

Officers are now patrolling the area and the arrested pair were held close to
the busy trunk road where carjackings are running at the rate of one-a-day.

But police stress several other carjackers are still being hunted and urged the
public to continue to be vigilant.

They believe as few as half a dozen youths are responsible for most of the
attacks and that crack addicts may be creaming off the profits.

Officers have advised staff at the BBC's White City headquarters, which is next
to the Westway, to avoid the nearside lane where the carjackers tend to strike
most.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           February 27, 1994, Sunday

WOMAN, 91, IN THUG ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: Page 21

LENGTH: 216 words


POLICE were last night hunting two vicious thugs who attacked a frail
91-year-old woman in her home.

Her ordeal began when they broke into her house in the Cathburn Road area of
Wishaw, Lanarkshire.

One of the thugs threatened terrified Christina Currie with a wooden club.

As they ransacked her house in a 20-minute orgy of destruction, the pensioner
pleaded: "I hope you're not going to murder me." Petrified Christina stayed
motionless as the two men burst into her bedroom.

They smashed windows in the back of her house before breaking in the back door.

While still in her house the raiders started fighting and one of them, police
believe, was badly injured.

The man leading the hunt for the attackers, Detective Sergeant David Aitchieson,
said last night: "This was a cowardly and callous attack on a vulnerable old
lady.

"She was distressed, but was otherwise uninjured." He went on: "Judging by the
blood we found at the scene at least one of the thugs was badly injured.

"I'd appeal for any member of the public who knows of someone with a fresh
injury to contact Wishaw police." Police also want to trace four men seen
drinking in the grounds of Morningside Primary School shortly before the
incident.

Christina was last night being comforted by relatives.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 10, 1994

MPs hear of mortar attack as they vote to renew anti-terrorism laws

BYLINE: Stuart Trotter, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 695 words


ANTI-terrorism laws were renewed by a majority of 86 in the Commons last night
after a bitter debate -- as Home Secretary Michael Howard brought news to the
House of the terrorist mortar attack near Heathrow airport.

Labour forced a vote on the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act
(Continuance) Order, amid Tory taunts that its opposition to the measure
amounted to "playing party politics" with the issue.

As the debate was ending, Mr Howard made what he described as "a sad
announcement" to the House that "in the past hour it appears that five mortars
have been fired from the back of a vehicle towards Heathrow airport".

He told MPs: "I don't know whether that incident is supposed to send some signal
to this House as we conclude our debate on these matters. But if it is, I know
there is only one conclusion which the House can responsibly take.

"We know in unequivocal terms that the Association of Chief Police Officers
consider this Act in its present form to be essential in the fight against
terrorism."

MPs had heard many appeals over the last few days and during the debate for
unity across the House, Mr Howard said.

To Tory cheers, he insisted: "There could be no more appropriate moment for
displaying that unity than in the aftermath of the attack which I have just
announced."

Earlier, opening debate on the measure, which was approved by 328 votes to 242,
Mr Howard accused Labour's leadership of trying to "placate the left wing" by
demanding a review of the legislation.

Shadow Home Secretary Tony Blair claimed that the Minister was content to let
the Act divide the parties because he saw political advantage in it.

Mr Howard told Mr Blair. "It is one thing to loathe terrorism. It is another
thing to translate that loathing into practical action. Those of us on this side
are prepared to take that action."

Labour especially dislikes the powers in the present Act to exclude British
citizens living in Northern Ireland from the mainland and detain suspected
terrorists for up to seven days without obtaining a court ruling.

Tory MP Lady Olga Maitland (Sutton and Cheam) accused Mr Blair of not genuinely
wishing to stop terrorism, and of shedding "crocodile tears".

She said: "The protection of law-abiding citizens should be put before the
arguments over civil liberties of the terrorists -- what about the civil
liberties of the victims?"

Liberal Democrat Home Affairs spokesman Robert Maclennan said Mr Blair's call
for an inquiry was "completely untimely".

He added: "It would send precisely the wrong signals to Sinn Fein, who are
plainly not taking steps to distance themselves from the military wing, who are
rejecting the opportunity to pick up the challenge that has been put to them by
SDLP leader John Hume to renounce terrorism."

He urged Labour to reconsider: "The House and the country would be reassured if
they could accept that is necessary to give them our endorsement for another
year -- in which great political developments may alter the face of terrorism in
our country."

Earlier, Labour leader John Smith declared himself dissatisfied with the inquiry
by Downing Street into who leaked news of private talks on the Act between
himself and the Prime Minister.

He said in a statement: "Frankly it is hard to believe that this inquiry carried
out in little more than 24 hours, could have been as thorough and comprehensive
as such a serious breach of confidence merited and that I requested.

"I remain deeply disturbed both at the leak and at Mr Major's failure to
discover its source. Mr Major should hold a proper inquiry or put arrangements
in place to make sure that the confidence of any future discussions is properly
safeguarded.

Both the Home Office and Northern Ireland Office denied they were responsible
for the leak, but Mr Peter Mandelson (Hartlepool -- Lab.) said it was scarcely
believable that the Home Office was not implicated since Mr Howard was quoted in
a Sunday newspaper.

However, the Home Secretary told MPs that neither he, his officals or special
advisers were responsible for "planting" the story.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 11, 1994

AIRPORT ATTACK PROMPTS SECURITY REVIEW;
Patrick Wintour reports on Ulster Unionist MPs' calls for stronger judicial
powers to curb terrorists after Heathrow attack

BYLINE: PATRICK WINTOUR

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 653 words


ULSTER Unionist MPs are to seek Commons approval for tighter anti-terrorist laws
in the Criminal Justice Bill in the wake of the latest IRA incident.

Many changes have been sought by the Royal Ulster Constabulary since last May
and could win the support of pro-Unionist Tory backbench MPs who want the
Government to adopt a tougher security stance.

David Trimble, Ulster Unionist MP for Upper Bann, will press for the changes at
the bill's report stage next month. He said he wanted the Interception of
Communications Act 1985 amended to allow products of phone taps to be used in
evidence. At present they cannot be used in court.

The Northern Ireland (Emergency Provisions) Act 1991 should be amended to make
admissible statements given to authorised investigators appointed by the RUC,
specialising in financial racketeering, he said.

There should be a new offence of failing to give evidence to authorised
investigators. Mr Trimble believes this would make the godfathers more
vulnerable. First-hand hearsay statements in terrorist cases should be
admissible in Diplock court cases, as they are in civil cases. Last week Mr
Trimble justified the proposal to the standing committee on the bill on the
grounds that "there is a wide range of cases when people who make statements to
the police in terrorist cases will sometimes say things on condition that they
are not included in a formal statement".

He also called for consolidation of the Northern Ireland (Emergency Provisions)
Legislation with the Prevention of Terrorism Act, in part so that mainland
anti-racketeering laws were as tough as in the province.

Other changes sought by the RUC last May include abolition of the right to
silence so that, in certain circumstances, it would be an offence for detainees
not to answer questions. The right to silence changes in the bill only allow the
court to draw inferences from the failure to answer, a change introduced in
Northern Ireland in 1988.

Mr Trimble called for identity cards in Northern Ireland and suggested the
Dublin government improve its intelligence co-operation with the RUC. He said:
"Once a terrorist gets over the border the line goes dead. There is no
intelligence co-operation.

"The outstanding fact is that the police in Italy, France, Germany, and Spain
have been able to defeat their terrorist organisations. We have not."

The RUC has also been looking for a new regime within the Diplock courts to
encourage witnesses. This would include the right to withhold name and address
and to give evidence from behind a screen or by live TV link; and a statutory
witness reward and protection scheme.

So far the Government has rejected outright the proposal that it should be an
offence to refuse to talk during an interview, but ministers have said they are
still consulting with the RUC about giving greater powers to the authorised
investigators and to the admissibility of their evidence.

Overall, the Government remains reluctant to introduce internment, arguing that
it would be counter-productive by creating martyrs and be unacceptable to
Dublin.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, the Northern Ireland Secretary, insisted yesterday that no
security measure had been withheld or put into abeyance pending a Sinn Fein
response to the Downing Street Declaration.

However, in the Commons recently John Major said he was sure the Irish
government would agree to "enhanced" security measures if the IRA rejected the
declaration.

The Prime Minister will now come under pressure from his own backbenchers,
mainly on the integrationist right, to start to enhance those measures.

- An off-duty RUC officer was shot dead in front of his wife last night while
watching races in the bar at Dunmore greyhound stadium in Belfast. Two gunmen
escaped in a car.

The dead man was believed to be PC Jackie Hagan, aged 33, of Doagh, Co Antrim.


LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 11, 1994

Terrorists attack Heathrow again

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 675 words


HEATHROW came under mortar fire again last night, the second attack on the
airport within 36 hours.

A number of incendiaries were fired in the vicinity of Terminal Four but it
appeared none had detonated. Damage appeared to be minimal.

Heathrow spokeswoman Anita Newcourt said that it looked like the "same as last
night (when the IRA launched a mortar attack). Some incendiaries have been
fired. There has been very little damage."

The attack took place only hours after Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams had warned
that the "conflict was ongoing" and there would be "some spectaculars to remind
the outside world".

London Ambulance Service said there were no reports of any injuries.

A spokesman said they received reports of an incident involving three incendiary
devices and two suspicious packages at Terminal Four.

A spokesman said the service was alerted at 12.11am when it was told of "an act
of aggression" at Heathrow.

Five ambulances, two paramedic units and a command unit have been sent to the
airport. Four fire engines were also standing by.

There were reports of three unexploded mortars lying in the car park at Terminal
Four.

A spokeswoman for Hilton Hotel at Heathrow said police telephoned the hotel
shortly after midnight asking them to check the roof for anything suspicious.
She said nothing was found.

Terminal Four was evacuated as a full-scale alert went into operation.

Dozens of police were sealing off the terminal and closing roads in the
vicinity.

The southern runway was closed down, but the northern runway remained open.

Security services were alerted shortly after midnight when there were reports of
a "bang or thud" close to the terminal.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said there was no indication there were any warnings.

The latest alert comes after the IRA fired four mortars packed with high
explosives at the airport on Wednesday evening from the back of a stolen car
left in a hotel car park. They did not detonate.

Security force sources in Belfast had warned their counterparts in London that
at least two IRA active service units were believed to have set up in safe
houses in England and were planning to use long-range mortars and possibly the
newly-developed horizontal mortar, which has claimed several lives in Northern
Ireland.

Meanwhile police and airport officials defended their decision not to close
Heathrow on Wednesday evening -- although eight coded warnings of the impending
IRA attack had been received by six news organisations.

Mortar bombs, shot from a hotel car park and probably launched by a timing
device, were said by airport officials quoted by Reuter to have missed an Air
France flight by just minutes. The runway affected remained open for 44 minutes.

The mortar shells failed to explode but even tiny shards of flying shrapnel
could have caused a catastrophe. Semtex was found on the runway.

The IRA, admitting responsibility for the attack in a statement to the media in
Dublin, claimed it had given specific warnings nearly an hour before the attack.

The operation had been carefully prepared. The Nissan Micra from which the bombs
were launched was stolen in Kilburn on Saturday night. Genuine number plates
from a similar car were used. The car was set alight after the attack, creating
an inferno in the hotel car park.

Commander David Tucker, head of Britain's anti-terrorist police, told a news
conference: "We were very lucky none of the four (mortars) did detonate. We
don't know why they didn't. There were very clear traces of explosive material
being spilled on to the runway."

The British Airline Pilots Association demanded a full-scale inquiry. Its
general secretary, Mr Chris Darke, said he was "alarmed" that no fewer than 23
planes had taken off during the 44 minutes before the runway had been closed.
It was "intolerable" that lives had been put at risk.

Five tubes had been found in the back of the Nissan, whose paint had been
stripped off in the fierce heat.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The launch pad: the burnt-out Nissan Micra used by the IRA reveals the
tubes used to fire the mortars.Picture: PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 15, 1994, Tuesday

Arming the nation's airways; A military presence at Heathrow could deter
terrorist attacks, argues Anthony Farrar-Hockley

BYLINE: ANTHONY FARRAR-HOCKLEY

SECTION: COMMENT PAGE; Page 17

LENGTH: 1203 words


SHOCKING events upset judgements. Hence, some confusion concerning the threat
and its consequences following the successive IRA mortar attacks on Heathrow
over the past few days. Though flying has been resumed, uncertainty appears to
persist, at any rate in the minds of some commentators, as to the fundamentals
of the threat, and no less among the various components of the security forces
as to whether the armed services - essentially the Army - should become involved
in protecting airports and if so, to what extent and under whose control.

The threat is manifestly persistent, but unlikely to extend to knocking aircraft
out of the air or even striking at those taxiing with a load of passengers;
after all, some might be American. The IRA recognises that indiscriminate acts
of terror are counter-productive; a lesson it has learnt principally by its
incompetence. The possibility of massacres at airports cannot, therefore, be
ruled out. Even so, security measures should be aimed primarily at preventing
the use of weapons that will cause damage to property, including aircraft and
traffic facilities, rather than people.

Immediately, the focus is upon mortar attacks. This has proved a successful
weapon because multiple barrels, fired simultaneously, have thrown bombs
successfully across the perimeter fence. The type of bombs projected are
inherently inaccurate - thus increasing the random danger - but would not
substantially damage reinforced concrete. Parked aircraft are another matter;
shrapnel strikes on jumbo jets could result in huge repair bills.

IRA mortars are crude in construction. Ranges are likely to remain short and
their power limited. This means that the firing base will be within a few
thousand yards of an airfield perimeter. Even so, this would appear at a glance
to create a considerable potential launching zone round the extensive
circumference of a major airport.

Fortunately, a good deal of this zone lacks that potential in an area such as
Heathrow. For example, the greater number of dwellings, shops and offices do not
offer the necessary space for bomb flight, strength of flooring or secrecy of
operation. The number of open spaces, including car parks, may be numerous, but
modern scanning devices offer a means of raising the probability of discovering
preparations for an attack at an early stage.

A weakness of our situation is that the public are incurious. Lorries - rather
better and thus to date preferred as launching vehicles to cars - are sometimes
left on side roads for several days, without being remarked on except as a
parking nuisance. But mobile police patrols can cope with this problem - and
will do so more readily if members of the public make a point of reporting
abandoned vehicles and, indeed, any other matters that make them suspicious.

At root, much of the danger of mortar attacks at Glasgow, Manchester or
Birmingham, and other major airports, will be reduced by measures which help the
police to reduce crime generally. The etching of car numbers on windows, even
the locking of car doors, would make life more difficult for thieves, terrorist
or otherwise. On balance, therefore, given detailed study and the appliance of
surveillance technology, the risk of mortar attacks on airports will diminish
considerably. The problem of acts of terrorism at these and other busy, complex
and expensive sites remains, however.

The IRA will continue to operate wherever risks are low and success offers high
cost to the state and wide publicity. The range of counter-measures planned must
thus be widened. Notwithstanding the use of advanced security equipment, some of
these measures will involve, essentially, additional manpower. This raises the
question as to whether troops should be drafted to assist the police in these
duties.

In one sense, the Army is already well trained for such work as a result of
operations in Northern Ireland over 25 years, and this includes the ability to
contribute its own unique skills to joint police and military operations.

Moreover, it has learnt a good deal about the sensitivities of the police as the
primary upholders of law and order. Chief constables in Great Britain need not
become alarmed over such matters.

But the numbers of soldiers are diminishing. If they are to be employed in this
way, the Government must stop further reductions in the service, or must provide
funds for additional police manpower.

The very fact of deploying the military at a major airport such as Heathrow
would be a deterrent to terrorists, as the IRA is very well aware. Moreover, the
Army is as experienced in rural operations as in security work inside cities,
and its techniques would be suitable to securing areas like airports.

The Army could assist the police by deploying night vision devices and infra-red
scanning devices that are capable of picking up, for example, heat-emanations.
The heat reflected by objects varies widely, and weapons - such as the array of
mortar tubes that were left in that patch of scrub at Heathrow - would be
readily detected, even if covered over with camouflage.

They would reflect a different heat signal from that of the surrounding
material. Such objects would be less easy to detect if they were on a lorry,
because they would be in the heat field of the lorry, but in the middle of
fields and other open spaces, they would be found.

The Army has other equipment, too - the character and capability of which it
does not disclose for security reasons.

The presence of the military is likely to reduce the chances that an attack
would be made and if it were, that it would succeed. Full surveillance need not
even be carried out every day or every night. The very fact that it was done,
now here, now there, would be a discouragement to any terrorist.

There is nothing, of course, that can provide security that is 100 per cent
effective in an open - or even in a closed - society, but I think that the
public generally understands that there is no such thing as full security, just
better security.

Such military operations would be expensive, but the expense is containable.

It would not even approach the replacement cost of a building blown up in the
City.

For the involvement of the military to be effective, however, one individual
must be placed in complete overall command of the fight against terrorism.

He - or she - must not simply direct operations; they would have to be given the
power, authority and political backing to do the job. It could be a civilian, a
senior policy or a military officer. That is simply a matter of selecting the
right person.

But the attacks at Heathrow do not merely call for counter-measures at airports.
They remind us, if we still need reminding after all that has happened since
1969, that the IRA has no intention of abandoning violence until its aims are
achieved. It will not be prevented from doing so without a wholehearted response
from the state - and the sooner the better for us all.

General Sir Anthony Farrar-Hockley is a former Nato Commander-in-Chief and was
the first Commander, Land Forces, Northern Ireland.

(Photograph and map omitted)


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                             March 20, 1994, Sunday

ARMY HELICOPTER HIT IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 280 words


A POLICEMAN was seriously injured in a terrorist attack on a helicopter coming
in to land at the Crossmaglen army and police base in South Armagh last night.

Two soldiers suffered minor injuries when what is thought to have been a mortar
bomb was fired over the perimeter of the heavily fortified base.

A Royal Ulster Constabulary spokesman praised the pilot, who managed to bring
the burning aircraft down in a controlled landing. The missile struck when the
helicopter was about 20ft above the ground, it is believed.

All on board - the army pilot, two crewmen and the policeman - escaped before it
exploded.

Witnesses in the village said the blast was followed by a series of smaller
bangs, thought to be the helicopter's ammunition exploding.

In Belfast the Ulster Freedom Fighters admitted they were behind yesterday's
spate of hijackings and burnings of 11 buses and vans in loyalist areas of the
city. There were three arrests.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             March 20, 1994, Sunday

SILENCE BY ADAMS IS SLAMMED;
GERRY ADAMS FAILS TO CONDEMN TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: Page 5

LENGTH: 75 words


Gerry Adams was slammed yesterday for failing to condemn terrorist violence like
the recent attacks on Heathrow.

The Sinn Fein president was denounced by Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick
Mayhew, who added: "Resentment of the IRA is widespread and vocal in the US,
from President Clinton down.

"These murderers kill for no-one but themselves.  And Mr Adams still does not
withdraw his justifications of what he calls the armed struggle."


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 25, 1994, Friday

Bosnian Serbs step up terror attacks

BYLINE: TONY BARBER, East Europe Editor

SECTION: EUROPEAN NEWS PAGE; Page 12

LENGTH: 475 words


Bosnian Serb fighters have stepped up their campaign of terror against Muslim
civilians in the northern city of Banja Luka despite growing inter national
pressure for a settlement of the Bosnian war, United Nations refugee workers
said yesterday.

The officials, who are based in Banja Luka, said armed Serbs in uniform had
murdered, raped, robbed and beaten Muslims and Croats in a series of attacks
that the Bosnian Serb authorities had failed to discourage.

''In the last one or two months, we have seen an increase in ethnic violence in
the area against non-Serbs, especially against the Muslim population,'' said
Joran Bjallerstedt, a UN refugee official. ''Today if you are a Serb, you are
free to enter a Muslim house and throw them out of it or kill them, or
whatever.''

The attacks are intended partly to drive non-Serbs out of Banja Luka and create
room for Serbian refugees who have been displaced by fighting, mainly between
Muslims and Croats, in central Bosnia. Up to 10,000 Serbs are expected to arrive
in Banja Luka soon from Zenica in Muslim-held central Bosnia.

But the attacks also fit into a pattern of Bosnian Serb intransigence in the
face of US and Russian efforts to halt the war. On Wednesday, Bosnian Serb
forces looted 10 UN aid trucks destined for the Muslim enclave of Maglaj. The
Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadzic, called it the work of ''an insane
person'', but the UN pointed out that the hijacking occurred in an area under
reasonably firm Serbian control.

Earlier this week, UN forces discovered Serbian tanks and weapons inside the
UN-declared exclusion zone around Sarajevo. While the Serbs have relaxed their
siege of Sarajevo, they have continued to attack Maglaj and the north-west
Muslim enclave of Bihac.

The Bosnian Serbs are angry that the UN has given the green light for the
deployment in Bosnia of troops from Turkey, a traditional Serbian foe. Bosnian
Serb leaders have threatened to counter the Turkish step by asking Serbian-led
rump Yugoslavia to bolster its military presence in Bosnia.

Turkey had originally wanted to send 1,000 men, but its Foreign Minister, Hikmet
Cetin, said yesterday that the contingent would include 1,200 infantry, a
1,000-strong logistics unit and 500 engineers. This would give Turkey one of the
highest profiles in the UN operation in Bosnia. Turkey is already playing a role
in Nato's air missions over Bosnia, and it was eager to join UN forces on the
ground because of the recent Russian intervention in Sarajevo.

SARAJEVO - The self-proclaimed Bosnian Serb republic's parliament yesterday
endorsed their leaders' refusal to participate in a Muslim-Croat federation in
Bosnia which emerged from US and Russian diplomatic mediation, Reuter reports.
They rejected the talks until UN sanctions against Serb-led Yugoslavia are
lifted.


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 29, 1994, Tuesday

CRAZED CON IN JAIL TERROR;
CRAZED CON ATTACKS PRISON OFFICERS IN JAIL TERROR

SECTION: Page 9

LENGTH: 117 words


Prison officers were attacked by a crazed inmate after rescuing him from a
smoke-filled cell.

The con pounced after trying to torch a mattress in the segregation unit of
Barlinnie Prison, Glasgow, on Saturday evening.

Prison officers had to wrestle the man and drag him from the unit after he
pounced on his rescuers.

Several prison staff were treated for the effects of smoke and colleagues were
drafted in to cover for them.

The inmate was transferred to Barlinnie from Edinburgh's Saughton Jail after
threatening to take an officer hostage two weeks ago.

The con - serving 15 months for assault and robbery - has not yet been charged.

Police are to interview him later today.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            March 29, 1994, Tuesday

Egyptians flock to film attacking Islamic terrorism

BYLINE: Christopher Walker

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 286 words


A BRAVE film attacking Islamic militants has become a surprise hit in Egypt,
breaking all box-office records despite death threats against the crew, the
actors and the audiences flocking to Cairo cinemas to see it.

Entitled Al-Irhabi (The Terrorist) the film grossed more than Pounds E700,000
(Pounds 145,000) in its first week and is set to be shown across the Arab world
where the Cairo film industry is the equivalent of Hollywood.

The star, Adel Imam, has long since replaced Omar Sharif as the leading
heartthrob of the Arab screen. Many streets in Cairo are now overshadowed by
posters depicting him as an Islamic extremist, complete with white skullcap,
beard and cocked pistol.

During the two months in which the film was being shot, the star and the crew
received continuous threats from the main armed groups, who are not only against
this film in particular but all forms of popular entertainment, including
theatre, circuses and bellydancing.

The size of the audiences emphasises that Egyptians, Muslims and Christians (who
make up 10 per cent of the population) are still strong and not easily
frightened, says Imam, probably the best-known actor in the Middle East, but
cinemas showing the film are heavily guarded.

The film, set in the affluent Cairo suburb of Maadi, depicts the militants as
unfortunates, misled by their ruthless leaders who teach them religous slogans
parrot-fashion and lack any honour. Many of the issues it covers have previously
been taboo for an industry which largely churns out soap operas.

In one politically slanted scene at a football match, when Egypt scores, fans
automatically embrace, religious hatreds forgotten in a display of nationalism.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           March 30, 1994, Wednesday

ROCKET ATTACK ON SINN FEIN;
TERRORIST ATTACK CARRIED OUT ON SINN FEIN OFFICE

SECTION: Page 4

LENGTH: 50 words


A terrorist rocket and gun attack was carried out on a Sinn Fein office

yesterday.

The attack on the Republican Press Centre in Belfast's Falls Road was mounted by
a three-man gang from the ruthless outlawed Loyalist Ulster Freedom Fighters
terror group.

No one was injured in the attack.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             April 3, 1994, Sunday

BRAVE JEFF REFS ON;
DAUGHTER EMMA STABBED IN SCHOOL TERROR ATTACK;
JEFF WINTER REFEREED FOOTBALL MATCH AFTER DAUGHTER STABBED IN MIDDLESBOROUGH
SCHOOL KILLING

BYLINE: John Dillon

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 387 words


BRAVE referee Jeff Winter took charge of a top Football League match a day after
his daughter was stabbed in the Middlesbrough school killing. Winter's daughter
Emma, 13, was one of two pupils injured in the horrific incident at Hall Garth
School last Monday in which 12-year-old Nikki Conroy was killed. Despite the
trauma, Winter refereed the Second Division match between York City and Reading
on Tuesday night.

He took control the Second Division game between Cambridge United and Leyton
Orient yesterday. And last night Winter received a message of support and praise
from referees assocaition chief Neil Midgley.

Midgley, President of the Association of Premier League and Football League
Referees and Linesman, said: "When we heard what had happened, I immediately
called Jeff and then dropped him a line. "We've offered our support and told him
he can contact us about whatever he wants. We appreciate what he's been going
through. "It shows how dedicated referees can be when they'll go out and do a
game in circumstances like these. Jeff told me that he wanted to referee the
York match to give him something else to think about. "The concentration on the
game took his mind off things for a bit." Winter's daughter Emma was stabbed
twice in the back during the classroom attack on Monday morning.

She was treated in hospital and allowed home later in the day. Stephen
Wilkinson, 29, has appeared at Middlesbrough Crown Court charged with attempted
murder of Emma Winter and Michelle Reeve and the murder of Nikki Conroy.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JEFF WINTER

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1994 MGN Ltd.

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 April 7, 1994

ISRAEL SEALS BORDERS AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Theodore Levite

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1040 words


ISRAEL SEALED its borders with the occupied territories today following
yesterday's massacre in Afula and new outbreaks of violence.

Army chief-of-staff Ehud Barak said he was sealing the occupied territories
indefinitely, barring Palestinians from entering the Jewish state.  A
Palestinian guerrilla sprayed people waiting at a bus stop with gunfire today,
killing an Israeli and wounding four others. The attack, less than 24 hours
after a suicide bomber from the radical Islamic Hamas group killed himself and
at least seven Israelis in the northern town of Afula, coincided with Israel's
annual memorial day for six million Nazi Holocaust victims.

The Moslem fundamentalist Islamic Jihad, an opponent of the Israel-PLO peace
accord, also claimed responsibility for the bus stop shooting at a busy junction
near the southern port of Ashdod.

Police said the gunman was an 18-year-old from the Shati refugee camp in the
occupied Gaza Strip. He was shot dead by two armed bystanders.

'He was hiding near the bus stop and when there were enough people he walked
over to where they were waiting and fired at them,' said a police spokesman.

'A soldier who was talking on a mobile telephone and a civilian responded
swiftly with fire and killed him on the spot.'

An hour later a Jewish settler ran down a Palestinian and his five-year-old son
on the pavement in the occupied West Bank city of Hebron.

Witnesses said the driver's action was deliberate. They said the settler's car
struck Ali al-Zaghal, 45, who was badly hurt, and his son Mustafa, who escaped
with minor injuries.

The incident ignited fresh demonstrations in the city, where another Jewish
settler massacred 29 Moslems in a mosque in February. In the Gaza Strip a
Palestinian worker stabbed and injured his Jewish settler employer soon after
the man picked him up to take him to work. The man was stabbed in the back and
head and was reported to be in a fair condition in hospital.

In another outbreak of violence a settler was injured near Kalkilya, in the
north of the West Bank, when Palestinians stoned his car.

Two Molotov cocktail attacks on Israeli buildings were reported from elsewhere
in the West Bank as the number of incidents appeared to be accelerating out of
hand.

Hamas vowed today to step up strikes against Israel and told Palestinians in the
occupied territories to stock up on food and prepare for war.

'Afula was our first response to the Hebron massacre and more attacks are on the
way,' the group's military wing said in a statement. It pledged to turn Israel's
Independence Day next Thursday 'into hell'.

The attacks gave ammunition to Right-wing opponents of Prime Minister Yitzhak
Rabin's peace efforts. Israeli leaders have pledged talks on implementing
Palestinian self-rule would continue.

But Economics Minister Shimon Shitreet, echoing the sentiment of many Israelis,
publicly criticised PLO chairman Yasser Arafat for failing to condemn the Afula
bombing.

Arafat's PLO is locked in a leadership struggle with Hamas and other radical
groups in the occupied territories, where many Palestinians are disillusioned
over the slow pace of peace.

Blood stains at the Ashdod junction were not yet dry today before Israeli youths
put up a hand-written sign in red letters at the bus stop saying 'Enough Victims
of Peace'.

'This is the year of our holocaust,' said cab driver Yossi Asher, who witnessed
the shooting.

Israeli schoolchildren bow their heads as a siren wails for one minute to mark
Holocaust Day in remembrance of the six million Jews killed by the Nazis

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            April 9, 1994, Saturday

TERROR ATTACKS AS CEASEFIRE ENDS

BYLINE:  Heather Tyrrell, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 63 words


Terrorists carried out two attacks in Northern Ireland tonight - just minutes
after the end of the IRA's three-day ceasefire. Shots were fired at two army
checkpoints - Clonnaty Bridge and Kilturk - near Newtownbutler, Co Fermanagh, at
12.05am.  And an explosive device was fired at Oldpark RUC station in North
Belfast at 12.18am.  Nobody was hurt in either attack.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             April 10, 1994, Sunday

BOMBS AND ROSES AS CEASEFIRE FINISHES;
TERRORIST ATTACKS AFTER 3 DAY CEASEFIRE

SECTION: Page 5

LENGTH: 133 words


Ireland was back to business as usual yesterday as the IRA's three-day ceasefire
ended.

The terrorists mounted a series of attacks throughout Ulster as Wendy and Colin
Parry planted a bed of roses in Dublin in memory of son Tim' killed by the IRA's
Warrington bomb a year ago.

Soon after the IRA ceasefire expired at midnight, the terrorist chiefs ordered
their men into action.

A massive mortar attack just before noon followed three early morning gun and
bomb attacks on the security forces.

Almost 50 families were evacuated from their homes in biting winds and driving
hail near the border checkpoint at Aughnacloy Co. Tyrone, after the mortar
attack But there are hopes that there may be another, longer, ceasefire
following hints from Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams on Friday.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             April 10, 1994, Sunday

TERROR ATTACK IN TOILET;
ELDERLY WOMAN SUFFERS SEX ATTACK IN HOSPITAL TOILET

SECTION: Page 19

LENGTH: 64 words


An elderly woman was recovering yesterday after a sex attack in a hospital
toilet.

A masked man put his arm round her throat, punched her and threatened to kill
her.

Her 60-year-old husband heard her screams and rushed into the toilet, in St
Mary's Hospital, Newport, Isle of Wight, but the young man, who had a Scots
accent, escaped.

The attack took place on Friday night.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 12, 1994

GREEK TERROR GROUP CLAIMS FAILED ROCKET ATTACK ON ARK ROYAL

BYLINE: HELENA SMITH IN ATHENS

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 354 words


THE Greek terrorist organisation November 17 admitted yesterday it had tried to
fire two anti-tank rockets at the British aircraft carrier Ark Royal while it
was docked near Athens last week.

Senior police officers said home-made plastic launchers with 88mm rockets and
remote-controlled timers had been found in a field less than 300 yards from
where the Royal Navy's largest carrier was berthed.

The Ark Royal, which has a crew of 1,000, was undergoing maintenance after
patrolling the Adriatic Sea with other Nato naval forces enforcing United
Nations sanctions against the rump Yugoslavia.

Greek security forces found the armaments shortly after the leftwing guerrilla
group said it had planned the attack in an anonymous telephone call to a private
radio station.

November 17, described in a US defence department report as the most deadly
terror group in Europe, also claimed responsibility for two other rocket attacks
against US and Dutch insurance companies in Athens early yesterday. The rockets
caused severe damage, but no injuries.

Anti-terrorist experts said they believed rain had thwarted the attack against
the Ark Royal which left the port of Pireaus yesterday.

"The rockets failed to explode after the automatic timers failed to go off
because of rain," a security officer said.  Police said yesterday security would
be stepped up at all embassies.

The terrorist group, named after the day in 1973 when troops quelled a student
uprising against the military regime, launched similar attacks against the
French and German cultural institutes in Athens earlier this year.

Although it did not say why it had targeted the Ark Royal, the attack would seem
to echo the anger in Greece over the UN sanctions against its traditional ally
Serbia.

Since November 17's emergence in 1975 with the assassination of Richard Welch,
the CIA station chief in Athens, the group has killed businessmen, magistrates,
US diplomats and soldiers.

Lack of headway in tracking it down has led Western and Israeli diplomats to
regard Athens as one of their most dangerous posts.


LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 12, 1994, Tuesday

Bombers injure 11 in attack on homes; Loyalist terrorists target 'wrong' houses

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 3

LENGTH: 264 words


ELEVEN PEOPLE, including seven children, were treated in hospital yesterday
after bomb attacks on two houses in Catholic areas of West Belfast.

Both attacks were botched. The bombs were intended for the homes of members of
Sinn Fein, the IRA's political wing, but were thrown at the wrong houses. The
outlawed Ulster Freedom Fighters claimed responsibility for one attack, and were
also believed to be behind the second.

One device was thrown through the window of the living room at a house in Hugo
Street, off the Falls Road. The UFF said it targeted the house because it was
used by Joe Austin, a Sinn Fein councillor. Although the name of the family
living there is Austin, they are not related.

Two of six children in the family rushed into a back room when the bomb crashed
through the window, exploding moments later.

The attack came shortly after another bomb was thrown through the window of a
house at Merrion Park, Poleglass. The terrorists were believed to have been
targeting another Sinn Fein councillor.

The device exploded in the lounge where a man was watching television with his
girlfriend and their baby.

''There was a flash. I ran over and covered my girlfriend and baby,'' said the
man, who declined to be named.

There was ''absolutely no justification'' for the attack, he said. It was too
easy to use the lame excuse of '' 'Oh, sorry, wrong house' but you are talking
about people's lives. That bomb was meant to kill''.

Sinn Fein described the bombings as ''indiscriminate sectarian attacks against
defenceless families''.


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           April 20, 1994, Wednesday

TWO SHOT IN TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE:  Ian Graham and Chris Parkin, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 470 words


Two men were shot in loyalist and republican attacks in Belfast today.  A
24-year-old Catholic sex shop assistant was critically ill after being shot in
the head by the Ulster Volunteer Force.  The victim, named locally as John
Foster, from Antrim, was attacked in the Soho bookstore in Gresham Street in the
city centre.  Three gunmen in leather jackets and ski masks walked into the
shop, ordered staff inside to lie on the floor and then shot Mr Foster twice in
the head.  Other shop workers, who initially thought they were victims of a
hold-up, were uninjured.  The UVF admitted responsibility in a call to a Belfast
newsroom.  A car used by the gunmen had been hijacked in north Belfast and was
later dumped in the loyalist Shankill Road area.  A few hours later in west
Belfast a 34-year-old Protestant standing in the street opposite his home was
shot by an IRA gunman from a passing car.  The man escaped with an arm wound.
The IRA, claiming responsibility, alleged their target was a leading loyalist.
The shooting took place in a small Protestant enclave in the Suffolk area of
west Belfast and the red Renault 19 used by the gunmen was found abandoned in a
republican area nearby soon afterwards.  Earlier, terrorists abandoned a murder
bid in north Belfast.  Two men, one armed with a rifle, broke into a house
shortly before 2am but left after discovering only a woman and a teenage girl
asleep in their beds.  Today's shootings came amid fears that loyalist terrorism
was close to spiralling out of control. The Ulster Freedom Fighters and Ulster
Volunteer Force have averaged more than an attack a day since the IRA ended its
72-hour ceasefire a fortnight ago.  Three people have been killed and several
more injured in their attacks.  Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds today
voiced his concern, calling for greater security to protect Northern Ireland's
nationalist community.  "Since the beginning of this year, loyalists have been
responsible for eight of the 11 murders committed," he said.  The IRA's
political wing, Sinn Fein, have accused the security forces of failing to
respond to loyalist violence, but Ulster Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew has
insisted a totally even-handed approach is being operated.  He pointed out that
40% more loyalists than republicans were charged in the last year.  The RUC also
angrily rejected the Sinn Fein charge.  A senior source said: "We're not
fighting on different fronts. A terrorist is a terrorist is a terrorist. It
makes no difference what hue they are or what flag of convenience they go under.
"We are absolutely even-handed in dealing with loyalist and republican
violence." The loyalist attacks will be on the agenda for a meeting of the
Anglo-Irish intergovernmental Ulster Conference, expected to be held in Belfast
next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            April 30, 1994, Saturday

TERROR ATTACK;
GARAGE BOSS RON NICOL RECOVERS AFTER ATTACK

SECTION: Page 17

LENGTH: 36 words


Garage boss Ron Nicol was recovering yesterday after being robbed of cash at
gun-point.  The terror attack by two masked thugs happened on Thursday, near Mr
Nicol's Meadowbank Autopoint, in London Road, Edinburgh.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 6, 1994, Friday

Terrorists jailed for gun attack on soldier

SECTION: POLITICS PAGE; Page 9

LENGTH: 206 words


(First Edition)

Two men were each jailed for 25 years yesterday for attempting to murder a
soldier in the Lower Falls area of Belfast.

Kevin McCann, 27, and Brendan McAnoy, 31, were convicted of shooting a soldier
in the head with a shotgun while he was on patrol in Dunville Street in February
last year.

Belfast Crown Court heard the soldier's helmet took the full impact of the shot
and saved his life.

McAnoy and McCann were captured moments later in McCann's family home in nearby
Lower Clonard Street, West Belfast, after another soldier spotted them running
away.

The attack had been launched from a house in Dunville Street where a family of
three had been held captive overnight.

Security forces found a shotgun beside a pair of step ladders, which had been
used as a gun platform.

Mr Justice Pringle, jailing the pair, said that sentences for terrorist crime
would ''go up and up'' as long as terrorists failed to learn the lesson that
their conduct could not and would not be tolerated.

McAnoy, who shouted ''Up the IRA'' as he left the dock, and McCann were given
concurrent jail terms ranging from 15 to 18 years for wounding the soldier,
having the shotgun and holding the family hostage.


LOAD-DATE: May 06, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              May 9, 1994, Monday

OAP IS KILLED IN FRONT OF TV;
Woman killed in terrorist attack in County Tyrone

SECTION: Page 9

LENGTH: 98 words


A woman of 75 was murdered by terrorists late last night as she watched

TV in her home.

The gunmen opened fire through the window of her cottage, in a lonely country
area of County Tyrone.

Locals said the victim came from a Catholic background.  It's understood that
she lived on her own.

The shooting happened at about 11.45pm at a house in Cullenrammer road, three
miles to the west of Dungannon.

Early this morning, the scene had been sealed off by the security forces.

No-one had claimed responsibility for the shooting.

But Loyalist fanatics were suspected.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              May 22, 1994, Sunday

DUBLIN TERROR ATTACK FOCUSES ANGLO-IRISH EXCHANGES

BYLINE:  Chris Parkin and Ian Graham, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 608 words


The implications of the most serious Ulster loyalist cross-border terrorist
attack in 20 years will be assessed by British and Irish government ministers
tomorrow.  Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew and deputy Dublin
premier Dick Spring are to meet near the Irish Republic's border with Ulster in
Co Cavan at the formal opening of a restored canal.  The pair had already agreed
on a two-hour exchange of views on the progress of their two governments'
current push for a Northern Ireland settlement in the light of Britain's reply
last week to questions posed by Sinn Fein - the IRA's political wing - about the
five-month-old Downing Street peace declaration.  But the gun and bomb attack on
a Dublin pub as Sinn Fein staged a fund-raising event on the premises has
sharpened the agenda for the discussions.  The loyalist Ulster Volunteer Force
tonight claimed responsibility for the attack which left one man dead and a
second wounded.  In a statement released in Belfast today, the outlawed terror
group boasted that it had "struck at the very heart of the republican movement
in its own back yard".  Mr Spring tonight said he was disturbed about what
happened, and confirmed the bombing would be high on the agenda when he saw Sir
Patrick.  One doorman was shot dead and another seriously wounded when they
blocked the entry of the gang of bombers.  The intruders fled after the
shooting, leaving their holdall bomb. Its failure to ignite prevented certain
carnage, police said. Both Mr Spring and Prime Minister Albert Reynolds - who is
due to have talks on peace of his own in London later this week with John Major
- had already signalled their growing concern about loyalist attacks in Belfast
and other parts of Northern Ireland.  The spread of the violence across the
border - and deep into the centre of Dublin - has rung security alarm bells in
both the Irish capital and Belfast.  The fear was that the incident at the Widow
Scallan's bar could herald the opening of a new campaign in the Irish Republic.
Until now the assumption had been that loyalist para-militaries lacked the
expertise and the neccessary network of escape routes to strike so far south.
Yet the signs were that not only had their raid been executed, even though the
18lb commercial mix bomb failed to go off, but the three-man gang had either got
back safely into Ulster, or gone to ground at a "safe-house".  The belief among
Dublin police tonight was that the gang had carefully laid plans to escape from
the Republic before road checkpoints were in operation at around midnight on
Saturday night.  The UVF assault was the most menacing by Ulster loyalists south
of the border since 1974, when bombs in Dublin and the frontier town of Monaghan
claimed 33 lives.  Suspicions have persisted among relatives of the dead that
loyalists were aided then by Northern Ireland-based security personnel. No
arrests were ever made in connection with those bombings.  Since that time, most
loyalist activity in the south has been restricted to firebombings and incidents
around the border. Eight years ago, audacious gunmen fired on the Dublin
headquarters of Sinn Fein, and earlier this year, incendiary devices were mailed
to the same address.

Mr Spring later called the Dublin attack "a sinister development".  He also said
the shooting and attempted bombing would require a complete review of security
on the southern side of the Irish border.

Irish justice minister Maire Geoghegan-Quinn will join tomorrow's discussions
with Sir Patrick and Mr Spring on the consequences of the Dublin attack, an
Irish government spokesman later said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                  May 23, 1994

Terror attack shocks Dublin;
Loyalist gunmen shoot down doorman at republican pub

BYLINE: Tim Jotischky,

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 1640 words


THE Irish Republic was in shock last night after an audacious strike by Ulster
loyalists in the heart of Dublin.

Deputy Premier Dick Spring said the outrage - the first serious attack in the
South for 20 years - would mean a complete review of security.

Two members of the outlawed Ulster Volunteer Force shot dead the doorman at a
pub hosting a republican fund-raising evening and seriously wounded his
colleague.

An 18lb bomb, which they hurled into the building, would have killed more than
200 people had it exploded. Only a faulty detonator prevented a massacre.

The attack marks a dangerous new chapter in the increasingly violent campaign
being waged by loyalist paramilitaries. Until recently they were thought not to
have the resources to mount a full-scale offensive but the interception of a
huge arms and explosives cache in Teesside last November was a warning sign.

The Dublin attack came amid unprecedented anger among hard-line Ulster
loyalists, furious at the Government's decision to clarify the Downing Street
declaration and convinced they are about to be sold out. One Belfast Unionist
leader described it as 'the shape of things to come'.

Mr Spring, who called it 'a sinister development', will discuss the implications
with Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew at a meeting in County Cavan
today at which they had planned to discuss the progress of the push for an
Ulster peace settlement.

Last night, the UVF boasted that it had 'struck at the very heart of the
republican movement in its own back yard'.

A statement went on to warn the IRA and the Dublin government 'that the Ulster
people will neither be coerced nor persuaded and will remain masters of their
own destiny'.

RUC Chief Constable Sir Hugh Annesley has repeatedly warned of an impending
bombing campaign in the South.

Recently well-known loyalist terrorists have been spotted in Dublin fuelling
fears that they were checking on potential targets. Owners of commercial
premises were told to be on their guard.

But the attack late on Saturday night on Widow Scallan's pub in Pearse Street
still shocked a city which has been spared much of the violence that has dogged
Ulster for the last 25 years.

Not since car bombs killed 27 people in Dublin exactly 20 years ago - the same
day as six others died in an attack on Monaghan - have the loyalists carried out
a murder there.

The gunmen were challenged at the door of the pub where the function -
advertised in the republican press as a ballad evening to raise money for
prisoners - was being held in an upstairs lounge.

They sprayed the building with gunfire, hitting doorman Martin Doherty, 35,
several times. A steward was shot in the throat.

The terrorists then threw inside a hold-all containing commercial explosives and
escaped in a waiting car.

The bag lay unnoticed while people crowded around the wounded men. The detonator
went off but the main bulk of the explosives failed to ignite.

A Garda spokesman said: 'Had the device exploded the entire pub and all of the
occupants would have been blown up, including our own men at the scene.'

Mr Doherty, from Dublin, died in hospital. His colleague was last night in a
'stable' condition.

The spectre of a concerted loyalist campaign in the South is the nightmare
scenario for Premier Albert Reynolds.

Until now security chiefs have had to deal with only sporadic attacks.  Last
year the violence was confined to a crude firebomb campaign which did little
damage.

But only last month the loyalist Ulster Freedom Fighters' commander warned in a
newspaper interview: 'The more interference, the more intransigence shown by
Reynolds's side, the more inevitable a loyalist attack on the South.' The UDA
claims it has active service units in the South.

Belfast City Council's Ulster Unionist leader Fred Cobain said last night: 'It
was only a matter of time before loyalists went south.

'Dublin is having an increasing say in the affairs of Northern Ireland.

The way to reverse that trend is to indulge in the same tactics as the IRA and
to attack targets in the South. This may be a sign of things to come.'

Unionists accuse the RUC of cracking down on alleged loyalist terrorists while
allowing known IRA suspects to go free. They are demanding a meeting with
Belfast's assistant chief constable Ronnie Flannagan.

Their anger was compounded by the arrest of 20 loyalist suspects in a series of
dawn raids last week.

Rioting broke out in Belfast and shots were fired at police patrols hours after
a man appeared in court on Friday charged with directing UFF terror attacks.

Church of Ireland Archbishop Robert Eames warned of 'alienation' among
Protestants.

Ulster Unionist leader James Molyneaux has held secret talks with loyalist
paramilitaries to try to secure a summer ceasefire.

But security sources are sceptical and believe that the violence will escalate
in the short-term.

On Saturday, a man was shot and seriously wounded in an attack on a Lurgan pub
used by Catholics.

In Londonderry 300 people clashed with police after the IRA fired a rocket at a
force Land Rover. Fifteen were hurt when police fired plastic bullets.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              May 23, 1994, Monday

DUBLIN TERROR ATTACK FOCUSES ANGLO-IRISH EXCHANGES

BYLINE:  Chris Parkin and Ian Graham, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 560 words


The implications of the most serious Ulster loyalist cross-border terrorist
attack in 20 years were being assessed by British and Irish government ministers
today.  Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew and Deputy Dublin Premier
Dick Spring were meeting near the Irish Republic's border with Ulster in Co
Cavan at the formal opening of a restored canal. Irish justice minister Maire
Geoghegan-Quinn was joining the discussions.  Sir Patrick and Mr Spring had
already agreed on a two-hour exchange of views on the progress of their two
governments' current push for a Northern Ireland settlement in the light of
Britain's reply last week to questions posed by Sinn Fein - the IRA's political
wing - about the five-month-old Downing Street peace declaration.  But the gun
and bomb attack on a Dublin pub as Sinn Fein staged a fund-raising event on the
premises has sharpened the agenda for the discussions.  The loyalist Ulster
Volunteer Force claimed responsibility for the attack which left one man dead
and a second wounded.  One doorman was shot dead and another seriously wounded
when they blocked the entry of the gang of bombers.  The intruders fled after
the weekend shooting, leaving their holdall bomb. Its failure to ignite
prevented certain carnage, police said.  The UVF assault was the most menacing
by Ulster loyalists south of the border since 1974, when bombs in Dublin and the
frontier town of Monaghan claimed 33 lives.

Mr Spring described the UVF attack as sinister and disturbing and said last
night that there needed to be a new look at security measures generally on the
southern side of the Irish border.  It is likely to involve a full scale review
of all anti-terrorist precautions currently operated along the 300-mile-long
border - with extra checkpoints a strong possibility.  The central fear in
Dublin is that the loyalists could already have lined up further strikes in the
south.

The Rev Ian Paisley claimed today that the British and Irish governments are in
the final stages of agreeing cross border institutions with executive powers.
The Democratic Unionist Party leader said the final go-ahead for the new bodies
would be given when Mr Major and the Republic's Prime Minster Albert Reynolds
met for talks later this week.  He claimed they would have executive powers
dealing with a wide range of subjects and which would "impinge on sovereignty".
Unionist representation on the institutions would be in a minority, he said.  Mr
Paisley, added: "The British Government is proceeding down a dangerous road,
which can only exacerbate and intensify instability in Northern Ireland.  "They
continue to flout the will of the majority of the people of this province in
their desperate rush to appease republicanism, the SDLP and Dublin."

Irish justice minister Maire Geoghegan-Quinn is to have talks tomorrow with
Irish Police Commissioner Patrick Culligan about the implications of the Dublin
attack.  Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn announced the move today shortly before joining
talks with Mr Spring, and Sir Patrick and Ulster Security Minister Sir John
Wheeler.  She said there was concern that the attack was not an isolated raid.
She reported that a police review of security precautions had been initiated
immediately and was continuing. In Dublin top police officers were meeting to
assess the position.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             May 24, 1994, Tuesday

BOMBERS COST BA #10 MILLION;
TERRORIST ATTACKS ON HEATHROW COST BRITISH AIRWAYS #10 MILLION

SECTION: Page 9

LENGTH: 128 words


Terrorist attacks on Heathrow Airport earlier this year cost British Airways #1O
million, it was revealed yesterday.

And it is estimated that the cost to all airlines is likely to have totalled
about #25million.

The IRA mortar bombers struck three times in five days in March.

BA's group managing director Robert Ayling said the airline was particularly
badly affected by the last attack on the Sunday which effectively shut down the
airport for several hours.

Mr Ayling was speaking in London as BA announced pre-tax profits of #301million
for the 1993-94 financial year' a 62.7 per cent increase on the previous year.

BA also announced that its European business class passengers could expect an
improvement in its Club Europe service this autumn.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 25, 1994

Anti-terror laws survive attacks

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 333 words


THE renewal of anti-terrorist emergency powers in Northern Ireland for another
year was approved last night, despite continued opposition from Labour, and
outbursts from Unionists over Sinn Fein.

Northern Ireland Secretary Sir Patrick Mayhew had urged Labour MPs "to nerve
themselves in the interests of Northern Ireland" and not to vote against
renewing the laws.

But Labour spokesman Kevin McNamara said the Opposition could not support a
measure which included powers of internment.

Voting was 257 to 154 to approve the Northern Ireland (Emergency and Prevention
of Terrorism Provisions) Order, which renews legislation providing for trial
without jury; giving arrest, search and seizure powers to the Royal Ulster
Constabulary and the Army; banning membership of proscribed organisations; and
providing powers aimed at countering terrorist finances.

The Rev. William McCrea (Mid Ulster -- DUP) said the IRA had "bombed its way to
the table". He said the Act had been used recently to "lift" a Protestant, but
went on to demand why Sinn Fein's Martin McGuinness -- who he described as "the
front man for the terrorists in negotiations through the back door with the
Government'' -- had not also been "lifted".

Mr David Trimble (Upper Bann -- UUP) demanded why no inquiry was being made into
the role of Sinn Fein leaders Mr McGuinness and Gerry Adams.

Opening the debate on the measure, Sir Patrick said that since the Order was
last renewed 84 people had died from terrorist violence in Northern Ireland,
including 11 members of the security forces.

"It is to meet the challenge presented by such crimes that we need to renew the
temporary provisions of this Act."

Mr McNamara said Labour recognised the justification for some emergency powers
to counter the terrorist threat in Northern Ireland.

However, he warned: "The power of the executive to imprison without charge, let
alone trial, undermines the founding principles of any democratic country."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              May 27, 1994, Friday

MUMS TELL OF ARSON ATTACK TERROR;
MUMS TELL OF TERROR OF BEING TRAPPED IN THEIR HOMES AFTER ARSONISTS SET FIRE TO
THEM

BYLINE: Charles Beaton

SECTION: Page 1

LENGTH: 190 words


Two young mums yesterday told of the terror of being trapped with their

children in their burning homes . victims of FIREBUGS.

Mother-of-four June Storey, 23, had petrol poured through her letter box.

And mum-of-two Susan Casper, 29, prayed as her door was torched with burning
paper.

The fires - which were unconnected - happened early yesterday morning as both
families slept.

June said she woke just after l.30 am to the sound of crackling coming from the
hallway at her home at Kempsthorn Road, Pollok, Glasgow.

She found her front door ablaze and smoke filling the house.

She ran to wake her four sons, aged four years to 11 months, and fled to the
verandah and screamed for help.

Neighbours alerted the fire brigade and they were rescued.

The second arsonist attack, at Susan Casper's home in Campbelltown Drive,
Kilmarnock, happened at 4 am.

Said Susan: "I was terrified. My husband, Alan, was choking with the smoke, and
the child-ren were crying. I just prayed there and then.

"Minutes later, I was so relived to see firemen climbing the staircase." Police
were last night probing both incidents.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                              May 29, 1994, Sunday

ROCKET ATTACK TERRORISTS TAKE HOSTAGES

BYLINE:  Padraic Flanagan, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 100 words


Two women and three young children were held hostage in a Belfast house for
nearly five hours by terrorists waiting to launch a rocket attack on a passing
Army patrol, police said. Two masked men forced their way into the house in Etna
Drive in the staunchly nationalist Ardoyne area of north Belfast at 12.30pm
yesterday and ordered a woman and three children upstairs.  A woman visitor who
called at the house later was forced inside and also held.  The RUC said a
device was fired from the house, shattering a window and damaging the Army Land
Rover.  No-one was injured in the attack.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             June 2, 1994, Thursday

BRAVE KID SEES OFF SNATCHER;
DRAGNET AFTER PLAYGROUND TERROR ATTACK;
MAN ATTEMPTS TO ABDUCT BOY FROM PLAYGROUND

BYLINE: Iain Lundy

SECTION: Page 15

LENGTH: 197 words


An eight-year-old boy beat off a man's attempt to abduct him from his school
playground yesterday .  By kicking his attacker in the shins then running to
tell his teachers.

The man walked into the playground at Walker Road Primary School in Aberdeen at
lunchtime.

A police spokesman said: "He put his hand on the boy's shoulder and said the
youngster's mother had told him to take the boy to the dentist." But the
sharp-witted lad asked the man, who he had never seen before, what his mother's
name was.

When the man couldn't answer, he kicked him in the shins and ran into the
school.

The attacker - said to be between 30 and 40, six feet, slim, with dark, spiky
hair and a moustache fled on foot.

He was wearing a denim jacket and jeans, grey jumper, white polo shirt and black
shoes.

In February, a man tried to pull a nine-year-old boy into a car in nearby North
Balnagask Road.

The boy escaped after the incident outside the Golden Tee pub.

That attacker was described as in his 40s with a black moustache.  Police said
last night they could not yet link the incident's.

But he added: "Obviously we have to keep an open mind on that possibility."


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            June 8, 1994, Wednesday

METER MAN IN DOG TERROR;
METER READER ATTACKED BY PACK OF DOGS

SECTION: Page 9

LENGTH: 126 words


A shocked meter reader was savaged yesterday by a pack of dogs.

William Purves was trying to get into a house in Eschiels, near Peebles, when
the dogs, including an alsatian, ripped into his arms and legs.

He said last night: "I got no warning. I just went round the back of the house
and knocked on the back door.

"Then I heard barking, turned round and three dogs came at me.

"There were two red setters and an alsatian.  "It was the alsatian that did the
damage. The other two just barked." He struggled back to his ScottishPower van
and radioed for help before collapsing.

Ambulancemen found Mr Purves, 54, slumped behind the wheel and took him to Hay
Lodge Hospital, Peebles.

Last night he was recovering at his home in Galashiels.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 10, 1994

KILLING OF 'SPIDER IN WEB' ENDED ATTACKS;
Owen Bowcott on the terror campaign in Europe which left 11 people dead

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 531 words


ON THE evening of June 1, 1990, Major Michael Dillon-Lee was returning from a
mess party in Dortmund with his wife, Rosalyn.  As they approached their home, a
masked gunman appeared.

He opened fire from a distance of two feet with a Kalashnikov AK-47. His
accomplice, leaning out of a Mazda, started shooting with an FN-Browning pistol.

Major Dillon-Lee, aged 35, of the 32nd Heavy Regiment Royal Artillery, was hit
several times and died almost immediately. His attackers fled but were later
spotted near Dortmund railway station. There was a shoot-out in which a local
policeman was injured in the foot and the gunmen escaped.

The Dortmund shooting happened five days after two Australian lawyers, Stephen
Melrose and Nicholas Spanos, were killed in the Dutch town of Roermond. The IRA
unit had thought their clean-cut appearance denoted British officers on leave.

Both attacks came at the end of a sustained continental bombing and shooting
campaign by the Provisionals between March 1987 and June 1990. The targets were
British army bases and military personnel.  Altogether 11 people died and 47
were injured.

Sean Hick, aged 33, a butcher's son from the prosperous suburbs of Dublin, Paul
Hughes, 30, an electrician from near Newry and Donna Maguire, 27, the daughter
of a middle-class Newry businessman, were all arrested that June after Belgian
security forces found Ms Maguire in a wood allegedly looking for an IRA arms
cache. All three - and a fourth man, Gerard Harte - were tried in Holland on
charges of involvement in the Roermond attack but acquitted in 1991.

Mr Hick, Mr Hughes and Ms Maguire were then extradited to Germany.

The mastermind behind the attacks across the continent at the end of the 1980s
was Desmond Grew, from Co Armagh, on whose grave the headstone reads "May my
blood serve as a seed for freedom". Mr Grew, who had served four prison
sentences in Ireland, was described by the prosecutor in the Roermond trial as
an active and dedicated terrorist and the "spider in the web through which
others moved".

At one stage he was to have been an alibi witness for Sean Hick, testifying that
he was elsewhere when the two Australians were shot.

But in October 1990, Mr Grew was shot dead by the SAS outside an isolated
farmhouse in Co Armagh. The IRA subsequently admitted he had been on "active
service" at the time.

Since then the IRA's continental campaign has ceased. republican sources
questioned about its resumption refuse to comment.

Sinn Fein's self-styled prisoner of war department yesterday welcomed the
outcome of the Dortmund trial but protested that all three had now spent the
equivalent of a seven year jail sentence in Belgian, Dutch and German prisons.

"It was clear within a couple of months of the trial starting (in 1992) that
there wasn't enough evidence to sustain the charges," a republican spokesman
said.

So far the only person convicted over the IRA's continental campaign in those
years is Gerry Hanratty, from Belfast, who was jailed for 2 1/2 years for
firearms offences in June 1992. By that stage he had already served an
equivalent time in jail and was released.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 10, 1994, Friday

LOYALIST TERRORISTS SHOOT WELDER IN SHIPYARD ATTACK

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 553 words


The loyalist Ulster Volunteer Force today admitted murdering a Catholic workman
inside Belfast's Harland and Wolff shipyard.  The body of 50-year-old welder
Maurice O'Kane was found by workmates in a small compartment in the hold of a
tanker under construction in the yard late yesterday.  He had been shot in the
back.  RUC Assistant Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan said it was a "brutal,
cowardly, sectarian murder" of a family man doing nothing more than going about
his daily work.  He pledged no stone would be left unturned in the hunt for the
killers and those who tried to provoke sectarian fear in the workplace would be
thwarted.  Shipyard workers walked out in protest at the killing and the yard
closed for the day as a mark of respect to Mr O'Kane.  Joe Stewart, the company
personnel director said: "Harland and Wolff is totally stunned today. The
management and employees are shocked and horrified at this murder, which is a
tragedy for the family of Mr O'Kane and for the wider family of Harland and
Wolff.  "All employees have left work for the day as a visible mark of respect
to their colleague Maurice O'Kane and in a very firm attempt to show disgust and
solidarity." He said the company and unions had been working closely to ensure
an open environment in which all people could work freely without hinderance
based on belief or creed.  "If this murder is an attempt to divide the
workforce, the unions and management are determined that it will not succeed,
and in fact has had the reverse effect." The company has a largly Protestant
workforce and there have long been complaints from Catholic workers of threats.
Last year loyalist gunmen opened fire on a minibus carrying Catholic workers in
the Harbour Estate as they went to work in the neighbouring Shorts aircraft
factory. Several were hit and at least one killed.  Sinn Fein Belfast Councillor
Tom Hartley said the shipyard killing was part of a "sinister and murderous
campaign against Catholic workers".  He added: "This attack, like so many others
recently is part of a planned campaign against Catholic workers. Loyalist death
squads are not only trying to drive Catholics from their homes in isolated or
vulnerable areas but also from thir jobs." It is understood that two of Mr
O'Kane's sons also work in the shipyard.
    Meanwhile the UVF also admitted carrying out a bomb attack on the Armagh
home of the elderly mother of former Sinn Fein local councillor Tommy Carroll. A
2lb bomb inside a flask was thrown through the living room window of her house
in Callanbridge Road early today. It lodged in blinds and failed to explode.
    Police in Belfast were also today questioning three men arrested in a house
in the loyalist Shankill Road area with an under car booby trap bomb containing
two pounds of commercial explosives.

East Belfast DUP MP Peter Robinson, in whose constituency the shipyard is sited,
condemned the murder as "horrific and brutal".  Mr Robinson said every citizen
had the right to life and the right to work in safety without fear of attack or
threat.  He blamed the Government for the increase in violence and instability
and said its efforts to buy off terrorism had encouraged greater terrorism.
"Whilst the Government plays politics with paramilitaries, people suffer."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 17, 1994, Friday

'FIREBALL' TERROR AS ATTACKER SPRAYS EXAM PUPILS

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1066 words


Pupils taking exams were sprayed with a "giant fireball" today after a man armed
with an improvised flamethrower burst into a top grammar school.  More than 30
teenagers sitting their final year exams at Sullivan Upper School in Holywood,
Co Down, scattered in fear of their lives during the attack in the assembly
hall.  Six boys were burned, three of them seriously, as flames lashed the
stunned children. The boys were in hospital tonight but none of their lives was
in danger.  During the attack some pupils fled with their clothes alight while
girls, screaming hysterically, were hurt in a frantic scramble to get away.  The
attacker, believed to be a former pupil, was wearing a boiler suit. He escaped
in a green Skoda car which he later abandoned.  Police tonight named a man they
want to interview in connection with the incident - Garnett Stephen Bell, aged
about 40, from east Belfast.  It was also revealed that soon after the
flamethrower attack a fire destroyed his brother's home in the fishing port of
Portavogie, Co Down.  Senior RUC officers ruled out any terrorist connection.
The children were 15 minutes from the end of their A-level French and technology
exams when the attacker struck.  He pulled out a cigarette lighter and ignited a
fire extinguisher which had been converted into a flame thrower.  One boy's tie
was on fire as he joined the stampede to escape the hall. Another boy's cardigan
was ablaze and one girl cut her hand when she broke the glass for the emergency
alarm. Desks and exam papers were tossed to the side.  The badly injured boys
were treated for burns at the Royal Victoria Hospital, while the others were
taken to the Ulster Hospital, Dundonald, Co Down.  School headteacher John Young
stressed that no lives were in danger. He added that the school would reopen on
Monday when exams could continue.  Nicholas Fell, 17, who had been sitting near
the back of the hall, said he looked up from his papers to see the attacker.
"The guy came in. Nobody knew who he was. He just stood there and sprayed
everybody. It looked as if he was carrying a fire extinguisher of some sort. He
said nothing.  "Nobody seems to have got a good look at him. Everybody saw him
coming in, but after that there was complete panic. Some of the pupils had their
clothes on fire, and some of my friends were injured quite badly.  "Somebody
sounded the fire alarm and everybody scrambled out as if it was a fire drill. It
was just like a giant fireball coming down the room.  "Nobody seemed to be able
to see anything. Everybody was making for the doors and were not interested in
getting a look at the man." Gordon Rice, also 17, was sitting at his desk 6ft
from the man when he was hit.  "As I got up the flames struck my back and sides.
I just ran for the door. My cardigan was on fire and somebody was slapping my
back to get the fire out." Sullivan Upper is one of Northern Ireland's top
schools. It has an outstanding academic record. About one fifth of the 1,000
pupils are Catholic. The school motto is: "The gentle hand is uppermost." The
staff of 60 were horrified by the attack.  Mr Young said: "The staff and pupils
responded to this utterly unpredictable incident in a measured, responsible and
calm way. Our pupils are obviously upset about the incident, and counselling
arrangements are being put in place." Parent John Hanna, a local government
officer whose son Jonathan, 17, cut his hand as he fled, said: "You cannot
expect schools to provide 100% protection for something like this. It's
incredible." Emma Mawhinney, 18, who comforted friends caught up in the attack,
said: "Nobody can believe it happened. It is so disgusting. It is horrible
somebody could do that."

The Holywood incident revived the "impossible" issue of school security, said
the National Association of Schoolmasters/Union of Women Teachers.  "It is
difficult to find words which could come anywhere near reflecting the total
sense of shock and outrage everyone must feel in the wake of this dastardly
deed," said general secretary Nigel de Gruchy.  "Unfortunately, coming so soon
after the wanton killing of a child in a school in Middlesbrough, it again
raises the issue of school security.  "Schools are placed in the impossible
position of wanting to remain part of their communities without becoming
fortresses."

It is believed the man is a former pupil of the school.  RUC officers are
thought to have recoverd the car.  Headmaster John Young said: "The man entered
the grounds of the school and went straight to the exam hall with what appeared
to be a fire extinguisher. He used it as some sort of flame thrower."

The three most seriously injured boys were taken to the Royal Victoria Hospital
and three others to the Ulster Hospital at Dundonald.  Some of the terrified
youngsters tried to escape through the stage door. One girl cut her hand trying
to smash the fire alarm glass.  Pupils said there was complete chaos. One girl
said: "Nobody can believe it happened. It is so disgusting. It is horrible
somebody could do that." The attack is not thought to have any terrorist link.
Nicholas Fell, 17, was in the exam hall. He said: "It was complete blind panic.
Everybody was scrambling for the door.  "The guy came in - nobody knew who he
was. He just stood there and sprayed everybody. It looked as if he was carrying
a fire extinguisher of some sort. He said nothing.  "Nobody seems to have had a
good look at him. Everybody saw him coming in but after that there was complete
panic.  "Some of the pupils had their clothes on fire and some of my friends
were injured quite badly.  "Somebody sounded the fire alarm and everybody
scrambled out as if it was a fire drill. It was just like a giant fireball
coming down the room.  "Nobody seemed to be able to see anything. Everybody was
making for the doors and weren't interested in getting a look at the man." A
Royal Victoria Hospital spokesman said: "We have three of them here. One is very
serious, but stable. The other two are described as serious but stable." He was
unable to give their ages.  All three were being treated in the burns unit while
officials attempt to contact their relatives.  At the Ulster Hospital, a
spokesman said of the three boys: "They were treated for minor burn injuries -
two of them were very superficial - and all three have been allowed home."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             June 21, 1994, Tuesday

MISSILE TERROR ROCKS FUNERAL;
IRA rocket attack on police

SECTION: Page 4

LENGTH: 230 words


An IRA rocket attack was launched on police yesterday as Ulster began burying
the victims of its latest spiral of madness.

The attack on the Protestant Shankill Road in Belfast coincided with the funeral
of one of two men shot dead in the area last Thursday.

The missile was fired from the adjoining Catholic Falls District. No one was
seriously hurt.

The attack happened as hundreds lined the road for the funeral of suspected
loyalist Ulster Volunteer Force top officer Colin Craig.  Earlier the funeral of
the other victim, shopkeeper David Hamilton, took place without incident.

It was in reprisal for the killings by the republican Irish National Liberation
Army that the UVF carried out the massacre of six Catholics in the little
village pub in Loughinisland, Co Down, on Saturday.

And yesterday the anguish of the area filled the local school's assembly hall.

Headmaster Leo Flanagan said: "Little children crying pathetically for their
daddies. If the people who did this could only see the pain." Sinn Fein
President Gerry Adams yesterday urged that there should be no IRA retaliation
for the massacre.

And he indicated that the Sinn Fein response to the Downing Street Declaration
would be made within days.

Meanwhile, Royal Irish Regiment soldiers were among several men last night being
quizzed about loyalist terrorism in Northern Ireland.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 21, 1994, Tuesday

LOYALISTS 'SEE POLITICAL BOOST FROM TERROR ATTACKS'

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 144 words


Loyalist terrorist groups believe horrific attacks such as the slaughter of six
men in the Loughinisland pub can forward their political demands, a Protestant
churchman who has talked with them said today.  East Belfast Minister, the Rev
Roy Magee, has met the Ulster Freedom Fighters and Ulster Volunteer Force in the
past in a bid to get them to stop. He said today: "I think the message they are
trying to get across is ... 'We are a force to be reckoned with. We are here, we
have got to be addressed. You cannot ignore us"'.  He said the loyalist groups
had been disturbed because the republican paramilitaries "appear to have got a
lot for Sinn Fein on the coat-tails of violence and what is sauce for the goose
is sauce for the gander".  But he told BBC Radio Ulster the majority of
Protestants sympathised with the victims of Loughinisland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            June 23, 1994, Thursday

TERROR ALERT TO HOLIDAY SCOTS;
Bomb attack in Turkey

SECTION: Page 17

LENGTH: 170 words


Thousands of Scots tourists were warned last night to be on the alert after a
series of terrorist bomb attacks in Turkey.

British visitor Joanna Griffiths was fighting for life with serious head
injuries.

She was reported to be having brain surgery last night.

Joanna and her mother were hurt in a bomb attack on the seaside resort of
Marmaris.

Three members of another British family were hurt in one of two explosions in
the town.

The bombs were hidden in waste bins in a park and at an ice cream stall.

On Tuesday, three Britons were among eight tourists and four Turks injured when
bombs exploded at the resort of Fethiyes.

Scots girl Lesley Suna, who works in Marmaris, said: "The British are being very
calm.

"They are attuned to the idea of bombs going off because of the IRA.  But the
other Europeans are nervous." Kurdish rebels say they plan more attacks in
Central and western Turkey - areas popular with tourists.

The Foreign Office has advised all tourists to be extra vigilant.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 24, 1994

LOYALIST BOMBINGS RISE WORRIES ARMY;
Ulster Volunteer Force spearheads 'dramatic' increase in terrorist attacks using
stolen ICI quarry explosive - IRA switches to smaller-scale targets

BYLINE: John Mullin In Ballykilner

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 579 words


THE number of bomb attacks by loyalist terrorists has doubled since the Downing
Street declaration, senior army officers in Northern Ireland revealed yesterday.

An army bomb disposal expert said in the past 12-18 months the Protestant
terrorists' advance had been "fairly dramatic".  He said the biggest threat was
still from the IRA, but the rise in loyalist attacks was "very worrying. I don't
think you need to be a bomb disposal man to say there is an increased likelihood
of attacks in the Republic."

Outlawed loyalist groups are now responsible for more than a third of terrorist
devices in the province. Army figures show the Provisional IRA responsible for
108 bomb attacks, excluding incendiaries, so far this year, a similar level to
1993.

The Ulster Volunteer Force, responsible for 18 of Northern Ireland's 43
terrorist-related deaths this year, now has a supply of detonators and
commercial explosive - ICI-manufactured Powergel 900 - which is thought to have
been stolen from quarries on the British mainland. The Ulster Freedom Fighters,
linked to the Ulster Defence Association, is still using gunpowder packed into
piping, a primitive though effective method.

The UVF packed Powergel round a breeze block to kill a 38-year-old Catholic man
in Portadown, Co Armagh, three months ago.  Francis Brown, who was killed by the
booby trap as he checked his lorry outside his home, was the first victim of a
loyalist terrorist bomb for many years.

The UVF has since used Powergel, less powerful than Semtex, in four more
attacks. One was in Dublin last month, when 30lbs of explosive failed to go off
at the Widow Scallans bar, where a Sinn Fein fundraising meeting was taking
place. A senior army officer said the bomb could have caused "a tremendous death
toll".

The UVF shot dead a doorman in that attack, and also planted much smaller bombs
at the City Hall, Belfast, at a scrapyard in Newry, and at the Sinn Fein offices
in west Belfast over the past month.

It is understood no warning was given for any of the attacks, but only the City
Hall device exploded, injuring two.

Now loyalist terrorists have a supply of commercial explosive and detonators,
bomb disposal experts are expecting them to improve their techniques quickly and
to attack more frequently on both sides of the Irish border.

One member of the Explosive Ordnance Disposal Squadron, The Royal Logistics
Corps, said: "Both groups are awful, but the Protestant paramilitaries are maybe
even more callous. They will place a device on the window-sill of a Catholic
family living in a Protestant estate, throw stones at the window until somebody
comes, and detonate the device."

The bomb disposal officers, demonstrating devices used by terrorists in Northern
Ireland at the army barracks in Ballykilner, Co Down, also noted a change in IRA
tactics since the Shankill Road bombing which killed nine Protestant civilians
and Thomas Begley, the IRA man who planted it, last October.

The IRA has switched towards more selective targets of members of the security
forces, using devices like grenade launchers, and relatively small amounts of
the Czech-made plastic explosive, Semtex. It has stopped using van bombs,
containing up to 2,000lbs of home-made explosive, which last year devastated
several towns.

The switch was reflected in the amount of explosive army personnel had
recovered, down from 9,372kg last year to 1,635kg so far this year.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             June 26, 1994, Sunday

TERRORISTS ATTACK CONVOY

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 63 words


Terrorists attacked an Army convoy on the outskirts of West Belfast today. A
missile was fired as four military vehicles travelled along Suffolk Road. The
device missed and nobody was hurt.  It was the second attack on the security
forces within 12 hours.  Earlier at Pomeroy, County Tyrone, a mortar was fired
at the village police station. Again nobody was hurt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 27, 1994, Monday

Terror attack

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 35 words


Terrorists fired a rocket at four Army vehicles on the outskirts of West
Belfast, but the device missed. At Pomeroy, Co Tyrone, a mortar was fired at the
village police station, but no one was injured.


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             July 2, 1994, Saturday

TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK AT HANDICAPPED WEDDING

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 329 words


A man was seriously injured and several people treated for shock today after
terrorists mounted a mortar bomb attack on an Army base during the wedding of a
handicapped couple in Belfast.  The wounded man was a bus driver ferrying guests
to the service at St Bridgid's church in Derryvolgie Avenue, in the city's
Malone Road area.  He sustained a broken leg and a serious flesh wound.  A
doctor who was in the neighbourhood bound up his wounds until an ambulance
arrived to take him to the nearby City Hospital.  He was injured occurred when
one of three mortars mounted on a van misfired. Cars in the vicinity and nearby
houses were damaged by the blast.  But the actual targets of the attack, members
of the Royal Irish Regiment based a short distance away, escaped injury.  At
least one device landed inside the barracks area but caused no serious damage.
The attack took place as one wedding was ending and another was about to get
under way.  The handicapped couple, Diane McCreight and Joseph Toner, both 28
and from Belfast, would normally have been in wheelchairs - but they were
supported on crutches as they made their wedding vows.  Several other disabled
people were at the wedding Mass and many were later said to have been "badly
shocked" by the mortar attack.  The parish priest Father Liam McSorley said:
"One wedding had just started after another when the explosions were heard.
Everyone was very frightened." An eyewitness said the first mortar "shot out of
the roof of the van near the church, peeling it back like a banana".  At the
City Hospital the local chaplain, Methodist minister the Rev Harold Good, said
from what he had been told the wounded bus driver "is not in a critical
condition".  Hospital spokesmen said he was "comfortable".  A video taken by a
wedding guest is being examined by RUC detectives. They believe it may provide
vital clues as to the identity of the terrorists and their movements shortly
before the attack.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                              July 3, 1994, Sunday

NEWS UPDATE;
Terror raid from church;
Mortar attack in church car park

SECTION: Page 7

LENGTH: 39 words


A church car park was used to launch an attack on a south Belfast military base
yesterday.

A man was injured and wedding guests suffered severe shock when three mortars
were fired from St Bridgid's RC church in Derrvolgie Avenue.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             July 11, 1994, Monday

TERRORIST VICTIM DIES;
Man dies after being shot in terrorist attack

SECTION: Page 12

LENGTH: 34 words


A man died yesterday three weeks after being shot in a terror attack.

Billy Corrigan, a 32year-old Protestant, was hit by gunfire near Newtonabbey,
Belfast, last month.

Police blame Loyalists.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             July 17, 1994, Sunday

TERROR ATTACK ON FERGIE'S PAL;
Gangster in fight for life;
William Lyle attacked outside Tuxedo Princess disco

BYLINE: Charles Lavery

SECTION: Page 21

LENGTH: 240 words


A gangster was fighting for his life last night after a vicious attack on the
streets of Glasgow. William Lyle, a close pal of Rangers star Ian Ferguson, was
beaten to within an inch of his life by five thugs, wielding baseball bats and
knives.

And, in a chilling anonymous phone call to the Sunday Mail, one of the five men
declared: "Lyle was getting too big for his boots. We had to slap him down." The
man, calling on a mobile phone, added: "We wanted to murder him. He's lucky he's
not dead." Lyle was in a taxi early yesterday morning outside the Tuxedo
Princess disco boat when the attack took place.

The gang of five smashed in the taxi windows, dragged him from the car and set
about him with knives and bats.

The taxi driver was forced to abandon his car and flee the scene.

Lyle went through emergency surgery at the city's Royal Infirmary, where friends
took him after the attack.

In June, 1991, Lyle was stabbed and slashed by thugs hunting the proceeds of a
#150,000 bank robbery.

His best pal was Rangers ace Ian Ferguson, who paid regular visits to him when
he was in Barlinnie Prison.

The Glasgow gunman has more than 50 previous convictions for offences involving
guns, robberies and drugs.

A police spokesman confirmed they were investigating the incident and added: "We
would like anyone who was in the area at the time to come forward." Early today,
Lyle's condition was said to be stable.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                 July 27, 1994

HUNT FOR THE WOMAN BOMBER;
13 hurt and Princess Margaret's palace apartment damaged as terrorist attacks
Israeli Embassy

BYLINE: David Williams

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2214 words


A MIDDLE-AGED woman with a Harrods bag broke through one of London's tightest
security cordons yesterday.

She parked a massive car bomb almost directly outside the Israeli Embassy in
West London, 250 yards from Kensington Palace.

Then she hurried off to disappear among shoppers in nearby Kensington High
Street.

Security guards and police had no time to act before the bomb went off, with a
blast heard eight miles away.

The 30lb of high explosive in the grey Audi shattered frontages of buildings for
hundreds of yards around. Daggers of broken glass crashed down from the nearby
Royal Garden Hotel, spearing past terrified workmen on scaffolding.  Plate glass
shopfronts streets away disintegrated into tiny pieces and shoppers were blown
to the ground.

Amazingly, no one was killed; but 13 people were hurt, one seriously.

Parts of the Audi smashed into the wall of Princess Margaret's private
apartments at Kensington Palace. All her windows were blown in, but the Princess
escaped unhurt.

The Duke and Duchess of Gloucester and Prince Michael of Kent were also in the
Palace when the bomb went off. Princess Diana was away on holiday in Spain.

The attack came only hours after Israeli Premier Yitzhak Rabin's historic peace
handshake with King Hussein of Jordan.

Police fear it marks the beginning of a bombing campaign against Israeli targets
in Europe. Commander David Tucker, head of the Anti-Terrorist Squad, said the
bombing marked a 'return to the streets of London of Middle East terrorism'. At
the top of the list of suspects is the Iranian-backed Hezbollah group, which
held Terry Waite, John McCarthy and other Western hostages in Beirut.

The woman who drove the car was said to be 'of Mediterranean appearance'.  She
was around 55, with a thin face and large plastic-rimmed glasses. She had wavy,
light brown hair and was 'elegantly dressed' in a navy skirt and jacket, a
light-coloured blouse and blue and white sandals. She was wearing a circular
pendant, coloured red in the middle.

The Audi 100 car had been stolen from Streatham, South London, and fitted with
false number plates. The woman drove it into Palace Green shortly before 12.10pm
and parked outside private flats at No. 1, next door to the Israeli buildings.

An Israeli security official asked her to move the car elsewhere but she jumped
out and hurried off.  As the security guard alerted police, the bomb exploded.

Mrs Doris Perez, whose Israeli husband works in the Embassy, said she saw the
woman park the car. She said: 'A security man said to my husband that she was
suspicious and I saw him talking on a radio.

'Just after that the bomb went off, and it was chaos. There was this huge bang
and everybody ducked and grabbed their heads and glass was falling down on
everyone like rain.'

Scaffolder Maurice Murphy, who was working at the Royal Garden Hotel, said: 'I
was blown out across the road in front of the embassy. It also blew a police
guard out into the street.

'I tried to get into the side entrance of the hotel but collapsed and the next
thing I knew I was in hospital.'

Fellow builder Brian Jennings said: 'There was a tremendous blast, and the glass
rained down on us. It sounded terrifying as it ricocheted through the
scaffolding.

'We all scattered for cover because we thought it had loosened the poles and
they would come crashing down on us.'

Colleague John Earlham said a massive plume of smoke rose up over the

embassy. He said: 'We could hear someone screaming out but we couldn't see where
it was coming from. We all got out quick in case there was another one.'

Peter Seabright, a hotel casino worker, helped carry one casualty to safety.
'She had blood coming from her leg and couldn't walk easily,' he said. 'She was
clearly in shock. The embassy looked a right mess.'

A few yards away, Kensington Fire Station was a casualty itself - its doors
blown out and jagged glass all over the floor.

Inside, some of the injured were being treated while shoppers huddled for
safety.

Student Adam Walford, 15, had been studying for his GCSEs at a tutorial college
opposite when he was struck in the hand by a shard of glass.

'There was a hell of a bang and I saw that my hand was bleeding,' he said. 'I'm
very, very lucky.'

Kathy McKaigh, 22, her left leg still bleeding from under her bandages, found
herself a terrorist victim after the skylight of her office roof caved in. 'I
was walking into the office when I was hit by the glass,' she said.

In shops and cafes, windows were punched out by the blast.

As he swept up shards of glass from a pizzeria opposite the road nicknamed
Embassy Row, Kaini Rez pointed to where a couple had been sitting drinking
coffee outside when one of the huge windows smothered them in glass.  'It was
incredible,' he said. 'The woman had bits of glass sticking all over her. But
when we had brushed them away, she had just a few cuts. She and her husband
walked off saying they didn't want a fuss.'

Accountant Neville Mehta said he felt the blast as he stood in Kensington High
Street. 'I knew straight away it was a bomb. The whole street seemed to shake.

'It was amazing there wasn't more panic. Most people didn't seem to react at
all. Even as people were being directed away from the scene, more people were
calmly walking towards it.'

Eyewitnesses said Kensington Palace was left looking like a 'building site',
with more than 40 windows broken and frames blown out. A police source said
Princess Margaret had had a lucky escape. The Princess of Wales, whose
apartments were undamaged, was told of the attack in Spain.

Scotland Yard's Commander Tucker said a floor above the parking area in the
block of flats had collapsed. 'I am a little surprised that there were so few
casualties,' he added.

The attack was a major breach of security in what is supposed to be one of
London's safest streets, where armed police and security staff from embassies
patrol constantly.

Access is controlled by a private security firm whose officers check all
vehicles entering from Kensington High Street or Bayswater Road.

The embassies, which include those of the Lebanon, the Netherlands, Romania and
the Czech Republic, are guarded by armed police from Scotland Yard's Royalty and
Diplomatic Protection Group.

Officers from the same unit also provide security for the royal apartments at
Kensington Palace.

The area bristles with security paraphernalia, including infra-red cameras.

Police hope the woman bomber may have been picked up on one of the many videos
scanning the street.

Foreign Office Minister Douglas Hogg met Israeli charge d'affaires Hadas
Handelsman to express his sympathy after the attack. He also spoke to Mr Rabin.
Mr Hogg said: 'It is a most shocking offence, and we will do what we can to
capture these people.'

Scotland Yard later approved a temporary ban on parking outside the main
buildings of London's Jewish community.

Moslem extremists opposed to Middle East peace are suspected of being behind a
blast in Buenos Aires which killed almost 100 people last week.

/Shoppers

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC:  TOP: With pavements covered in broken glass from shattered store
windows shoppers and office workers flee along the road ABOVE: Racked by tension
and fear as sirens wail and people scream, it all becomes too much for on woman
- and she breaks down in tears LEFT: At the entrance to the embassy road near
Kensington High Street, a blanket-covered victim is lifted aboard an ambulance
RIGHT: Part of the Israeli Embassy building reduced t a heap of rubble by the
force of the car bomb blast

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                 July 27, 1994

1am BOMBERS HIT LONDON AGAIN;
Israelis are the targets once more hours after drive-in woman terrorist attacks
their embassy

BYLINE: Luke Harding,And,David Williams

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2374 words


TERRORIST car bombers struck again against Israelis in London early today.

Six people were hurt by an explosion outside the Israeli Information Centre in
Finchley High Road.

The blast sent a huge plume of smoke into the air, shattered shop windows and
hurled debris across the street.

The entrance to Balfour House, which houses several prominent Jewish
organisations, including the Zionist Federation, was reduced to a 'blackened
wreck.'

Witnesses reported seeing several people being treated for cuts and shock.

The 1 a.m. blast came only 13 hours after a huge explosion badly damaged the
Israeli Embassy in West London and injured 14 people. The car bomb was left by a
middle-aged woman of 'Mediterranean appearance.'

It confirmed fears of a new terror campaign by extremist Moslem groups opposed
to the Middle East peace process.

The Finchley offices house the World Zionist Organisation, the Jewish Agency for
Israel and the Jewish Philanthropic Association for Israel and the Middle East.

Civil servant Kaiser Jamal, 44, whose flat overlooks the office, said: 'All my
windows were blown out and the mirrors were shattered.

'There was a fire in the middle of the road and there is a heap of white ashen
metal which is still smouldering.

'The windows of the pub opposite have been completely blown out.  Everyone's
windows here have been blown in. There was just a huge bang and all the fire
alarms went off. All the cars in the street had their windscreens blown in.'

Estate agent Guy Fisher, 28, said: 'There was the most enormous explosion. My
windows shook. I had heard the first explosion earlier in the day and it was
identical. It was absolutely deafening.'

Several people were taken to the Coach Stop pub for first aid. None of the
victims was seriously hurt.

Hours earlier Commander David Tucker, head of the Anti-Terrorist Squad, said the
Israeli Embassy bombing marked a 'return to the streets of London of Middle East
terrorism'.

The blast, in Kensington, came after the woman parked a stolen car packed with
explosives right outside the heavily guarded building. A security man challenged
her, but she hurried away, carrying a Harrods bag, and disappeared among
shoppers in nearby Kensington High Street.

Before police and guards could act, the bomb exploded in a blast heard eight
miles away. The 30lb of high explosive in the grey Audi shattered frontages of
buildings for hundreds of yards around. Daggers of broken glass crashed down
from the nearby Royal Garden Hotel, spearing past terrified workmen on
scaffolding.

Plate glass shopfronts streets away disintegrated into tiny pieces, and shoppers
were blown to the ground. Amazingly, no one was killed and the worst injury was
a broken arm.

Parts of the Audi smashed into the wall of Princess Margaret's private
apartments at Kensington Palace. All her windows were blown in, but the Princess
escaped unhurt.

The Duke and Duchess of Gloucester and Prince Michael of Kent were also in the
Palace when the bomb went off. Princess Diana was away on holiday in Spain.

The attack came only hours after Israeli Premier Yitzhak Rabin's historic peace
handshake with King Hussein of Jordan.

Police fear it marks the beginning of a bombing campaign against Israeli targets
in Europe. At the top of the list of suspects is the Iranian-backed Hezbollah,
which held Terry Waite, John McCarthy and other Westerners hostage in Beirut.

The woman who drove the car was said to be in her mid-50s, with a thin face and
large plastic-rimmed glasses. She had long, wavy, light brown hair and was
'elegantly dressed' in a navy skirt and jacket, light-coloured blouse and
blue-and-white sandals. She wore a circular pendant coloured red in the middle.

The Audi 100 had been stolen from Streatham, South London, and fitted with false
number plates. The woman drove it into Palace Green just after noon and parked
outside private flats at No. 1, next door to the Israeli buildings.

Mrs Doris Perez, whose Israeli husband works in the embassy, said she saw the
woman park the car. She said: 'A security man said to my husband that she looked
suspicious and I saw him talking on a radio.

'Just after that the bomb went off, and it was chaos. There was this huge bang
and everybody ducked and grabbed their heads, and glass was falling down on
everyone like rain.'

Rachel Gordon, an embassy press officer, said: 'It was such a huge, huge
explosion. Parts of the building just collapsed.'

Scaffolder Maurice Murphy, who was working at the Royal Garden Hotel, said: 'I
was blown out across the road in front of the embassy. It also blew a police
guard out into the street.

'I tried to get into the side entrance of the hotel but collapsed and the next
thing I knew I was in hospital.'

Fellow builder Brian Jennings said: 'There was a tremendous blast, and the glass
rained down on us. It sounded terrifying as it ricocheted through the
scaffolding.

'We all scattered because we thought it had loosened the poles and they would
come crashing down on us.'

Colleague John Earlham said: 'We could hear someone screaming out but we
couldn't see where it was coming from. We all got out quickly in case there was
another bomb.'

Peter Seabright, a hotel casino worker, helped carry one casualty to safety.
'She had blood coming from her leg and couldn't walk easily,' he said. 'She was
clearly in shock. The embassy looked a right mess.'

A few yards away, Kensington Fire Station was a casualty itself - its doors
blown out and jagged glass all over the floor.

Inside, some of the injured were being treated while shoppers huddled for
safety.

In shops and cafes, windows were punched out by the blast.

As he swept up shards of glass from a pizzeria, Kaini Rez pointed to where a
couple had been sitting drinking coffee outside when one of the huge windows
smothered them in glass.

'It was incredible,' he said. 'The woman had bits of glass sticking all over
her. But when we had brushed them away, she had only a few cuts. She and her
husband walked off, saying they didn't want a fuss.'

Eyewitnesses said Kensington Palace was left looking like a 'building site',
with more than 40 windows broken and frames blown out. A police source said
Princess Margaret had had a lucky escape. The Princess of Wales, whose
apartments were undamaged, was told of the attack in Spain.

Commander Tucker said there had been extensive damage to the embassy and the
flats next door, where a floor above the parking area collapsed. 'I am a little
surprised that there were so few casualties,' he said.

The attack was a major breach of security in 'Embassy Row', supposedly one of
London's safest streets, where armed police and embassy security staff patrol
constantly.

Access is controlled by a private security firm whose officers check all
vehicles entering from Kensington High Street or Bayswater Road.

The embassies are guarded by armed police from Scotland Yard's Royalty and
Diplomatic Protection Group, which also provides security for Kensington Palace.

The area bristles with security paraphernalia, including infra-red cameras.
Police hope the woman bomber may have been picked up on one of the videos
scanning the street.

Foreign Office Minister Douglas Hogg, who spoke to Mr Rabin after the attack,
said: 'It is a most shocking offence, and we will do what we can to capture
these people.'

Scotland Yard later approved a temporary ban on parking outside the main
buildings of London's Jewish community.

Israeli sources say Hezbollah has been establishing terror cells in major
Western cities in recent months. The group is believed to have carried out last
week's bombing of a Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires, which killed almost
100 people.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Twisted metal: The remains of the Audi which carried the Kensington
embassy bomb

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 29, 1994

MAJOR ATTACKS LIBYA AND IRAN OVER TERROR;
Bombs 'will not derail Middle East peace process'

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 618 words


Patrick Wintour, Political Correspondent

JOHN Major yesterday roundly condemned countries such as Iran and Libya which
sponsor international terrorism, but stopped short of accusing either country of
being involved in this week's two bombings of London's Jewish community.

Speaking to the Middle East Council in London, he said "we cannot yet be certain
who lay behind these acts", or whether they were connected with the bombings in
Buenos Aires.

However, he said: "We must seek out the perpetrators and bring them to justice.
It is unacceptable for any state to tolerate, let alone support, terrorism."

Although he refused to join the Israelis in pointing the finger directly at
Tehran, he selected Iran and Libya for general criticism. "Iran's behaviour
presents another serious challenge to the international community. Many aspects
of Iran's behaviour are simply unacceptable, and indeed threatening: on human
rights, terrorism, her military and nuclear ambitions, her attempts to undermine
the (Middle East) peace process." He insisted that Iran would have to change if
it were to be allowed into the peace process and the international community.

Turning to Libya, he said sanctions would not be lifted until the country
renounced terrorism irrevocably and handed over the two Libyans suspected of
planting the Lockerbie bomb for trial in Scotland.

He declined to speculate on whether the bombings indicated the West was on the
threshold of a co-ordinated bombing programme designed to destroy the peace
process, but said: "Terrorism is the enemy of us all. Terrorism has been
directed at those who seek peace and progress in the Middle East."

But Mr Major insisted that optimism surrounding the peace process would not be
dispelled. "We deeply respect Islam. We do not regard it as a threat. It is
completely wrong to equate the extremism of a few in the Middle East with the
religion of Islam."

Scotland Yard last night issued an artist's impression of the woman believed to
have driven the grey Audi 100 car containing the bomb which blew up outside the
Israeli embassy. She is described as aged 55 -60, thin-faced, with wavy light
brown hair and wearing large plastic-rimmed glasses.

David Pallister writes: Wembley conference centre is coming under increasing
pressure to ban a meeting next weekend of an Islamic group which has openly
called for the murder of Jews and the hijacking of Israeli aircraft.

The Islamic Liberation Party, or Hizbut ut-Tahrir, which is banned in many
Middle East states as a subversive organisation, expects about 12,000 to attend
its conference at the Wembley Arena.

Concern about its anti-semitic activities have been expressed by Jewish and
student organisations for at least five years.  Its literature has been referred
on at least two occasions to the Attorney -General's office as inciting racial
hatred. No action has been taken.

The party is fiercely opposed to the Arab-Israeli peace plan and in January
three of its members were sentenced to death in Jordan for plotting to
assassinate King Hussein. It has been responsible for several attempted coups in
other Middle East countries.

Brent council passed a resolution on Monday, the day before the bombings,
calling on the Home Secretary to ban the meeting, despite a plea from the Brent
Islamic Forum to allow it to go ahead in the interests of good community
relations.

But according to the Home Office, the secretary of state has no powers to ban a
meeting on private property. The police can limit its size and timing only if
they believe there is a threat to people or property. Scotland Yard said last
night it had no plans to intervene.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             July 31, 1994, Sunday

Bomb alert Britain ignored; Arabs and Jews in London claim that the authorities
turned a deaf ear to their warnings of probable terrorist attacks

BYLINE: ADEL DARWISH and NICK COHEN

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS PAGE; Page 8

LENGTH: 1146 words


FOR ALMOST a year before the bomb exploded outside the Israeli embassy in
Kensington Palace Gardens, Arab diplomats, the Board of Deputies of British Jews
and officials in the embassy itself were warning the Government that Middle East
terrorism could return to the streets of London.

Last week, after two car bombings, no one wanted to rock the boat and distract
the search for suspects by bluntly criticising MI5, the security service, in
public. But in private Arabs and Jews were saying the same thing: the British
did not listen.

According to the only public statement that MI5 has ever given, the idea that an
apparently experienced terrorist could drive a stolen car into the street next
to the embassy - one of the most heavily protected buildings in London - park
and walk away leaving a bomb behind, was absurd.

Stella Rimington, its director general, proudly stated in her Dimbleby lecture
on 12 June that the security service had made a significant impact in the fight
against Middle East terrorists operating in London.

''We have helped to prevent the intelligence services of a number of Middle
Eastern states from carrying out campaigns of murder against opponents in this
country,'' she said.

Last week, Middle Eastern diplomats were recalling her words and strongly
criticising MI5 and MI6 for their ''old- fashioned approach'' to modern
terrorism.

''They MI5 & MI6 were only concerned with dealing with individual terror attacks
or someone like Colonel Gaddafi or Saddam Hussein sending an assassin to kill an
opponent in London,'' said one diplomat. ''Beirut-style car bombs are different
and they were not ready for them.''

He and Israeli officials criticised the ''relaxed'' attitude of the security
service to information about possible attacks from Islamic extremists.

''They thought London was a difficult target for a terrorist attack from our
part of the world,'' said an Arab intelligence officer arriving in London last
week to help MI5 and the police find the bombers, ''but there are too many fish
swimming in a very large pond . . . London has become an Arab capital, my
friend.''

Just how many fundamentalist opponents of the Israeli/PLO deal there are in
London now, and how many of them would be willing to go beyond legitimate
criticism of a settlement that leaves hundreds of thousands of Palestinians
homeless, is the subject of bitter controversy.

A year ago MI5 was told by Mossad, the Israeli intelligence service, that
Britain had become a major base for Hamas leaders who had direct links with
murder squads.

The claim followed the arrest of two high-ranking Hamas operatives, Mohammad
Salach and Mohammad Jalad. The Palestinians, with US citizenship, had passed
through London carrying $ 600,000 ( pounds 400,000) for rebuilding the
organisation after Israel expelled more than 400 Hamas members to Lebanon.

Israeli sources said then that the men were briefed in London by a senior Hamas
agent before leaving for the West Bank. The agent, whose name is well known to
British intelligence officers, continues to live in London and operate freely.

British Jewish organisations, most notably the board of deputies, backed the
Israeli calls for Hamas and Hizbollah to be labelled as proscribed organisations
under the Prevention of Terrorism Act.

They lobbied John Major and Michael Howard, the Home Secretary, to have the law
changed.

By the spring of this year, the demands had become insistent. Two suicide
car-bomb attacks in Israel - one in September 1993 and one in April this year,
which left 12 dead - led some MI5, MI6 and Scotland Yard officers to share the
Israeli concern.

According to an Israeli Radio report at the time, which was based on an
intelligence leak, Israeli and British officials started working together to
have Hamas declared a terrorist organisation in Britain.

But no ban came. British officials defended their decision by saying that the
Israelis had cried wolf many times in the past.

A successful intelligence strategy should be based on specific warnings about
specific crimes rather than general bans on organisations the Israelis did not
like, they added.

Hamas and Hizbollah may be fighting the Israelis and PLO leadership in the
Middle East but that did not automatically mean they were planning crimes in
London.

When Jordan, Egypt and other Arab countries joined the Israelis in criticising
the British authorities, Britain's response was that they were trying to get the
Government to silence troublesome exiles in London. ''Arab regimes just wanted
Britain to censor their Islamic opponents who make use of the atmosphere of free
speech in Britain,'' said one British official.

The Foreign Office's words are now being thrown back in its face by both Jews
and Arabs.

''We have been urging the British for years to keep an eye on these people but
they are too relaxed,'' said one Arab diplomat who complained that his embassy's
reports about Muslim fundamentalists active in Britain were not taken seriously.
''But they replied, 'You just want us to silence your opposition' and then gave
me a long lecture about freedom of expression.

''They failed to realise the simple fact that violence is commonplace for these
organisations. It is violence and terrorism in different forms and different
degrees, whether intimidating a woman to force the veil on her face, or burning
down a theatre that performed something they Muslims consider anti-Islamic, or
shooting a writer who authored a book considered blasphemous, or blowing up an
embassy - all are the same.''

Last week, the stream of allegations about ignored warnings came to a head when
the World Jewish Congress claimed that Argentina had told Britain that the
investigation into the murder of 96 people in a car bomb at the Beunos Aires
Jewish community centre on 18 July suggested that London could be a target.

Intelligence services often blame each other when something goes wrong. But
support for the claim of British insouciance in the face of a growing threat
comes from the board of deputies, which represents most British Jewish
organisations. Members went to Scotland Yard and raised concerns about security
in numerous meetings with the Home Office and Prime Minister's Office.

Mike Whine, the board's security officer, said that ''you did not have to be
James Bond'' to work out that attacks were likely. Reports in the Lebanese press
and from the BBC international radio monitoring service at Caversham had spoken
repeatedly of the threat of bombings in Northern Europe.

''Our friends in Europe were telling us that there were armed police guards
outside synagogues,'' he said. ''I don't want to be critical of the Metropolitan
Police, but there does seem to have been some problem with the people they pass
their information on to.''


LOAD-DATE: August 01, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            August 14, 1994, Sunday

BIKE BOMBERS HUNTED AFTER SEASIDE TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE:  Paul Edwards, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1261 words


IRA terrorists who hid bombs on mountain bikes for a double attack on the south
coast holiday towns of Bognor Regis and Brighton were being hunted by police
today.  It was the first time on mainland Britain that bicycles have been used
to conceal bombs, both of which were "big enough to maim and kill", said Sussex
assitant chief constable Richard Childs.  Police are hoping holidaymakers taking
photographs or video films may be able to help their search with footage of the
bikes - with panniers in which the bombs were concealed - being planted sometime
on Saturday.  And, as they began checking security videos from shops in Bognor
town centre, police also appealed for help from firms hiring out bikes who may
be able to provide vital information.  The bomb in Bognor exploded in the town
centre just before 6pm on Saturday, shortly after the shops had shut.  Only
minutes earlier, pedestrianised London Road had been crowded with shoppers and
holidaymakers and police described it as a miracle that no-one was hurt.  A
total of 15 shops were wrecked as a rain of deadly broken glass was sent flying
through the precinct and experts were today still combing the debris for clues.
The second device left on the forecourt of the Palace Pier at Brighton - 15
miles from Bognor - was defused by a controlled explosion after it had been
found following a search.  The twin attacks, which were accompanied by warning
telephone calls which gave no exact locations, came a year to the day after a
series of IRA firebombs went off in the nearby resort of Bournemouth - on August
13 1993. They also came on the day Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams declared that
peace for Ulster was in sight as loyalists marched in Belfast and Londonderry
and a rally in London marked the 25th anniversary of the deployment of British
troops.  Both bombs were hidden in panniers on the back of blue mountain bikes.
The Bognor bike was left locked to a cycle rack outside Woolworth's in London
Road. A Townsend Oregon mountain bike, it had the numbers 20-2 written in white
fluid on the part of the frame leading from the handlebars to the front forks.
On the D-lock, used to secure the cycle, the number 26 was written in the same
type of fluid.  Following the blast at Bognor and a non-specific warning that a
device had been left at Brighton, police closed the Palace Pier and found the
second bike with its explosive device.  This bike was a French made Gitane
Bullet, again secured to railings using a D-lock on which the number 16 was
written in the same type of fluid.  Assistant chief constable Mr Childs declined
to give specific information about the types of devices. But he spoke of the
devastation that could have been caused at Brighton if the bomb had gone off and
the "callousness" of planting such a device.  In Bognor today - where a man
described being hurled off his feet by the blast and another told of seeing a
grandfather shield a young boy - the most common phrase being used was that it
was a miracle no-one had been killed.  A small crater in the pavement, measuring
about a foot square, marked the spot outside Woolworth's store where the bomb
exploded.  The blast also twisted the frame of the cycle rack to which the bike
had been secured.  This afternoon, members of the Anti-Terrorist Squad completed
a fingertip search of the area and debris from the blast, as well as the
crumpled frame of the dark blue bicycle, was taken away for forensic
examination.  The explosion left huge gaping holes in shop windows along the
precinct, where, 24 hours later, shop alarms were still ringing.  Woolworth's
store looked like an open doll's house and alongside it windows in Specsavers
had been shattered.  Across the road, the windows of travel agent Thomas Cook,
advertising "Get Away From It All" holidays, were smashed and a shoe shop was
wide open, its display of fashionable footwear heaped in a pile by the blast.
The blast hit shop fronts over a wide area and shattered windows in upstairs
offices. Tonight and tomorrow glaziers will move into the area so that the shops
can be reopened to the public, probably some time tomorrow.  In Brighton today,
thousands of day trippers and holidaymakers packed the seafront - although the
area around the Palace Pier remained cordoned off.  Many motorists also ignored
large signs posted on main routes into the town which declared: "IRA Bomb -
seafront road closed".  Day tripper Jonathan Hunt, of Richmond, Surrey, who was
with his wife and two children, said: "We had planned to spend the day in
Brighton. When we heard about the bomb we never even considered calling off the
trip.  "If we had decided not to come we would have been playing right into the
IRA's hands. We are having a great time." Lorraine Lewis, owner of the seafront
AlJo's Cafe, said: "The seafront around the Palace Pier has been closed off to
the public all day but I've still had about 200 customers.  "The people who are
here seem to be carrying on pretty much as normal, they don't seem to be too
concerned." Brighton Beach office manager Ian Taylor said: "The beach is even
more packed than usual because a section of the beach near the Palace Pier has
been shut off to tourists.  "Everyone is sun bathing and totally happy,
oblivious to the police searching for bombs around them. No-one seems very
concerned, people are really taking it all in their stride."

reopens) Appealing for assistance from amateur photographers today, Sussex
police spokesman Sgt Mike Alderson said: "We want everyone who took any pictures
or holiday videos near the bomb sites in the past few weeks to bring them in to
us, no matter how silly they may be.  "Someone may have unwittingly taken a
snapshot of the person or people who planted these bombs." He added that the
numbers painted on both bikes could provide vital information.  "Serial numbers
on the bikes and on the locks used to chain them up are similar to those which
would be issued by bicycle hire companies.  "The bikes would not necessarily
have been ridden here - they could have been hired anywhere in the country,
rigged up and then brought to the targets by car, bus or train." Sgt Alderson
also said police were well aware of the significance of the date the bombs were
planted and added: "It is clear from these incidents and others in recent months
that we are in the middle of a mainland bombing campaign by the IRA."

The devices were on the back of the cycles and were "big enough to maim and
kill", Sussex assistant chief constable Richard Childs told the news conference
today.  The the numbers 20-2 were written in white Tippex-type fluid on the part
of the frame which leads from the handlebars to the front forks of the cycle
involved at Bognor.  The number 26 was written in the same type of fluid on the
D-lock used to secure the machine.  The cycle at Brighton was also secured to
railings using a D-lock, which bore the number 16, written in the same
Tippex-type fluid.  He said it could be that the cycles were hired and appealed
for anyone who had any information about them to contact police.  Police were
today examining security videos taken in the town centre at Bognor, and making
house-to-house inquiries in the area.  As a precautionary measure the piers at
Bognor and Brighton remained sealed off while searches continued.  Mr Childs
said that anyone who had been in the area of Brighton's Palace Pier or Bognor's
London Road precinct should contact police - they could have taken photos or
video footage which could provide a vital clue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                August 15, 1994

Rabin warns PLO: Stop terror attacks

BYLINE: Joseph Finklestone

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 547 words


FURIOUS Israeli prime minister Itzhak Rabin warned the PLO today that he would
stop negotiating for further transfer of civilian power on the West Bank if it
did not take strong action to stop extremist attacks on Israelis.  Speaking at
the spot where an Israeli civilian was killed yesterday and six other Israelis
wounded, Mr Rabin accused the PLO of not making a sufficient effort to prevent
Hamas attacks.

Mr Rabin said: "We do not see on the part of the Palestinian authority a serious
effort to deal with those who oppose the agreement."

Shortly before he spoke, a bomb south of the West Bank town of Bethlehem, still
under Israeli occupation, wounded three soldiers. Border police dismantled two
other unexploded charges, a military statement said.

The Israeli army announced it was reinforcing troops in the area. The road, near
the Jewish settlement of Gush Katif, is within the Palestinian self-rule area
but is frequently patrolled by army vehicles.

PLO leader Yasser Arafat's Palestine Authority officials reacted to the warning
by saying they would start a campaign to confiscate illegal weapons - but such
action, though welcome, will not be considered sufficient by Mr Rabin and his
defence officials. They feel Mr Arafat is reluctant to take action against
fellow Arabs, even terrorists, for fear of losing public support. However,
Palestinian security forces rounded up between 10 and 30 Hamas members in the
Gaza Strip today, Palestinian sources said.

One, a prayer leader, criticised the police for arresting him in the middle of
the night in front of his children, in much the same way as the Israelis during
occupation.

Mr Rabin said Israel would continue negotiating with the Palestinians on
expanding self-rule. Talks were due to resume today at the Erez crossing point
between Israel and Gaza.

Right-wing leader Ariel Sharon called for the talks to be cut off. "It is
inconceivable that the government continue the negotiations when the
Palestinians continue to shoot and attack us," he told Israel radio.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 16, 1994, Tuesday

Carlos held after 20-year manhunt; Scotland Yard may question killer who is said
to have been behind series of terrorist attacks in London

BYLINE: JULIAN NUNDY in Paris

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 674 words


SCOTLAND YARD said last night it may seek to interview Ilich Ramirez Sanchez,
the international terrorist better known as ''Carlos'', whose arrest by French
police yesterday, after a secret extradition from Sudan, ended a 20-year hunt by
the world's security forces.

British police would not say whether there are outstanding warrants against him,
but Carlos is presumed to have been behind a number of terrorist attacks in
London, his base in the early 1970s.

Announcing his capture, Charles Pasqua, France's Interior Minister, said Carlos
was responsible for the killing of 83 people, 15 in France. He is ''the
best-known and the most dangerous terrorist on the national and international
plane''.

His most infamous operation on British soil, for which he claimed
responsibility, was in December 1973, when he tried to kill Joseph Edward Sieff,
who was chairman of Marks & Spencer and the vice-president of the Zionist
Federation in Britain. Although Carlos shot him in the face with a pistol at his
home in St John's Wood, Sieff survived. Carlos, now 44, operated from the homes
of London-based girlfriends which were used to hide weapons, cash and false
papers.

He carried out a string of terrorist attacks in the 1970s, including the
hostage-taking of oil ministers at an Organisation of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (Opec) conference in Vienna in December 1975. After a gun battle in
which three people died, Carlos demanded and got a jet with a volunteer crew.
This took the terrorists to Algiers and Tripoli, then back to Algiers before he
freed the last hostages.

The delivery of Carlos into the hands of the DST, France's counter-espionage
service, ended a hunt by a service seeking to avenge the deaths of two of its
officers shot by Carlos in Paris in 1975. Mr Pasqua said the killing began ''a
long pursuit on the French side with the help of several friendly services. This
hunt was never abandoned.''

Mr Pasqua, explaining ''there are some things I can't say and others I don't
know'', gave few details of the arrest of Carlos, saying only that he was
arrested on Sunday by the Sudanese authorities and flown to Villacoublay, the
French government's VIP airport south of Paris. Mr Pasqua declined even to say
to which country the aircraft carrying Carlos belonged or where he was being
held, saying only that he was in DST hands. French radio reports said he had
been taken to La Sante prison in central Paris.

Carlos, born into the family of a Marxist lawyer in Venezuela, was educated at
Patrice Lumumba University in Moscow before being expelled from the Soviet Union
for raucous behaviour. His first name, Ilich, was the patronymic of Vladimir
Lenin.

Mr Pasqua said the DST had discovered that Carlos was in Sudan at the start of
this year. Most recently, he was reported to be living in Damascus with his
wife, Magdalena Kopp - herself a one-time member of the Baader-Meinhof gang -
and their daughter, Rosa.

Ten days ago, France sent Sudan a written request to extradite Carlos on the
basis of an international arrest warrant. Mr Pasqua insisted Sudan had agreed
without any negotiation, even though Khartoum could be expected to be
sympathetic towards a man who fought for radical Arab causes. Yesterday, Sudan
said its capture of Carlos reflected its opposition to terrorism, but denied it
extradited him to improve its international image. Sudanese officials said
Carlos came to Khartoum to plan assaults on foreign targets in Sudan, and that
agents had him under surveillance before France requested his arrest. However,
Sudan's Justice Minister, Abdel-Azziz Shado, urged the US yesterday to consider
taking Sudan off a list of countries that sponsor terrorism.

Carlos was sentenced to life imprisonment by a French court in absentia in June
1992. Now he is in custody, he will face a retrial. Officials in Berlin said
that Germany would seek his extradition, to face trial for a bomb attack in
1983.

(Photograph omitted)

Leading article, page 15

Robert Fisk, page 17


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1994 Independent Print Ltd

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                            August 28, 1994, Sunday

ULSTER TERRORIST ATTACK FLOPS

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 140 words


Terrorists in Northern Ireland fired mortar bombs at a checkpoint near the Irish
border last night - but they missed, and no one was hurt and nothing was
damaged.  The missiles exploded in a field by the main Belfast-Dublin road
outside Newry, Co Down. At the same time, terrorists tried to mortar bomb a
police station in Tennent Street, Belfast.  But Royal ULster Constabulary
officers spotted the device in the back of a Ford Fiesta car parked at the rear
of the station. It was later defused.  Earlier there were three failed mortar
bomb attacks on RUC stations at Belleek, Co Fermanagh, Donemana, Co Tyrone, and
Downpatrick, Co Down, where the missiles exploded prematurely, injuring a police
officer and 14 civilians.  The attacks were launched in the run-up to the
expected announcement next month of an IRA ceasefire.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1994 The Press Association Limited

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 1994, Thursday

TERROR OF GIRL IN BEAR ATTACK;
Zoo worker attacked by bear

SECTION: Page 23

LENGTH: 151 words


A zoo worker scarred for life by a bear should not have been in a cage with it,
a court was told yesterday.

Maureen Harkin, 27, was feeding the bear when it tore open her leg.

She had 25 stitches and treatment for months. It happened nearly eight years
ago, but she says she's still in pain.

It was claimed all staff were told to stay out of two-year-old Zigi's cage.

Carol Dornbrak, wife of Cameron Bear Park boss Herbert Dornbrak, said rules were
made as Zigi was nipping folk. Maureen says she wasn't told.

Dumbarton Sheriff Court heard she looked after monkeys at the Loch Lomondside
park.

She was attacked as she deputised for the regular bear keeper, her sister Kate
Battersby, who was later sacked.

Maureen, of Daligan Farm, Glen Fruin, Dunbartonshire, wants #5000 damages from
park owners Alloa Brewery. They deny liability. Sheriff Tom Scott will give his
findings later.


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               September 29, 1994

11 YEARS OF TERROR BY SEX ATTACKER

BYLINE: Barbara Mcmahon

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 507 words


A SEX attacker who preys on young boys may have started his reign of terror more
than 11 years ago, police said today.

The man is being hunted after a spate of assaults in the past two years on boys
walking to and from school across Riddlesdown Common near Croydon.  But police
now believe he struck first in 1983. A detective leading the hunt said a mother
had come forward to say her son, now 22, had been molested on the common when he
was 11.

Detective Inspector Adrian Pardoe-Blackledge said: 'This is an important line of
inquiry but because of the time lapse it may be difficult to conclusively prove
a link.

'We would appeal for young men who have been assaulted in previous years to come
forward.'

Police are putting together a psychological profile of the sex attacker.  Such
profiles were strongly criticised after the trial of loner Colin Stagg for the
murder of Rachel Nickell collapsed at the Old Bailey, but Mr Pardoe-Blackledge
said a profile might help to pinpoint the lifestyle and history of the
Riddlesdown Common attacker. He added: 'This is just one line we are pursuing. I
don't see it as some sort of Holy Grail.

"We are more interested in members of the public who may know something or may
have seen something coming forward, anonymously if they wish.'

He revealed that a witness to the last attack was helping police with a more
accurate description of the attacker than those given previously.

In the most recent attack, an 11-year-old boy on his way to school was dragged
into bushes and indecently assaulted. In the past 18 months two other boys aged
11 and 14 were similarly assaulted. A 14-year-old was attacked but escaped.

The attacker is a scruffy and unshaven white man.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 11, 1994, Tuesday

TODDLER IN DOG ATTACK TERROR;
He was soaked in blood, says angry mum;
Young Andrew Cruickshanks is attacked by a dog as his mother looks in horror.

BYLINE: Margaret Mallon

SECTION: Page 15

LENGTH: 197 words


A young mum told last night how her toddler son was savaged by a dog.

Margaret Cruickshanks said two-year-old Andrew's clothes were soaked in blood
after the attack.

The terrified tot had to be taken to hospital.

Margaret, 25, had taken the family dog Sam for a walk.

With her were Andrew, his three-year-old sister Julie, and a 15-month-old baby
she was looking after.

The attack happened when they met a stranger who was walking two dogs.

One of them, a mongrel, was off the leash.

And when the stranger bent down to give Sam a piece of chocolate, Margaret says
"all hell broke loose".

She went on: "His dog just started biting Andrew's head. I was trying to protect
the 15-month-old baby in the buggy.

"And if it hadn't been for the stranger, who pulled the dog off my wee boy, I
don't know what would have happened." She added: "What really amazes me is the
guy with the dogs just disappeared.

"He didn't even wait to see how Andrew was.

"The blood was streaming from his head, and his clothes were soaked with it."
After the attack in North Carbrain, Cumbernauld, near Glasgow, Andrew was taken
to Monklands Hospital and given five stitches.


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                October 20, 1994

Cry of vengeance as Israel mourns;
(1) Rabin bids to save the peace after 22 die in bus blast (2) HARDLINERS DEMAND
SWIFT RETALIATION FOR ATTACK BY SUICIDE TERRORIST THAT BROUGHT HORROR TO THE
HEART OF TEL AVIV

BYLINE: Steve Doughty

SECTION: Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 1907 words


ISRAELI Premier Yitzhak Rabin was fighting to save the Middle East peace process
last night.

He faced furious demands for drastic action after the horrific bus bomb which
rocked Tel Aviv and killed 22 people.

Hardliners blamed the outrage - the second in a week by Hamas extremists - on
the peace deal which handed control of the Gaza Strip to Yasser Arafat's PLO.

President Ezer Weizman, who refused to accept a sympathy call from Mr Arafat,
vowed: 'It will end. It has to end. We will tear them to bits.' He said Israel
would have to take 'extraordinary action'.

But Mr Rabin's officials indicated that the traditional policy of massive
retaliation no longer applied. They said Israeli action would be limited to
seeking out the men behind the violence.

Spokesman Uri Dromi promised: 'We will be very tough on the Hamas, but we must
both fight the Islamic fanatics and at the same time pursue the peace process.
The only alternative is bloodshed.'

Mr Rabin, who cut short a visit to London immediately he heard of the bomb
attack, knows that the use of Israeli force in Gaza would destroy Arafat's
authority and probably deal a terminal blow to the fragile agreement which has
won both him and the PLO chief a Nobel prize.

But Mr Rabin faces a wave of public revulsion at the sheer horror of the attack.

The suicide bomber picked the deadliest moment to trigger his 40lb bomb - the
bus had just picked up commuters from Tel Aviv's central station.  Bodies were
blown across Dizengoff Street - the equivalent of Piccadilly - and debris was
hurled through the windows of third and fourth floor offices.  'People went
flying into the air, arms and legs, it was a very terrible thing,' said Moshe
Reiner, who was walking to work. Passers-by joined police and paramedics to help
48 people hurt in the explosion.

But police, fearing booby traps, waited for more than half an hour before
removing the dead from the wreckage of the red and white bus.

As the grim work began, one girl onlooker screamed: 'How much more can we take?'
A teenager in a white halter top stood next to the bus, crying and screaming for
a murdered boyfriend.

Another witness said: 'I heard a boom and there was a lot of screaming, a lot of
people running and crying. I saw a lot of bodies.'

The theory that a suicide bomber was involved appeared to be backed by evidence
from a woman who got off the bus at its last stop.

She told police she had noticed a 'dark man in his 30s' with a large bag seated
in the fifth row - the site of the blast.

It was the worst death toll of Israelis from an Arab terror attack for 16 years.

Last week Hamas's military wing, the Izzedine al-Qassam Brigades, kidnapped a
young soldier and killed him amid a failed Israeli army rescue raid.

One television announcer wept as she gave the news of yesterday's attack.

Tension between Jews and Arabs rose throughout the country. In Jerusalem, an
Israeli soldier was stabbed and wounded by a Palestinian who shouted 'God is
great', police said.

Last night hundreds of right-wing protesters gathered outside the Defence
Ministry as Mr Rabin arrived for emergency talks with generals to decide on
Israel's reaction.

Demonstrators in the torch-lit vigil shouted: 'Death to Rabin'. After the
meeting, Mr Rabin vowed to take action against Hamas. He said: 'I intend to
bring to the cabinet tomorrow proposals which will enable the proper actions in
the face of cruel and horrible Hamas terrorism.'

He did not specify what action he would take, but in 1992 he rounded up 415
suspected Hamas members and deported them to Lebanon after Hamas attacks.

In the immediate aftermath of the bus blast, Israeli forces had sealed off the
million inhabitants of Gaza from Israel proper. But the Likud opposition party
demanded a permanent closure and an end to the 'land for peace' process.

Its leader Benjamin Netanyahu said Mr Rabin would be held personally responsible
for a 'wave of disasters that will follow' if he failed to act against the
Palestinians.

Likud stalwart Ariel Sharon, a hardline hawk, said peace had only opened
Israel's doors to terror. He added: 'The government decided to leave Gaza and
brought Gaza to Tel Aviv.'

Israeli Army commander General Ehud Barak also said there might have to be a
long-term closure, barring the thousands of Palestinians who have jobs in
Israel.

Border closure could also spell disaster for Mr Arafat - the Gaza economy
depends on the inflow of wages earned in Israel itself.

He issued a statement 'in the name of Palestinians and in my name' condemning
the bombing and extending his condolences to the victims.

Mr Arafat added: 'Pushing forward with the peace process and implementing the
rest of the agreement is the only way to respond to the enemies of peace who are
getting their support, their training and financing from well-known outside
parties' - a reference to Iran, whose fundamentalist regime is blamed for
backing terrorism.

The problem for the PLO leader is how tough he can be against Hamas - he is
already seen by many Palestinians as 'doing Israel's dirty work'. Yet unless he
can show that the fledgling Palestinian security forces are capable of breaking
Hamas's strength in Gaza, the peace process could be swamped by hostile public
opinion in Israel.

The bombing may have been a show of Hamas retaliation for the death of its own
men in the raid that failed to save its soldier hostage last weekend.  It may
also have been a reaction to Israel's new peace deal with Jordan, which
President Bill Clinton is due to seal in a ceremony with Rabin and King Hussein
at a new border crossing next week.

The peace process has been marred by several terrorist outrages. A blast at a
Jewish centre in Buenos Aires killed 100 people in July, and was followed by two
bombs in London - one outside the Israeli Embassy in Kensington - which
astonishingly claimed no lives.

Israeli militants have also taken a toll. In February a Jewish settler under
pressure to quit the West Bank shot and killed 30 Arab worshippers at a mosque
in Hebron.

John Major demonstrated his backing for Middle East peace hopes by announcing
that he intends to visit Israel early next spring.

The Premier said: 'This despicable act, for which Hamas has reportedly claimed
responsibility, should only reinforce our collective determination to see the
peace process succeed.'

Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind will travel to Israel today in another display
of British commitment.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1) Agony: A wounded passenger is lifted gently from the shattered bus
as one of her rescuers calls for a stretcher (2) Dazed: Passers-by, one of them
wounded by debris from the blast, sit stunned beside the road (3) Race to help:
A man sprints towards the bus after the explosion (4) Suicide target: The
wrecked bus in the centre of Tel Aviv

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 23, 1994, Sunday

Israel fears massive terror attack during American talks

BYLINE: By Andy Goldberg, Jerusalem, and Marie Colvin

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 896 words


ISRAELI security chiefs fear that Islamic fanatics will stage a massive attack
this week during President Clinton's visit to the Middle East. They say
intelligence officials have information that the Hamas movement is determined to
disrupt the region's peace moves in spectacular fashion.

A huge security operation is being prepared; but the scenes of carnage in the
heart of Tel Aviv last Wednesday, when a Hamas suicide bomber blew up a bus
killing himself and 21 others, illustrate Israel's dilemma in the face of the
new breed of fanatics.

''I am willing for a total war against Hamas, but I also have to think: what
next?'' said Yitzhak Rabin, the prime minister, after Wednesday's attack.

Last night, about 20,000 right-wing protesters rallied in Tel Aviv, accusing the
government of doing too little to avert such outrages. They vilified Rabin as a
traitor who was selling off his country to make peace with the Arabs.

Hamas appears to have ended a de facto truce that followed the return to Gaza of
Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian Liberation Organisation (PLO) leader, and is
mounting a campaign of terror at the heart of Israeli society.

Within the past two weeks, members of the Izzedine al-Qassam Brigades, the
military wing of Hamas, have shot up a Jerusalem shopping arcade, killing two,
and kidnapped and killed a 19-year-old Israeli soldier. Then came the bus
bombing.

The violence ended a period of relative inaction from Hamas, whose name is an
acronym for the Islamic Resistance Movement, and also means ''zeal'' in Arabic.
Two months ago in Gaza, PLO security officials said Hamas was not causing them
any problems nor did they expect any. Now it seems clear Hamas was merely biding
its time.

Officially, the group has denounced Arafat's peace treaty with Israel as treason
because he settled for less than all of Palestine. Its stated aim is to
eliminate the Jewish state and create in its place an Islamic nation based on
Koranic law.

Its real aim, according to insiders, is less grandiose. Palestinians close to
Hamas leaders said from the moment Arafat and Rabin shook hands in Washington,
most Islamists realised the accord was irreversible.

The true issue for Hamas is not to eliminate the Israeli state, but to gain
recognition by Arafat and Israel as a political force. Like most such movements,
no matter what is said about religious principles, the struggle is about power.

Hamas targets have been Israeli, but its political sights are set on Arafat.  He
is vulnerable, because after 40 years of fighting he decided to settle for what
he could get by negotiation and ended up with less than he was promised.  His
writ runs only in what is a virtual bantustan of Gaza and Jericho, while Israel
stalls on turning over the rest of the West Bank.

This has given Hamas its opening. The initial euphoria Palestinians felt at
Arafat's return has faded into the realisation that no matter how much their
leader is struggling to deliver real economic and political change, little has
altered in their daily lives.

PLO officials complain that each time there is a Hamas attack, Rabin responds in
a way that further weakens Arafat. Last week, in response to the Tel Aviv
bombing, he closed off the West Bank and Gaza, stranding the thousands of
Palestinians who cross every day for work.

It puts Arafat in an impossible dilemma. If he speaks out against the Israeli
measures and resists Israeli pressure to crack down on Hamas, he risks the
possibility that Israel will respond by dragging its feet further in talks. If
he says nothing, Hamas can charge that he is Rabin's puppet.

Israel has miscalculated in its treatment of Hamas before. The group arose in
the beginning of the intifada, the Palestinian uprising, in 1987. Israel
nurtured it, believing it would be a counter to the PLO. That strategy backfired
when Hamas grew out of control.

Then, in December 1992, Israel deported 415 Islamic hardliners to Lebanon,
allowing them back a year later after an international outcry. The deportation
was a boon to Hamas. Its popularity soared and the deportees said they had been
trained in bomb-making and sabotage by Islamic fundamentalists.

Although Israeli intelligence estimates active Hamas militants number only a few
hundred, they believe it has the support of 20-40% of the population. It has
learned from the example of fundamentalists in Iran and Beirut, winning hearts
and minds by setting up a parallel system of schools, medical clinics and
charity organisations in Gaza.

Intelligence on Hamas is minimal. The military members operate in tiny cells
that have no communication with each other. Members are often related by blood;
penetrating the cells is almost impossible. Their asceticism means that
temptations used to entrap secular PLO members women, drugs and money are
ineffective.

Where PLO recruits were mostly uneducated youths from refugee camps, Hamas
members are in the mould of Salah Abdel Rahim Suwey, 27, the Tel Aviv suicide
bomber. He was well-educated, from a prosperous family and studying accounting.

Arafat believes the only way to curb the attraction of the Islamic extremists is
for Israel to speed up its withdrawal from the West Bank, agree to immediate
elections and introduce economic measures that would allow Palestinians to
believe in a better future.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1994 Times Newspapers Limited

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 27, 1994, Thursday

SPRAY TERROR OF LITTLE JOHN;
John Bruce attacked by teenager and foam sprayed into his eyes

SECTION: Page 21

LENGTH: 111 words


A schoolboy was almost blinded in a bizarre attack. Eight-year-old John

Bruce's teenage attacker threw him to the ground and sprayed foam in his face.

Police investigating the attack say the foam, used for filling gaps around
windows, could have blinded John.

Fortunately, during the attack near his home at Burns Terrace, Cowie, near
Stirling, John kept his eyes shut.

After his attacker ran off, John, a pupil at Cowie Primary School, made his way
home. His shocked mother took him to Stirling Royal Infirmary where casualty
staff removed the foam from his hair and eyebrow. Last night mum Phyllis said:
"This was a horrible thing to do to a wee boy."


LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            October 30, 1994, Sunday

GUN RAIDERS TERRIFY PUBS;
DUBLIN BARMEN TERRORISED BY WAVE OF ATTACKS FORM GUNMEN

BYLINE: Fiona May

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 600 words


HUNDREDS of frightened Dublin barmen are threatening to quit after a wave of
ruthless attacks by gunmen.  Bar staff have been assaulted and pistol-whipped by
raiders who have snatched thousands of pounds from Dublin pubs in the past three
months. And workers fear they will be at even greater risk as business booms in
the run up to Christmas.

Brewery bosses have been warned that staff at dozens of city bars could walk out
unless they are given extra protection. Union officials are seeking a meeting
with pub owners to discuss ways of tackling the unprecedented crime wave.

Popular Dublin pubs held-up this year include the Punchbowl in Monkstown, the
Gaiety Theatre, Dwyers in Kilmacud and Sarah Currans in Rathfarnham.

Raiders have escaped with hauls ranging from £ 2,500 to £ 30,000.

Pub bosses fear a drop in takings if regular customers stay away because of the
increasing violence.

The manager of one city centre bar said staff were very worried.

He said the pub trade was particularly vulnerable because it was a hard cash
business. "Any busy pub would have thousands of pounds on the premises on
Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights," he added.

"We're sitting ducks for gangsters. And the attacks are getting more vicious.

"Bar staff are really scared. They could leave in droves if this gangsterism is
not stopped."

Another publican said: "Customers are becoming very edgy. Most of the raids are
after closing time but it wouldn't take much more to deter people from coming
out at nights."

Police said surveillance on pubs had been stepped up because of the alarming
number of attacks.

He said: "We are tightening up our vigilance. We cannot protect every pub but we
can certainly make life much more difficult for the gangs."

The licensed trade is also being hit by soaring insurance rates. Some insurers
are demanding pub premiums of between £ 40,000 and £ 50,000 a year.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1994 MGN Ltd.

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 31, 1994

US EMBASSY IN CAIRO WARNS STAFF OF TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 192 words


Reuter: THE US embassy in Cairo warned employees yesterday that terrorists
planned to attack the embassy.

It said it had received information from an unsubstantiated source of a
terrorist attack.

"Sources indicated the attack could come in the form of a car bomb or by
planting a bomb in a diplomatic vehicle. We have no other specific threat
information at this time," it said.

The warning was circulated among embassy employees and sent out to large US
contractors and firms.

Muslim militants fighting to overthrow the government and set up a strict
Islamic state have killed seven tourists in 22 attacks since October 1992.

Militants killed a British tourist and wounded three more in an attack in the
southern province of Qena last Sunday.

The militant group Gama'a al-Islamiya has warned tourists to stay away from
Egypt, saying it will carry out more attacks, but so far it has not targeted
foreign embassies in its war with the state.

The embassy repeated its standing warning to US citizens not to travel by road
or rail in the southern provinces of Assiut and Minya, and in Qena province
north of Luxor.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            November 7, 1994, Monday

GANG TERROR IN THE STREET;
Police were attacked as they tried to stop the fighting in the streets of Hawick

SECTION: Page 13

LENGTH: 137 words


Rival gangs yesterday brought terror to a quiet town.

Dozens of young thugs fought in the street.

And police were attacked as they tried to stop the fighting.

There were 12 arrests and more could follow as cops probe the incident.

At the height of the disturbances, up to 200 people were in the centre of
Hawick, Roxburghshire.

A witness said: "All over the street there were scuffles breaking out between
groups and it was no holds barred stuff.

"This sort of thing has been threatening for weeks." It's believed trouble
flared following an argument in a local pub.

After the arrests, relatives and friends swarmed to the police station to
protest.

A spokesman said the 12 arrested, 11 male and one female, were charged with
breach of the peace. A number were also charged with police assault.


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           November 20, 1994, Sunday

SERBS STEP UP TERROR;
Bosnia is attacked for the second time in two days

SECTION: Page 2

LENGTH: 91 words


Rebel Serb war planes yesterday defied the UN by bombing Bosnia for the second
time in two days.

One jet involved in the attack on the Muslim Bihac enclave crashed into an
apartment block, killing the pilot.

The attack on Bosnia from a Serb-occupied part of Croatia came despite warnings
of possible action by Nato.

A UN spokesman said: "Bombs hit at least one group of flats." The United Nations
is attempting to get Dutch peacekeepers into the region to support Nato aircraft
from the ground - but Serbs have refused to let them in.


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                               November 22, 1994

'Date rape' terror;
Single mother 'attacked after she answered a lonely hearts advert'

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 747 words


A SOBBING woman told yesterday of her terror as she was raped on a lonely hearts
date.

The single mother said that as she was pinned to her living room floor she kept
her eyes on the door of her children's bedroom.

'I didn't know whether he would harm my son,' the 25-year-old blonde told St
Albans Crown Court in Hertfordshire.

She said she made contact with Timothy Patton after seeing his advert in the
lonely hearts column of Loot, the London-based free newspaper.

It read: 'Attractive, genuine white guy, 5ft 10in, green eyes, dark hair, young
33, straight talker, honest, friendly and solvent seeks attractive lady for
sincere long-term relationship.' She said she was drawn to it by the word
'honest'.

Bruce Stuart, prosecuting, said women who replied were told to ring a telephone
number where they would be able to hear a recording of the man's voice and leave
a contact number, which she did.

Patton rang the following day and arranged to visit her flat in Abbots Langley,
Hertfordshire. But the young mother began to doubt the wisdom of what she had
done, said Mr Stuart. 'She tried to persuade a girlfriend to be at the flat, but
she didn't want to play gooseberry.'

Patton arrived with a bottle of wine and was greeted by the woman, wearing a
T-shirt and blue jeans tucked into ankle boots. One child was asleep, but her
three-year-old son remained up for half an hour before being put to bed.  In the
lounge, said Mr Stuart, Patton invited the woman to sit next to him on a sofa
and began kissing her neck. She shrugged him off, but he tugged her T-shirt out
and placed his hand underneath.

'She thought if she screamed or fought it would bring at least one child into
the room. She was more concerned about her son seeing than about what was
happening to her.'

He said Patton, who had told her his name was Williams, bundled her onto the
floor, tugged her jeans down and had sex with her. Then he dressed and left.
Police traced the defendant to his parents' home in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey.
When his mother asked him if it was true, he told her: 'I went on a blind date.
We made love, but she wasn't the sort of girl I was looking for.' Mr Stuart said
Patton, of Netley Drive, Walton, denies rape. He told detectives that the woman
had agreed to have sex.

Miss X told the court she had met two other men through the lonely hearts
column. She went out with one for three months and had sex, but not on the first
date.

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Accused: Timothy Patton

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 29, 1994, Tuesday

JURY TOLD OF BOMB PLOT;
IRA terrorist plan bomb attack in Alloa flat

SECTION: Page 2

LENGTH: 212 words


A suspected IRA terrorist hatched a bomb plot in an Alloa flat, a court was told
yesterday.

But the Old Bailey jury heard how he was caught red-handed with a 2.5-kilo bomb
as he tried to board a bus for central London.

Robert Fryers, 44, was arrested by armed cops after a huge surveillance
operation stretching from London to Scot-land, the jury was told.

And as he was arrested he admitted he had a bomb, said prosecutor Nigel Sweeney.

The jury heard Fryers, from Ballymurphy, West Belfast, had plotted a bombing
campaign with Scotsman Hugh Jack, 37.

Mr Sweeney said the plot was formed early last year when Fryers began staying at
Jack's council flat at Lochbrae, Sauchie, in Alloa.

"The prosecution allege that these two defendants conspired to cause explosions.

"The first explosion was to take place in central London." But the jury was told
Fryers was stopped as he made his way to plant the bomb last July.

The court heard Fryers and Jack visited premises at Stirling industrial estate
and at the Cotton Street business centre in Glasgow.

During a search, police found evidence of bomb-making gear.

Fryers and Jack deny one charge of conspiracy to cause explosions between
January 1, 1993 and July 15, 1993.

The trial continues.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           December 3, 1994, Saturday

SCOTS STUDENTS IN TERROR GANG ATTACK;
Scots law students attacked by a knife gang on a trip to France.

SECTION: Page 17

LENGTH: 142 words


Scots law students have been savagely attacked by a knife gang on a trip to
France.

One was stabbed in the chest while others were beaten in what they say was an
unprovoked assault.

The 35 students from Strathclyde University were spending three days in
Strasbourg at the Euro Parliament.

The attack happened two weeks ago but was only revealed yesterday.

Stabbing victim Robbie King had to stay behind in hospital when the rest went
home. He was released later but still hasn't returned to university.

Law professor Alan Paterson said: "It was totally unprovoked. It must have been
terrifying." Four others were injured as they fought off six thugs armed with
knives and car jacks as they walked back to their hotel from a bar.

Prof Paterson added: "Nobody can understand why it happened. Our group were not
being rowdy at all."


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                            December 4, 1994, Sunday

TERROR CHASE ENDS IN HAMMER ATTACK;
Terrified diners watched in horror as 14 Asians chased a white teenager through
the Manzil Restaurant in Pollokshaws Road, Glasgow.

SECTION: Page 7

LENGTH: 131 words


A gang chased a youth through a crowded restaurant and battered him with a
hammer.

Terrified diners watched in horror as 14 Asians chased the white teenager
through the Manzil Restaurant in Pollokshaws Road, Glasgow.

The gang members, aged between 14 and 20, cornered the youth and set about him
with a hammer and sticks.

One diner said later: "There was blood everywhere. After the attack the gang
warned people not to speak to the police." The seriously injured victim was
rushed to hospital where his condition yesterday was described as "serious".
Police have appealed for any information on the gang.

It is believed the teenager stepped in to help two girls who were being annoyed
by the gang on Friday night and fled inside the restaurant when they turned on
him.


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1994 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 20, 1994

Animal rights man jailed for 14 years for terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 366 words


A MEMBER of the Animal Liberation Front was jailed for 14 years yesterday for
attacks on the meat and poultry trade and inciting others to follow him.

Keith Mann, 28, was a "dedicated, ruthless, full-time activist" whose tactics
"bore the hallmarks of terrorism", said Justice Stephen Mitchell at the Old
Bailey. The judge added Mann had betrayed the cause of animal rights, which was
close to the heart of millions.

He said: "Unlike you and those who think like you, most who want to alleviate
the suffering of animals work towards it within the law. Many would say you have
betrayed the cause you seek to further. These are grave offences."

He told Mann: "You are a determined and therefore dangerous fanatic."

Mann had admitted possessing explosive substances, attempted arson, criminal
damage, incitement, and escaping custody.

Mann was caught while on the run when he and his girlfriend were staying under
assumed names at an animal sanctuary in East Sussex.

Mann ran off but was tackled and caught by a police dog and his handler. He had
previously been arrested after long and involved police investigations --
codenamed Operation Lance -- into the activities of the ALF, said Mr Anthony Gee
QC, prosecuting.

Operation Lance was masterminded by Manchester police after a series of attacks
on shops.

Mr Gee said the ALF's objective "was to cause as much economic damage as
possible to companies and individuals perceived to be abusers of animals so they
would no longer be able to operate their businesses".

An abattoir near Oldham was the object of one attack in June 1990. Three lorries
were damaged by paint and paint stripper. Windscreens were smashed, tyres
punctured, and fuel tanks contaminated. The cost to the company was £6000, said
Mr Gee.

A letter sent to a local newspaper the following day was in Mann's handwriting
and claimed responsibility on behalf of the ALF.

Mann was under surveillance in October 1991 when he and a girl were spotted at a
battery hen egg production farm and packing station near Canterbury in Kent.

They ran off after planting eight incendiary devices which failed to go off, the
court was told.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                               December 28, 1994

SEX ATTACK TERROR OF BOY, SIX

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 254 words


A boy of six was taken on a terrifying 50-mile drive by a sex attacker.  The
youngster was playing outside his home in Feltham, West London, when he was
lured into a refuse disposal shed by a white man aged around 30 and assaulted.

The man then bundled the terrified boy into his car and threatened him with a
second attack during a 50-mile drive.

When the child resisted he was dumped on an isolated road near Whitchurch,
Buckinghamshire.

A motorist called the police after spotting him walking along the road.  Last
night the boy was recovering from the ordeal with his family as the attacker was
being hunted.

He was wearing a blue jacket, black jeans and a flat cap.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            January 27, 1995, Friday

TERROR OF WAR;
Russian forces attack Grozny

SECTION: Page 27

LENGTH: 55 words


Russian forces again pounded rebel strongholds in Grozny yesterday.

And civilians, deprived of gas, electricity and heating, fled the shattered
Chechen capital in their thousands.

But the Russian government said its forces were meeting stubborn resistance and
they were stepping up efforts to defeat the rebel fighters.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 28, 1995, Saturday

IRA bomber jailed for shop atrocityDavid McKittrick reports on the sentencing of
a terrorist whose attack led to 1 0 deaths and plunged Northern Ireland into
despair

BYLINE: DAVID MCKITTRICK

SECTION: HOME; Page  4

LENGTH: 427 words


The 21-year-old IRA man who survived the Shankill Road bombing was yesterday
given nine life sentences for causing the deaths of two children, four women and
three men in the explosion.

The judge told him he was guilty of one of the most appalling atrocities
perpetrated in a quarter-of-a-century of terrorist violence. Sean Kelly, of
Brompton Park, Ardoyne, did not contest any of the evidence in the case.

As he was led away after sentencing, he said something in Irish and a relative
of one of the victims called out from the public gallery: "I hope you die in
jail, you bastard."

The tenth person to die in the attack was another IRA member, Thomas Begley, who
was close to the bomb when it exploded. The court heard his badly mutilated
remains were removed from the premises in two body bags.

The IRA intention was to blow up loyalist offices above a Shankill Road fish
shop. Begley and Kelly, dressed in white coats, carried the bomb into the shop.
But the device went off prematurely, killing Begley and the nine other people
who were in or outside the shop during a busy Saturday lunchtime period.

Kelly refused to recognise the court and remained seated yesterday as Lord
Justice McDermott read out his judgment at Belfast Crown Court. The Crown case
was that the bombers meant to kill anyone in the building or its vicinity, since
a timing device on the bomb gave a maximum of 11 seconds to clear the premises.

Kelly was also given a 25-year sentence for causing the explosion. The judge
said that the cold facts of the case made clear the awfulness of what he had
done, causing lasting anguish and suffering to the relatives of those who died.

Later some of the relatives complained that the judge should have stipulated
that Kelly should stay in prison for at least 30 years, or for the rest of his
natural life.

April Brown, the sister of one man who died with his girlfriend and their
daughter, said: "It's just a disgrace. He should be serving his whole lifetime
in prison.

"In fact I'd love to see hanging coming back because I would love to be there in
the front row to see him being hung by the neck. I would be there and I would be
cheering it on because I think he's one bad wee pig. He showed no remorse at all
today."

It was open to the judge to recommend a minimum period of up to 35 years before
Kelly should be considered for release, but he chose not to do so. That means
Kelly received the same sentence as the paratrooper Private Lee Clegg, jailed
for the murder of teenage joyrider.


LOAD-DATE: February 01, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             March 3, 1995, Friday

KNIFE-ATTACK HOOKER TELLS OF HER TERROR;
I did Bonnie Banks Bobbitt ...  and I'd do same again;
A Glasgow prostitute admits cutting a man's penis at Loch Lomond

BYLINE: Charles Beaton

SECTION: Page 13

LENGTH: 347 words


A hooker who almost cut off a punter's manhood has spoken out for the first
time.

The Glasgow prostitute - who left the guy's penis hanging by a thread - told the
Record last night: "I would do it again and again. I was in fear of my life."
Ellen's attack bore all the hallmarks of the John Wayne Bobbitt case in America.

She claims she was picked up by the 28-year-old quantity surveyor to go to his
flat for pounds 40 sex.

Drug addict Ellen, 27, a street prostitute for more than 10 years, revealed how:
She FLED in terror from the dark, lonely spot he drove her to.

He CHASED her "like a hunter after an animal".

She SLASHED his manhood with a craft knife blade.

Ellen said the punter approached her in Blythswood Square and said he was taking
her to his Mount Florida flat - but instead he drove out of the city.

"After a while I realised we were not in Glasgow any more," she said.  "I was
becoming very scared as I didn't know where I was going.

"Eventually we came to a back road and he pulled up. I had no idea where I was
but I was determined to get out the car and get away.

"It was total darkness and I just ran and ran. I just wanted to get away from
this awful scene." But Ellen's freedom was short-lived. She told the Record: "He
caught up with me and pinned me down to the ground. While he tried to grope me,
I managed to pull a blade from my bra.

"I slashed him and blood went everywhere," Ellen said.  "He screamed and got off
me and ran away. I was left with blood all over me." Ellen told how she got to a
main road and flagged down a car. She was taken to a phone and called the
police.

Ellen said: "Girls in Glasgow have been warned by detectives to be cautious
about going out of town with punters following the murders of prostitutes.

"I would do the same again to protect myself," she added.

The punter, a bachelor from Mount Florida, was still recovering in Glasgow's
Western Infirmary yesterday after surgeons managed to stitch his manhood back
together.

Police are preparing a report for the procurator fiscal.


LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 7, 1995, Tuesday

SWISS ARRESTS 'LED TO ARAB TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK IN LONDON'

BYLINE:  Pat Clarke, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 373 words


Arab extremists launched a bombing campaign in central London as a reprisal for
the arrest of two fellow terrorists in Switzerland, an Old Bailey court heard
today.  A 26lb bomb was planted outside the Syrian Embassy in Belgravia and a
12lb device was left inside a Soho peep show, David Calvert-Smith, prosecuting,
told the court.  The Dazzling New Live Peep Show was only yards away from the
Swiss Centre in Leicester Square.  "Almost certainly the bomb's target was not
the peep show, but the Swiss Centre," prosecution alleged.  Both bombs -
containing Russian made TNT - could have endangered life or caused serious
damage to nearby property. But only the detonators went off and "fortunately
failed to set off the main explosive", said Mr Calvert-Smith.  The devices were
planted in June 1985 - two months after two men were caught "red handed" taking
part in a bombing campaign against Syrian and Libyan targets in Geneva, the
court heard.  "We say at least one of the bombs in our case was placed directly
as a result of those events in Geneva," said Mr Calvert-Smith.  The London
campaign was launched by "one group or another of Arab terrorists" and included
Lebanese national Mohamed Kassem Baalbaki, he alleged.  Baalbaki, 37, denies two
charges of acting with the intent to cause explosions.  After the Geneva
arrests, a letter was sent to the Swiss Embassy in London demanding the release
of the pair.  Prosecution allege the same fingerprints were found on both the
letter and the London bombs - but it was not known who they belonged to until
the arrest of a man on firearms charges in Austria nearly seven years later. The
man was Baalbaki who was using a Greek name and passport, allege prosecution.
His fingerprints were sent to London and found to match the prints in the London
bombs case.  He was later interviewed in Austria by British police. He denied he
had ever been to London or the UK and had been in either Cyprus or the Labanon
in June.  But prosecution said that a diary in his possession contained
handwriting similar to that on the letter.  Baalbaki was brought back to London
where he declared: "I am innocent. I do not know anything about this."

The trial was adjourned until tomorrow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 The Press Association Limited

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 8, 1995

SWISS ARRESTS 'LED TERRORISTS TO LAUNCH LONDON BOMB ATTACK'

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 720 words


ARAB extremists launched a bombing campaign in central London in reprisal for
the arrest of two fellow terrorists in Switzerland, an Old Bailey court was told
yesterday.

A 26lb bomb was planted outside the Syrian Embassy in Belgravia and a 12lb
device was left inside the Dazzling New Live Peep Show in Soho, near the Swiss
Centre in Leicester Square, said David Calvert -Smith, prosecuting.

"Almost certainly" the bomb's target was not the peep show, but the Swiss
Centre, he said.

Both bombs, containing Russian-made TNT, could have endangered life or caused
serious damage to property, but only the detonators went off and "fortunately
failed to set off the main explosive", said Mr Calvert-Smith.

The devices were planted in June 1985, two months after two men were "caught
red-handed" taking part in a bombing campaign against Syrian and Libyan targets
in Geneva.  "We say at least one of the bombs in our case was placed directly as
a result of those events in Geneva," he said.

The London campaign was launched by "one group or another of Arab terrorists"
and included a Lebanese national, Mohamed Kassem Baalbaki, he alleged.

Baalbaki, aged 37, denies two charges of acting with the intent to cause
explosions.

After the Geneva arrests, a letter was sent to the Swiss Embassy in London
demanding the release of the pair. The prosecution alleges that the same
fingerprints were found on the letter and the London bombs, but it was not known
who they belonged to until the arrest of a man on firearms charges in Austria
nearly seven years later.

The man was Baalbaki, who was using a Greek name and passport, according to the
prosecution. His fingerprints were sent to London and found to match the bomb
prints.

He was later interviewed in Austria by British police. He denied he had ever
been to London or the UK, and had been in either Cyprus or Lebanon in June.

The prosecution said that a diary in his possession contained handwriting
similar to that on the letter.

Baalbaki was brought to London, where he declared: "I am innocent. I do not know
anything about this."

The trial continues today.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           March 15, 1995, Wednesday

TRAIN ATTACK TERROR;
Vandals smash a stone through a train drivers window on Ayr line

BYLINE: Michael Tumelty

SECTION: Page 17

LENGTH: 210 words


A train trip on a terror track turned to fear after vandals smashed a stone
through the driver's window.

Yesterday transport police warned: "The consequences could have been horrific."
The missile was flung with such force it shattered the cab's reinforced glass,
injuring the 27-year-old driver and his assistant.

The train, carrying coal, was attacked on the same Ayr-Mauchline line where two
vandals dumped a JCB last year.

A coal train ploughed into the JCB, causing pounds 60,000 of damage and injuring
the driver and his mate. The vandals were jailed for two years last november.

The driver in the latest incident suffered multiple cuts and his assistant was
cut on the hands and had severe bruising.

Both were treated at Ayr Hospital and later released shaken from their ordeal.

The freight train was travelling from Killoch Colliery to Ayr when it was
attacked on Monday evening.

The vandals hurled the stone as it approached an overbridge at Annbank, near
Mossblown.

Yesterday, transport police appealed for witnesses.A spokesman said: "This was a
completely mindless act." He added: "The railmen were lucky not to be blinded or
lose control of the train.

"If that had happened, the consequences don't bear thinking about."


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 20, 1995

HORROR BY POISON GAS;
3,200 injured,six killed in rush-hour terror attack on Tokyo tube

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 254 words


THE RUSH-HOUR. The underground trains are jam-packed. And through the carriages
spreads a deadly cloud of gas.

In minutes there are dead and dying, along with thousands choking and in panic,
coughing and overcome by nausea as they struggle to find their way out.

This was the nightmare that struck the world's busiest tube in Tokyo today as
terrorists planted 21 containers of a nerve gas developed by the Nazis. The
motive for the attack on the Teito rapid transport system is as yet unknown.

An act of 'indiscriminate murder, an atrocity,' it left at least six people
dead, and more than 3,200 afflicted, with 17 of them critically ill.

Westerners, some possibly British, are thought to be among the victims.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Choking victims of the Tokyo poison gas attack lie or sit on the
pavement struggling to breathe as rescuers move among them trying to help.
Thousands were affected by the gas, leaving emergency services overwhelme

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 20, 1995, Monday

TUBE CHIEFS HAVE BLUEPRINT TO COMBAT TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE:  Peter Woodman, Transport Correspondent, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 283 words


London Underground has emergency plans to cope with the kind of nerve gas attack
mounted today on Tokyo's crowded underground railway.  In the wake of the
deliberate poisoning which spread through the system and killed at least six
people and sickening thousands in Japan, a London Underground spokesman said:
"We have procedures for ventilation and for evacuation and for dealing with
various types of terrorist threat." He went on: "We don't really have enough
details of exactly what happened in Tokyo to fully comment but we do have a
whole range of emergency plans that we can put into effect." The spokesman
continued: "We are used to evacuating stations for a variety of resons and we do
this efficiently." LU has been particularly sensitive to any possible problem on
the Underground system since the tragic Kings Cross station fire of November
1987 when 30 people died.  Even the slightest sign of smoke invariably leads to
station evacuations and fire officer investigation.  Also, security was
particularly tight when IRA activity in London was at its height. Despite the
IRA ceasefire, LU still treats all suspicious articles with grave concern.
Glasgow also has its own underground - but at six-and-a-half miles long with 15
stations it is tiny compared to London or Tokyo.  A spokeswoman for Greater
Glasgow Passenger Transport Executive which owns and operates the system said:
"Our staff are well able to monitor everything that's going on. We have
established security systems with the emergency services.  "The incidence of
violence, vandalism or crime is very low, but that doesn't mean we are
complacent about passenger safety and security," added the spokeswoman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 The Press Association Limited

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 21, 1995

THE WHIFF OF TERROR;
The lesson of the Tokyo gas attack is that extremists are growing less rational
and more powerful

BYLINE: Martin Woollacott

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1760 words


JUST as we are on the point of achieving a general ban on chemical weapons in
warfare, they could reappear as an instrument of social violence in the hands of
deranged groups or individuals. This is the possibility raised by the Tokyo
nerve gas attack. If it is news from the future, it is very bad news indeed.

The change that Tokyo seems to illustrate is not necessarily to do with the
familiar nightmare of terrorists acquiring weapons of mass destruction. It is
that we could be at the beginning of a shift away from the relatively rational
world of terrorists, separatists, rebels, and coup makers toward an irrational
world of armed cults or crazed individuals who want to stage an apocalyptic
protest.

Such groups or individuals may have aims so fantastical that they are not
remotely realisable, not negotiable, and not even understandable. They may
recognise fewer and fewer of the limits on armed action that, it has to be
conceded, have been recognised in the past by most violent movements.

There is nothing surprising in extremists taking advantage of the latest
developments in military technology. Extremist techniques have marched in
lockstep with the development of small arms and high explosives. It is also true
that the difference between Sarin and Semtex is one of convention. It is only
convention which makes a weapon which chokes or paralyses seem more horrible
than one which burns or blasts its victims to death. Yet the existence of any
generally, even if not universally, observed ban on a category of weapons is a
thing worthwhile in itself.

Violence is, among many other things, usually a form of bargaining. Repulsive
though many of their operations have been, the activities of traditional
extremist groups like, for example, the IRA and ETA in Europe or Fatah in the
Middle East, have been rationally conditioned by their aims. Quite apart from
any considerations of morality, movements like this know that certain kinds of
violence would destroy what they are fighting for.

A national extremist movement fighting to create a separate state in Europe, for
instance, like ETA, could have no use for weapons of mass destruction in Madrid.
That would be to provoke revenge on a similar scale. And how could a state which
had perpetrated such a crime take its place among other European states? It
might end all prospect of existence, let alone independence. Similarly, the
often raised prospect - before the ceasefire - of an IRA attack on the Chunnel
is inherently implausible. It would be too great a blow to Britain, to France,
and to Europe to serve any conceivable purpose. We may also hazard that it would
be beyond what even violent Republicans would regard as morally justifiable. As
for the PLO, even when the West was most horrified by hijacking and airport
attacks, it was clear that they, too, recognised the need not to go beyond
certain limits. That might be to irretrievably alienate world public opinion and
to lose the option of being part of an American-backed settlement.

According to some students of the matter there could soon come a time when we
will look back to the era of the PLO and the IRA as a time of relative
simplicity and safety. Marvin

J Cetron, the co-ordinator of a recent report on terrorism for the US Department
of Defence, argued in an interview with the International Herald Tribune that we
will soon see the emergence of what he calls "super-terrorists" who will possess
nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons, and will "show a new willingness to
use them."

They will be motivated, he says, by ethnic and religious hatreds and their goal
will be "not political control but the utter destruction of their chosen
enemies." He also claimed that "an improvised nuclear, biological, or chemical
attack on the United States is increasingly probable - perhaps within the next
five years." Mr Cetron seems to hint at the use of such weapons by Islamic
fundamentalists especially.

In fact Islamist groups may be more subject to the influence of morality and to
rational calculations about their objects than many in the West are ready at
this moment to accept. The greater danger may arise from the growth in various
societies of cultish groups that are in a harsh and confrontational opposition
to society. They could end up using terrible weapons because they feel
threatened, as the Branch Davidians did at Waco, if such weapons are available
or can be relatively easily put together with limited resources. There is a
parallel growth of a kind of institutionalisation of the death-dealing
individual protester. Such men would usually have access only to automatic
weapons, but in a few freak cases, of which Japan may be one, they might have
access to much, much worse. Then the man who wreaks bloody havoc at a McDonald's
could wreak it across a whole city.

Because such groups or individuals have no sane objective and because they can
emerge overnight, they could be far more dangerous than established movements
which have many contacts with their opponents and some common interests.  We are
past the point where even very swift progress toward the banning or limiting at
very low, controlled levels of nuclear, chemical, and bacteriological weapons by
states, desirable although it is, will necessarily close off scenarios of this
kind. A few at least of the technologies are now so much in the public realm
that even a complete stoppage of their use by the military does not end the
possibility of backyard versions being used. Such versions would be nearly
useless to states, which need large reliable inventories of weapons and
effective means of delivery. They would also be useless to "rational" extremist
movements.

But they could cause devastation in the hands of millennial cults, splinter
groups from mainstream terrorist organisations, or individuals. There is evident
in many societies a militarisation of protest which could ultimately tend in the
same direction. The violent fringe of the anti-abortion movement in the US is an
obvious example. It is the combination of a violent group or individual without
rational ends and not in any bargaining relationship with a state or government
but holding hitherto unavailable means of destruction that is so threatening.

The Chemical Weapons Convention signed two years ago in Paris committed
representatives of 130 states to the complete banning of chemical weapons. Its
coming into force and the setting up of an Organisation for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons has been delayed by the dilatoriness of governments in
ratifying it. Perhaps Tokyo will clarify their minds. That would be a benefit.
But Tokyo shows that the disarmament of states will not necessarily involve the
disarmament of groups or individuals if we do not confront the pyschological and
social forces making for a militarisation of protest both by marginal groups and
disturbed individuals.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                             March 26, 1995, Sunday

POLICE FIND LINKS TO CULT IN NERVE GAS TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Kevin Rafferty

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1360 words

HIGHLIGHT: Japan watches in fear and fascination as hidden sect leader protests
innocence by video, Kevin Rafferty in Tokyo writes.


POLICE yesterday announced what everyone in Japan already believes: that they
have proof of a link between the militant religious cult, Aum Shinrikyo, and the
sarin nerve gas attack on the Tokyo subway last Monday, which killed 10 people
and injured 5,000.

After four days of raids on the sect's complex near Mount Fuji, in which
hundreds of tonnes of lethal chemicals were seized, police said chemical residue
found there matched residue in Tokyo subways and in other unresolved cases.
Until yesterday they had said their investigation into Aum concerned only
suspected links with kidnappings.

Police also said they had found a secret bunker beneath a building at the Mount
Fuji facility. Today they will use power shovels and excavators to drill holes
through concrete to search the bunker.  The underground facilities could be a
prison for keeping sect followers who wished to leave the group, or a secret
warehouse.

The central player in the saga, Aum's founder, Shoko Asahara, who believes that
Armageddon will come in 1997 and urges followers to drink his blood and semen,
is still in hiding.

He appeared in a video on Friday's television news to proclaim his innocence,
and surfaced again yesterday in a video broadcast to Aum's 36 branches, saying:
'I am seriously sick. Some 50 per cent of my 1,700 pupils are troubled with
sickness.  We have been sprayed with poisonous gases such as sarin and mustard
gas.'

Born 40 years ago as Chizuo Matsumoto, the fourth of seven sons of a tatami mat
shop owner, he does not look a leader, political or spiritual. Bearded, short
and tubby, he lacks a commanding presence.

In his video on Friday, his claims that the 40 lorry-loads of dangerous
chemicals that police carted away from Aum buildings were for the making pottery
and plastics made him seem almost boring, though a touch sinister, wrapped in
his purple robe.

For all this, he clearly meets the yearning for fulfilment of many Japanese.
One woman, nearing middle age and single, said last week that she had joined Aum
after seeing advertisements promising enlightment and eventually nirvana; she
thought that the organisation would add meaning to her 'lonely, rather empty
life'.

She spent several years with the cult before raising the courage to run away.
Now in her mid-40s, she is still nervous: she looks over her shoulder to see if
cult members are following her, and refuses point blank to give her name.

'Right from the start, I had to dedicate my life to them, to the exclusion of
anything or anyone else,' she recalls.

Sociologists say that the Nineties brought a change in attitude among many young
Japanese. Previously there was thirst for material possessions (the Louis
Vuitton handbag became the ultimate status symbol, and was carried in real or
fake form by up to half young Japanese women); these days most young people,
despite their wealth, feel empty. In the early Nineties, the 'search for the
self' and books on 'mindology' came into vogue.

Asahara tapped cleverly into this quest. 'He was very good at advertising and
canvassing the young,' says Taro Takimoto, a lawyer who advises some of the
people who have fled Asahara's embrace.

'For example, Aum approaches the young under the guise of such friendly sounding
organisations as amateur yoga clubs, meditation clubs, Nostradamus, astrology
and so on. Aum also fascinates young people by saying it is a source of esoteric
Tibetan Buddhism. It appeals to young people who don't know what hunger is and
cannot find a purpose in life. It is as if Aum can give them ultimate values.'

Once they are under his influence, Asahara steels his recruits with a fiercely
disciplined regime. The idea, says Takimoto, is to promote Asahara as being
'superior to God. He presents himself as someone like Buddha.'

Aum discipline is fierce. One older recruit tells how he was forced to drink
'several gallons of warm water and then to vomit, as part of my training. I told
them it was unbearable, but they never stopped.'

In last week's raids, cult members were found wearing apparatus that looked like
a rugby scrumcap, bristling with electrodes connected to batteries. This seems
to have been part of the 'Perfect Salvation' training system supposed to
transmit Asahara's brain waves to the wearers. Converts have to pay up to 10
million yen ( pounds 66,666) to be part of the programme and to get the chance
to drink Asahara's blood and semen as part of the transference of his powers.

Now all of Japan is waiting, in a mixture of horror and fascination, to see what
happens next.

It emerged last week that Aum organises itself along the lines of the
government's ministries. Takimoto concludes: 'Asahara may be charged with an
offence such as preparing to wage civil war, but that might actually make him
happy since his aim is to destroy Japan's and the world's systems of government
in Armageddon.'

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 March 27, 1995

RED ALERT;
(1) HOW WOULD WE RESPOND TO THE ULTIMATE TERROR OF A GAS ATTACK ON THE TUBE? (2)
LONDON VOICE

BYLINE: Mark Honigsbaum

SECTION: Pg. 31, 32, 49

LENGTH: 3880 words


VICTORIA station, 8am: the beginning of the morning rush hour. As commuters
spill on to the platforms the station becomes a seething throng. Normally, the
crowds would head straight for the Underground and various points on the
District and Circle lines. But this morning their progress is about to be rudely
checked. For as they reach the Tube, their passage is suddenly blocked by
commuters coming the other way. People are choking and staggering. On the
platforms some already lie unconscious. Once again the unthinkable has happened.
London, like Tokyo last week, has become the target of a nerve gas attack.  The
question is, are we ready and would our emergency services be able to cope?

Given the parlous state of London's hospitals and the absence of a strategic
planning authority for the capital, our immediate reaction is to fear the worst.
In fact, the disaster may not be as bad as we think.  London's emergency
services insist they are as well prepared as any city could be to deal with a
nerve-gas attack. And thanks to the IRA's 20-year mainland terrorism campaign
and a series of riots - from Brixton to the poll tax - in the 1980s, the
emergency services' nerve has already been tested in a number of crises.  The
Metropolitan Police, which would take the lead role should there be a terrorist
attack on the capital, argues that London has an integrated emergency management
system that is both rapid and flexible enough to deal with any eventuality.
However, not everyone shares its confidence.

Last week a Marchioness survivor reminded an inquest of how in the confusion of
the rescue attempt on the Thames six years ago, a police launch accidentally
chopped off one of her legs. And who could forget the tragedy of King's Cross
where passengers fleeing the flames and smoke were sent towards the erupting
fireball?

The problem is that contingency plans for a nerve-gas attack - if indeed such
plans exist - are classified, which means the Met's claims cannot be tested
until an attack actually occurs (it is thought that such plans were drawn up
during the Gulf War when Saddam Hussein threatened terrorist reprisals with
chemical and biological weapons).

However, through quizzing emergency planning experts, the Evening Standard has
reconstructed what might happen in the event of such an attack at Victoria
Underground station. This examination raises a number of worrying questions
about the civilian emergency services' ability to deal with nerve agents and to
treat the huge numbers of likely casualties. In addition it is not clear how the
police would co-ordinate their response with the military who, given the scale
of the disaster, would inevitably be called in to help.  In the days of the GLC,
when the emphasis was more on civil defence and the threat of nuclear attack by
a foreign power, emergency planning was supposed to take place in a disused tram
tunnel in Kingsway. With the abolition of the GLC, however, this bunker was
closed in 1987 and these days it is assumed that the response to any major
disaster would be co-ordinated by the Met from its Central Communication
Complex. This is a fully computerised command centre at New Scotland Yard which
as well as being activated in crises is used on special occasions, such as the
Notting Hill Carnival and royal events.

TOURING the complex, it is hard not to be impressed. In addition to a bridge
where the 'Gold' level commander would take charge of a major incident,

there are nine separate control pods for co-ordinating a series of emergencies
spread over separate areas, as in a spate of copycat riots.

Since 1973 the Met has taken the lead in co-ordinating planning for major
disasters through the London Emergency Services Liaison Panel, a voluntary group
which brings together all London's police authorities (including the British
Transport police), as well as the fire and ambulance services, the London Fire
and Civil Defence Authority and the 33 London boroughs.

The panel's work is embodied in the 'Carousel', a section of the command room
where members of each of the emergency services can monitor and co-ordinate the
response of their vehicles from their own computer terminals.  In theory the
command room can cope with any disaster, from a Lockerbie-style plane crash over
the City (albeit at a lower altitude), to a flooding from one of the older
tunnels running under the Thames, to leaks of hazardous chemicals, like
chlorine, from tankers and industrial plants.

In any crisis, however, ultimate responsibility rests not with the panel but
with the Home Office. And it is assumed

that in the event of a Tokyo-scale disaster, involving potentially thousands of
casualties, the Government would have to step in to approve military support.

In theory this would be co-ordinated by the commander of the Army's London HQ at
Whitehall under protocols known as MACC, Military Aid to the Civil Community,
with ministers kept informed via the Civil Contingencies Unit attached to the
Cabinet Office.

The problem is, no one knows whether this system would work in practice.  Unlike
the civilian emergency services, most of the Army does not work weekends.
Moreover, its resources are geared towards civil defence not emergency planning.

So how would the civilian emergency services respond if terrorists planted
nerve-gas canisters at Victoria during the morning rush hour? Would they be able
to identify the nerve agent? And what equipment would be available to aid the
rescue attempt and contain the contamination?

Let us assume the worst. Many months have passed and the memory of Tokyo has
faded. It's any other weekday morning in London and the last thing anyone is
expecting is a nerve-gas attack.

At 8am canisters explode simultaneously on trains arriving on the District,
Circle and Victoria lines. As the doors open, people fall on to the platform,
choking and gagging. Some collapse, others stagger towards the exits. Even as
they do, passengers descending the escalators also begin to succumb to the
invisible fumes.

Within minutes someone - an Underground attendant, a passenger with a mobile
phone - has raised the alarm. Whether it is British Transport police or Scotland
Yard which gets the 999 call first, the response is virtually simultaneous. As
the BTp control room at 55 Broadway, near St James's Park, dispatches officers
to secure the scene, so 'GT Ops' at New Scotland Yard swings into action,
sending a police rapid-response vehicle, ambulances and fire engines.

Within 15 minutes all the major emergency services should have arrived at
Victoria. What happens next depends on the scale of the attack and the extent of
the casualties.

IN Tokyo, the fire department immediately dispatched a special toxic chemical
response team. In London, however, only six Fire Brigade crews - known as Fire
Rescue Units - are equipped with gas-resistant suits of the type used in Tokyo.
Although each crew is equipped with four suits, regulations dictate that only
half of these - 12 - can be used at any one time. Moreover, the units are based
at stations as far apart as Euston, Heston, Finchley, East Ham, Lewisham and
Croydon.

However, every fire station is equipped with ordinary chemical hazard suits and
in practice whatever equipment was available at the time would be used. In all
the Fire Brigade estimates that it could mobilise up to 150 firefighters with
some kind of protective suit and breathing apparatus. But while the first units
would reach the scene within five to eight minutes, it could take as long as two
hours for the brigade to reach its full strength.  In the meantime the London
Ambulance Service (LAS) would be facing more pressing priorities: to identify
the most serious casualties and decide how to treat and evacuate them.

In the event of an attack at Victoria, the first casualties would be ferried to
St Thomas's, but given the likely number of injuries - in Tokyo 5,000 people
were affected and 700 needed hospital treatment - the disaster could soon prove
overwhelming, especially given the need for doctors with specialist knowledge of
chemical agents. This is assuming, of course, that by now someone has figured
out that nerve gas is the culprit.

The only civilian organisation in London equipped to make that diagnosis is TBV
Science in Southwark, a team of environmental scientists who are contracted to
the fire service for just such an eventuality. But in an emergency medics could
also consult the National Poisons Unit at Guy's Hospital which maintains a
database on toxins and has experience of treating soldiers in the Gulf War. In
addition, stand-by doctors, known as BASICs, specialists from nearby A and E
departments and mobile medical teams from other London hospitals could be
brought in by the Helicopter Emergency Service (HEMs) or by police helicopters.

In previous emergencies, such as the Clapham rail crash and the St Mary Axe
bombing in the City, these mobile teams worked well and London's hospitals were
not overwhelmed.

Unfortunately, since 1990 London has lost 13 A and E units. According to David
Taylor, an LAS emergency planning officer, this means that in the event of a
disaster on the scale of Tokyo, hospitals outside the London regions would
probably have to be mobilised to deal with the extra casualties.  Given the
pressure on the civilian services, at some point the police would be forced to
request military assistance. The problem is, no one knows how quickly the
military could mobilise its chemical-warfare teams.

SCOTLAND Yard's first port of call would almost certainly be the Chemical
Defence Establishment at Porton Down. The Health Control and Monitoring Force
(HCMF) based at Royal Air Force St Albans, in Wales, could also be mobilised at
short notice, although its equipment is designed for a nuclear-weapons incident,
not nerve gas. In addition, it is assumed that servicemen still have access to
chemical suits issued during the Gulf War.  The problem is, no one knows where
are they and how quickly they could be got to Victoria.  Jack Holloway, the head
of emergency planning at the London Fire and Civil Defence Authority, which
advises the London boroughs on emergency scenarios, considered this very issue
four years ago at the outset of the Gulf War. In a report to the Home Office, he
concluded that to be effective the Government should pre-position military
response vehicles equipped with chemical-warfare equipment in each of the four
London health regions.  However, he never received a response from the Home
Office and does not know to this day whether the Government took up his
recommendations.

Ideally, Holloway says, the fire and ambulance services should be provided with
the proper equipment and training so that they do not need to rely on the
military. In the case of control of hazardous chemical sites, which come under
the remit of the Health and Safety Executive for instance, Holloway says the
emergency planning arrangements are already very good.  'Unfortunately, the same
cannot be said for other types of disaster,' he adds. 'The problem with the
military approach is it's reactive and authoritarian, whereas what you need in
most crises is co-operation and co-ordination.' Holloway also worries that while
the Met would cope well with the initial emergency, a major disaster could
create logistical problems for the London authorities that have to clean up
afterwards. A plane crash over the City, for instance, or a flooding, would
impact on several London boroughs at once. Yet following the collapse of
regional civil-defence planning at the end of the Cold War, local authorities
have had little or no training in the aftermath of emergencies.

Given this strategic-planning vacuum, Holloway thinks it inevitable that in the
event of a major disaster in London the Government would be forced to intervene.
The problem is that although the Home Office appointed a civil-emergency adviser
several years ago, he has no executive powers. In effect, which branch of
Government takes responsibility for co-ordinating London's response will depend
crucially on the nature of the disaster itself. If it's nerve gas then the
Ministry of Defence and/or the Department of the Environment will step in. But a
major domestic radiation leak would be down to the Department of Trade and
Industry.

Given this muddle, can we have any confidence that London's response to an
attack on the scale of Tokyo's will be swift and effective? There is a school of
thought that a crisis brings out the best in the British. Indeed, Tom
Horlick-Jones, an expert in risk management at the London School of Economics,
who has compared London's emergency procedures to New York where planning flows
down from the mayor's office, believes that in the event of a major disaster
London's 'bottom-up' system may prove to be more of an advantage than we
imagine.

'The truth is there's precious little anyone can do to plan for a nerve-gas
attack,' says Horlick-Jones. 'Having said that, because of the absence of a
strategic authority in London, the police, fire and ambulance services have had
to work hard to find a flexible way of integrating their command and response
structures. In a major emergency that flexibility might just give London an
edge.'

COUNTDOWN TO CRISIS

How London's emergency services might respond to a nerve-gas attack on the
Underground

NERVE-gas canisters containing sarin explode simultaneously on trains arriving
at Victoria Underground station at the height of the rush hour.

AS the doors open some passengers collapse on the platform, others stagger
towards the booking hall. Commuters descending the escalators also begin to
succumb to the fumes

EMERGENCY services alerted by a 999 call. Information room at New Scotland Yard
immediately dispatches a fast-response vehicle, fire and ambulance crews.
Simultaneously, station staff alert British Transport police to send officers to
secure disaster scene.

FIRE engines equipped with breathing gear arrive from Lambeth. Because there is
no sign of smoke, senior officers, suspecting some kind of toxic chemical, radio
for a Fire Rescue Unit equipped with gas-type suits to be dispatched from
Euston.

AMBULANCES arrive and begin assessing casualties. Because of the number of
injured, ambulance crews immediately radio for back-up and alert Scotland Yard
to initiate its major-incident procedure.

AS firefighters equipped with chemical and gas-type suits arrive, confusion
reigns at the disaster scene. By now nearly one hundred people, including rescue
workers, are lying injured, but medics still do not know the cause.  Fire
Brigade radios for help from a team of environmental scientists. The
Metropolitan Police activates its Central Command Complex at New Scotland Yard
to co-ordinate the emergency services' response.

FIRST casualties begin arriving at St Thomas's Hospital, overwhelming the
accident and emergency department. LAS control diverts ambulances to Chelsea and
Westminster, and Charing Cross, and radios for mobile medical teams from other A
and E units to be flown in by helicopter.

NATIONAL Poisons Unit at Guy's Hospital advises that medics may be dealing with
nerve agent and begins search of its toxic-chemicals database.

BY now it is clear to the Met that it may be dealing with a terrorist attack.
'Gold' commander alerts Home Secretary. Army put on stand-by.

NEARLY a full hour after canisters explode, scientists confirm nerve-gas
diagnosis. By now all six Fire Rescue Units mobilised but only 80 firefighters
in gas or chemical-type suits have reached the disaster scene.  Fearing spread
of contamination throughout the Underground, Home Secretary requests military
aid and shuts down the Tube system.

LONDON Army HQ alerts Chemical Defence Establishment at Porton Down and begins
mobilising its chemical-warfare teams. Military helicopters begin assisting
police and ambulance with airlift of worst casualties.

CRISIS reaches its height. So far 12 people are dead and many hundreds more lie
injured. Air tents have been set up in Victoria station to treat worst
casualties. Because of pressure on London A and E units, the Department of
Health orders airlift of most critical cases to hospitals in the Home Counties.
No one knows whether the Army will be able to contain the spread of the nerve
gas in time to prevent further deaths.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 28, 1995, Tuesday

MACHETE ATTACK TERROR;
Dale Dolan given community service after attacking man with a machete

SECTION: Page 11

LENGTH: 66 words


A thug with a machete who slashed a man after a night out at Hanger 13 walked
free from court yesterday.

Dale Dolan, 22, of Castlemilk Drive, Glasgow, was given 240 hours community
service.

Ayr Sheriff Court heard that Dolan attacked a man on a bus bound for Paisley
after he was beaten up the week before.

Sheriff Gow said that as Dolan was a first offender he would not jail him.


LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 28, 1995, Tuesday

NAZI THUGS TERROR;
Street attacks on homeless;
Big Issue magazine vendors being beaten up in Aberdeen by Nazi thugs

BYLINE: Marie Sharp

SECTION: Page 19

LENGTH: 145 words


Skinhead Nazi thugs are terrorising the homeless selling the Big Issue magazine.

A gang of up to eight men has been targeting them in Aberdeen.

Six vendors have been beaten up in the last month and others have been
threatened and spat on.

Police say few of the attacks are reported because the victims are too scared to
come forward.

The vendors are being forced from their regular street corners to the suburbs to
avoid the thugs.

One vendor who was kicked unconscious in the city centre has already moved out.

He said: "They watched me for days before beating me up and after that at least
two stood across the street from me every day until I moved.

"Most have skinheads and a few have swastikas tattooed on their arms or on their
jackets.

"They said they didn't want scum like me littering their streets and said get
out or be eliminated. "


LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             March 31, 1995, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS RISE IN ULSTER

BYLINE:  Ian Graham, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 163 words


IRA "punishment" attacks have been stepped up since the ceasefire last
September, according to official figures released today.  The terrorists may
have put their guns away but they have carried on with attacks, beating people
with iron bars and baseball bats - and often inflicting worse injuries than a
bullet in the leg used to. Since the ceasefire republicans have been responsible
for 52 reported punishment beatings, according to RUC records.  During the same
period the previous year, they "kneecapped" 17 people and beat two.  There has
also been no let-up in attacks by loyalist groups.  Since the start of September
they have been recorded as carrying out 33 beatings, and 13 punishment shootings
between the start of the IRA ceasefire and their own on October 13.  During the
same time in the previous year, they shot 27 and beat 15.  Sinn Fein and
political parties linked with loyalist paramilitaries have made public calls for
a halt to the violence.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 The Press Association Limited

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            April 5, 1995, Wednesday

TERROR OF GUN ATTACK VICTIM;
Tony McCormack shot by gunman who then told him to go to hospital

SECTION: Page 11

LENGTH: 134 words


A gunman blasted his victim then told him: "I've just shot you. I think you'd
better go to hospital." Shocked Tony McCormack had no idea he had been shot.

The bullet went clean through his left leg and ended up on the bathroom floor of
his home in Easterhouse, Glasgow.

And last night his girlfriend Karen McCafferty said: "The gun must have had a
silencer because there was no noise." The hitman calmly walked past neighbours,
who had gathered in the close, then disappeared.

Tony was shot as he answered the door of his flat at 10.25pm on Monday in
Conisborough Road.

Karen's kids, Fiona, aged seven, and 18-month-old Kelly Marie were there at the
time.

But Fiona managed to escape with her sister through a window.

Tony is in Glasgow Royal Infirmary where his condition is stable.


LOAD-DATE: April 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 8, 1995

Cheers as rapist is jailed for life Twelve-year reign of terror ends for brutal
attacker who 'poses serious risk to women'

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 574 words


A RAPIST who waged terror for 12 years was jailed for life yesterday.

Women in the public gallery, all either victims or alleged victims of Kevin
Lakeman, cheered when Mr Justice Potts passed sentence at Newcastle upon Tyne
Crown Court. Several broke down and wept -- one was only 13 when she was
attacked.

Lakeman, 33, an unemployed father of five, formerly of Sunderland, initially was
charged with 30 serious sex offences.

He was being sentenced after being found guilty at Leeds Crown Court last month
of two rapes and one attempted rape in the space of 24 hours on New Year's Day,
1982, in the Downhill area of Sunderland.

He had already admitted frogmarching an 18-year-old mother at knifepoint on New
Year's Day, 1994, to a city centre car park in Sunderland, where he raped her.

A further eight charges of rape and four of attempted rape, all involving
attacks in Sunderland between 1982 and 1994, have been ordered to lie on file
because it would not be in the public interest to proceed with them.

At his trial, it was explained how Lakeman put fear into the minds of his
victims. He told one that he had escaped from a "nut house", another that he had
escaped from a prison in London, and a third that he would "slice her up" if she
reported him.

Lakeman, burly and wearing a rugby shirt, showed no emotion yesterday as the
judge told him he posed a serious risk to women and would be put away for an
indefinite period.

He will not be considered for release for at least 12 years, and if he then
remains in jail it will be another six years before further consideration is
given.

The judge stressed: "That does not mean you will be released from custody at 12
or 18 years. You will remain in custody so long as it is necessary for the
protection of the public."

During yesterday's sentencing, the judge reminded Lakeman that he originally
denied the two rapes and the attempted rape, but it seemed from psychiatric
reports that he was now admitting those offences."

Earlier, David Robson, QC, defending, spoke of the need for Lakeman to develop a
clear understanding of the reasons why he sexually attacked and humiliated
women.

He had expressed the view that he wanted help so that he could understand why he
behaved this way.

However, Mr Robson added, Lakeman still did not agree he was responsible for the
eight rapes and four attempted rapes which had been left on file.

Outside the court, Detective Superintendent Dave Wilson, of Northumbria Police,
said: "This is certainly a sentence we have been working towards for a number of
years."

He said the women in the public gallery were all victims of Lakeman. "This has
been a very emotional day for them. Certainly they all feel relief that Lakeman
has been given a sentence he deserves."

Lakeman's trial heard that he was trapped by a new technique to test DNA which
came on stream only last August.

A DNA pattern from a sample of Lakeman's blood, which had been "grown" by
forensic scientists, was compared with semen taken from a 16-year-old girl, one
of the victims on New Year's Day, 1982.

Lakeman had denied raping the girl in the grounds of Hilton Castle. He also
denied raping a 20-year-old woman on a playing field and attempting to rape an
18-year-old.

The jury heard that Lakeman, high on amphetamine sulphate or "speed", confessed
to a friend in a nightclub that he had raped a woman.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Kevin Lakeman, who warned one of his victims that he would "sl ice her
up" if she reported him, was sentenced yesterday for committing a series of
brutal attacks on women.  Picture: PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 8, 1995, Saturday

Victims cheer as rapist gets life; DNA test traps attacker who terrorised women
for 12 years

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Page  7

LENGTH: 582 words


A rapist whose crimes against women in Sunderland spanned 12 years, was jailed
for life yesterday.

Women in the public gallery, all either victims of rapes for which he has been
convicted or of attacks he is alleged to have committed, cheered when Mr Justice
Potts passed sentence at Newcastle upon Tyne Crown Court on Kevin Lakeman.

Several broke down and wept; one was only 13 when she was attacked.

Lakeman, 33, burly and wearing a rugby shirt, showed no emotion as the judge
told him he posed a serious risk to women and would be put away for an
indefinite period.

The terms of the sentence mean he will not be considered for release until he
has served at least 12 years. If he stayed in jail then, his case would not be
reconsidered for another six years. The judge said: "That does not mean you will
be released from custody at 12 or 18 years.  You will remain in custody so long
as it is necessary for the protection of the public."

Lakeman, an unemployed father of five children, formerly of Ribble Road,
Sunderland, was found guilty at Leeds Crown Court last month of two rapes and
one attempted rape in the space of 24 hours on New Year's Day, 1982, in the
Downhill area of Sunderland.

He had already admitted one charge of raping an 18-year-old girl in a city
centre car park at Sunderland in the early hours of New Year's Day 1994. A
further eight rape charges and four of attempted rape, all involving attacks in
Sunderland between 1982 and 1994, were left on file.

Lakeman was initially charged with a total of 30 serious sex offences.

The judge said: "I am satisfied, having regard to the circumstances of all these
cases, and having regard to the contents of the report made on you by two
psychiatrists. . . that you pose a serious risk to women and are likely to do so
for an indefinite period.

"I am satisfied it is necessary, for the protection of the public, that you be
sentenced to an indeterminate period of imprisonment. That is life
imprisonment."

Outside the court, Detective Superintendent Dave Wilson of Northumbria Police
said: "This is certainly a sentence we have been working towards for a number of
years. He is a very dangerous man, a very cool, calm calculated and determined
liar." Referring to the women in the public gallery, Det Supt Wilson added:
"This has been a very emotional day for them. Certainly they all feel relief
that Lakeman has been given a sentence he deserves."

During Lakeman's trial at Leeds, the court was told that he was trapped by a new
technique to test DNA which only became available last August.

A DNA pattern from a sample of Lakeman's blood, which had been "grown" by
forensic scientists, was compared with semen from a 16-year-old girl, one of the
victims on New Year's Day, 1982.

He had denied raping the girl in the grounds of Hilton Castle. He also denied
raping a 20-year-old woman on a playing field and attempting to rape an
18-year-old woman. He admitted frogmarching an 18-year-old mother to a car park
at knifepoint on New Year's Day 1994 where he raped her.

The jury heard that Lakeman, high on amphetamine sulphate or "speed", confessed
to a friend in a nightclub that he had raped a woman.

It was explained during the trial how he used to put fear into the minds of his
victims. He told one that he had escaped from a "nuthouse", another that he had
escaped from a prison in London and a third that he would "slice her up" if she
reported him.


LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             April 10, 1995, Monday

OAP IN TERROR SLASH ORDEAL;
Pensioner attacked in her home

SECTION: Page 9

LENGTH: 134 words


APENSIONER was seriously ill yesterday after she was repeatedly slashed in her
home.

The brave 66-year-old woman was attacked after trying to fight off a man in her
home on Saturday night.

Despite being slashed on her upper body and face, she managed to raise the alarm
with a neighbour in Fox Street, Greenock.

Vicious

She was rushed to Inverclyde Hospital where doctors last night said her
condition was serious but stable.

Her attacker was described as a man in his mid-20s, 5ft 10in tall, slim and with
sharp features.

He had brown hair, an earring in his left ear and was wearing a dark jacket with
leather shoulder patches.

Detective Sergeant Dougie McCracken said "This was a vicious attack on a
defenceless woman."

Anyone with information should contact Greenock police.


LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 20, 1995

ETA CAR BOMB FAILS TO KILL SPANISH OPPOSITION LEADER;
Government condemns latest Basque terrorist attack as 'repulsive'

BYLINE: Mark Milner And Adela Gooch

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 880 words


FIFTEEN people were injured in an unsuccessful car bomb attack in Madrid
yesterday on Jose Maria Aznar, the leader of Spain's main opposition party, the
conservative Partido Popular (Popular Party).

The attack, blamed on the Basque separatist movement ETA, suggested a further
escalation of its campaign against leading politicians.

The bomb virtually destroyed Mr Aznar's car and its 16 tonnes of armour plating
but Mr Aznar was only slightly hurt.

A woman of 75, who was crushed by a wall as she slept, was described as
"critical".

The remote-controlled bomb, hidden in a parked car, exploded as Mr Aznar was
being driven to work from his home in northern Madrid. A second car - believed
to be the bombers' getaway vehicle - was blown up an hour later.

A second bomb, in an abandoned Civil Guard barracks in Navarre, killed a
policeman. Police said it could have been a trap set by Basque terrorists.

Politicians condemned the attempt on Mr Aznar's life.  Mr Aznar's number two,
Rodrigo Rato, visiting London, described it as terrible and indiscriminate, and
said it showed ETA's "criminal attitude".

The justice and interior minister, Juan Alberto Belloch, said the attack was
"all the more repulsive for being directed at a political leader - the
democratic representative of a large part of our population".

Mr Aznar is the highest-profile target of an ETA attack since 1973, when Luis
Carrero Blanco, prime minister under Franco, was killed. Most of the 800 people
killed by ETA during its 26-year fight for Basque independence have been members
of the security forces, although earlier this year it shot dead Gregorio
Ordonez, the Popular Party leader in the strongly nationalistic Basque province
of Guipuzcoa.

Police protection of leading party members has been stepped up since the
shooting.

Mr Rato said yesterday's attack had been designed to produce a sense of fear,
but said the terrorists would not be allowed to disrupt Spain's economic and
political stability.

"Figures in Spanish military and political life have been targeted by ETA for
too many years. That is a great sorrow for us, but it is not going to disturb
the stability of Spanish institutions . . . or the Spanish democratic system."

The Popular Party, which is expected to do well in the local elections next
month, supports a strong centralised state and is seen as less sympathetic than
some parties towards demands for greater regional self-rule. It is also expected
to win the next general election, which must be held by 1997 at the latest.

Mr Rato said he did not believe the Popular Party was being singled out by ETA.

ETA told the Basque-language newspaper Egunkaria that "professional politicians"
were legitimate targets who "have understood that the consequences of the
prolongation of the conflict (over Basque independence) will effect everyone".

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 20, 1995, Thursday

Japanese shaken by new gas attack; YOKOHAMA TRAIN TERROR: Only a month after the
Tokyo atrocity and despite strict security, terrorists humiliate the police

BYLINE: RICHARD LLOYD PARRY in Yokohama

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  12

LENGTH: 555 words


FROM RICHARD

LLOYD PARRY

in Yokohama

The Japanese authorities last night faced the humiliating fact that, despite an
intensive police investigation and a nation-wide security effort, another
terrorist attack had been carried out under their noses.

Yokohama, where phosgene gas poisoned nearly 400 people yesterday, is 15 miles
from central Tokyo; it is Japan's second- biggest city and its largest port.
Like everywhere else in the country, it has been subjected to unprecedented
security in the past few weeks. Since the sarin nerve- gas attack which killed
12 commuters on the Tokyo subway on 20 March, extra police have been deployed on
the streets, spot-checks have been carried out on motorists, and stations and
other transport terminals have regularly issued warnings about suspicious
packages. But 22 people were in hospital last night after the phosgene fumes
spread through Yokohama's main station, possibly from bags left in a passageway.

The attack demonstrated how effectively the security of Japan's cities has been
destroyed by recent events. After the first signs of the gas, witnesses said,
panic spread. "No one working in this area noticed any smell but then someone
started talking about funny fumes and the fear spread," said the manager of a
kiosk at the station. "After the ambulance and police arrived it was a
chain-reaction. Unconsciously, sarin is on everyone's minds and I reckon it was
the sight of the police that made them feel sick."

Naokatsu Hori, who was scrubbing the floors of the station two hours after the
attack, said: "Everyone who works here is pretty scared. We're always being
warned about suspicious parcels and what to do if we see something but then this
happens. It seems as if there's nothing you can do."

Investigators appeared to be torn between the need to gather evidence and the
wish to maintain services and prevent panic. Cordons, which were removed
yesterday afternoon, were back in place last night as investigators sought
evidence on floors already trodden by thousands of commuters.

Suspicion will undoubtedly fall on Aum Shinri Kyo, the cult still being
investigated in connection with the Tokyo attack.For more than a month police
have been raiding the cult's laboratories and offices, removing gun parts,
chemical and biological- weapon ingredients and evidence that the sect was
planning to buy tanks and even make nuclear weapons. Kiyohide Hayakawa, the
sect's second in command, was arrested last night but, like most of the 90 cult
members in custody, he was held on a minor charge.

Earlier yesterday the Diet had enacted a bill banning use, production, import or
possession of sarin, but with the use of phosgene, events seem to have overtaken
it again. "The most important thing for the criminals now is that they leave no
evidence," said Professor Keiichi Tsuneishi, a chemical-weapons specialist at
Kanagawa University. "If sarin had been used, it would have left traces and the
investigators could identify whether the sarin used in Tokyo and Yokohama was
the same. I reckon that the perpetrators wanted to show that, even with this new
law enacted, they can still get away with terrorism.'' and one of the victims
(right) is taken to an ambulance. Last night 22 people were still in hospital
Photographs: Reuter/AP


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 21, 1995, Friday

Random attack on Wall Street; TERROR IN OKLAHOMA 1920 PRECEDENT

SECTION: FOREIGN; Page  2

LENGTH: 118 words


Washington - The worst act of terrorism on American soil until Wednesday's
outrage in Oklahoma City occurred on Wall Street in New York, on 16 September
1920, writes John Carlin.

Forty people died and hundreds were injured after a bomb placed in a horse cart
blew up outside a bank building. The explosion was coldly calculated to inflict
maximum random slaughter among innocent, ordinary Americans.  The bomb went off
at 12.30 pm in the middle of the week - the office lunch hour - on New York's
busiest street.

The police never caught the perpetrators. The suspects were variously identified
at the time as Communists, as Italian terrorists and as anarchists who then fled
to Russia.


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            April 22, 1995, Saturday

GAS TERROR IN STORE;
Gas attack in the Vivre 21 department store in Japan

SECTION: Page 2

LENGTH: 189 words


A poison gas attack sparked terror in a Japanese department store yesterday.

Twenty-five people were taken to hospital after the sinister incident in
Yokohama, which came after two gas attacks on the country's rail system.

The Vivre 21 department store is only 300 yards from Yokohama's main railway
station, where hundreds of people were were overcome by gas on Wednesday.

The store victims had the same symptoms as those struck down on Wednesday - sore
throats, burning eyes and nausea - although the effects weren't as severe.

Police say sarin, the nerve gas which killed 12 people and injured 5000 in the
Tokyo subway last month, was not used in the Yokohama attacks.

The Aum Shinri Kyo, or Supreme Truth, religious cult are the main suspects for
the Tokyo horror.

Police raids on sect buildings uncovered all the ingredients needed to make
sarin.

Japan's terrified people are desperate for the gas attackers to be caught and
their patience with the police is wearing thin.

A senior police official, who refused to be named, said: "If we don't solve this
case at any cost, legal order will collapse."


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            April 22, 1995, Saturday

JAP GAS TERROR;
Gas attack in a Japanese department store

SECTION: Page 2

LENGTH: 138 words


A poison gas attack sparked terror in a Japanese department store yesterday.

Twenty-five people were taken to hospital after the sinister incident in
Yokohama, which came after two gas attacks on the country's rail system.

The Vivre 21 department store is only 300 yards from Yokohama's main railway
station, where hundreds of people were were overcome by gas on Wednesday. The
store victims had the same symptoms as those struck down on Wednesday - sore
throats, burning eyes and nausea.

Police say sarin, the nerve gas which killed 12 people and injured 5000 in the
Tokyo subway last month, was not used in the Yokohama attacks.

The Aum Shinri Kyo, or Supreme Truth, religious cult are the main suspects for
the Tokyo horror.

Police raids on sect buildings uncovered all the ingredients needed to make
sarin.


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 26, 1995

HEALTH: THE TERROR WITHIN;
Panic attacks and phobias devastate the lives of many people. But with patience
and resolve they can be conquered

BYLINE: John Illman

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGE; Pg. T4

LENGTH: 1174 words


ISOBEL WILLIAMS never thought twice about climbing aboard a train until she was
21 years old - when she developed an "Inter-City phobia." Two thirds of her way
from Liverpool to London, she was overwhelmed by panic. She became dizzy. Her
heart started to pound in response to the noise and speed of the train.

The guard inadvertently increased her fear by announcing proudly that they were
travelling well over 100 miles per hour. She tried to take her mind off things
by talking to someone, but she was unable to concentrate.

Fortunately, the train made an unscheduled stop at Milton Keynes and her panic
subsidided. But the experience was to have a profound effect on her life. Three
years later she is still baffled by the experience which occurred as she was
returning home from university at the end of term, feeling run-down after the
flu.

Isobel is one of three million people in Britain with a "situational phobia",
commonly understood as agoraphobia, according to Alice Neville, author of the
book Who's Afraid, and co-ordinator of Pax, named after the Latin word for
peace, an information service for those who suffer from panic attacks and
phobias.

Isobel was severely affected. She had been due to make a return journey to
Liverpool, but she says: "I started out for Euston from my parents' home in
Kent, but I didn't get any further than Victoria. The information desk said the
only way to get to Liverpool by train was on Inter-City, and that was that."

Isobel returned home, afraid of travelling fast and of travelling for long
periods between stops at the stations. "I went to the doctor who wasn't that
surprised and gave me a sick note, saying that these things happen. I was
surprised they were so understanding. I'd expected them to say: 'Pull yourself
together.'

"My mum took me back to Liverpool a few days later in the car. I was then able
to make short train journeys from Liverpool to Wigan, or Liverpool to Chester,
but I haven't been on a train for a year now. I've never been on an aeroplane,
but I had a gap year between school and university and spent three months in
France. I was quite happy travelling.

"Now I won't leave England which is frightening. I feel trapped. I have a German
boyfriend, but I've never been to Germany to meet his parents. I know I'm
missing out, especially when I read about exotic holidays and hear about
friends' travel experiences."

Isobel also feels threatened by crowds and queues, but says: "I don't panic a
lot now because I avoid situations that will lead to it". A psychology and
sociology graduate, she is working as a classroom assistant in a suburban
primary school. She has asked herself if she could take up a job in central
London, but she is not optimistic.

Alice Neville had a similar experience to Isobel in the 1950s, also at the age
of 21. She wanted to work in the suburbs to avoid travel on trains and buses.
She recalls: "It sounds ridiculous, but waiting at a bus-stop was hellish
thing."

But she was determined to keep her "very good" job at the Foreign Office where
she had lots of friends. Every morning she was physically sick with fright at
the prospect of the journey into central London. Like Isobel, she was afflicted
after a bout of flu.

She says: "It's now known that agoraphobia can be triggered by an inner ear
dysfunction caused by a virus such as flu. It's amazing the number of people who
write to me describing experiences like this."

Alice says she is totally cured, but while preparing her book, she completed a
questionnaire in which she said her last attack had occurred 35 years ago. The
psychiatrist wrote at the bottom of the form: "In remission." Concerned that her
phobia was still buried within her subconscious, she visited parts of
Westminster she had avoided for more than three decades - and found, to her
relief, that "the ghost" really had been exorcised.

For a free introductory booklet about panic attacks, phobias and other anxiety
disorders, send two 25p stamps to Pax, 4 Manorbrook, Blackheath, London SE3 9AW

The BBC2 mental health series, The Enemy Within, examines panic attacks on
Friday, at 9.40pm. The programme features the actress Imogen Stubbs who tells
how she overcame her problem with the help of a homoeopathic doctor and a
physiotherapist

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 3, 1995, Wednesday

Tudjman's blitzkrieg leaves UN in disarray; On the streets of a European
capital, a woman lies dead after a rocket attack. The war returns to terrorise
Zagreb

BYLINE: Michael SheridanDiplomatic Editor

SECTION: EUROPE; Page  11

LENGTH: 604 words


President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia declared victory last night after his
lightning military strike violently altered the balance of forces in the
Yugoslav conflict and left the United Nations in disarray.

President Tudjman's decision to send Croatian forces crashing through UN lines
to reclaim territory from rebel Serbs was a calculated gamble.  It aimed to show
the truth of his claim that the UN presence in Croatia has served only to freeze
the Serbian gains of 1991. Western diplomats, struggling to keep pace with
developments, quickly realised that the limited extent of the operation showed a
degree of ruthless planning worthy of the President's earlier career as a
Communist general.

The result, for President Tudjman, was a first recovery of substantial land lost
to the Serbs and a boost for his recently discredited brand of ethnic
chauvinism.

The Serbian barrage on Zagreb, by contrast, served only as symbolic retaliation
devoid of military effect. "If anything it may help Tudjman by reinforcing a
sense of collective adversity," a Western diplomat said.

The Croat blitzkrieg has shaken the UN policy in former Yugoslavia to its core.
Yesterday produced a Security Council resolution that was bound to be ignored by
Croatia, which argues that it had every right to regain its own sovereign
territory by arms. The Russian Foreign Minister, Andrei Kozyrev, called for a
new ceasefire on all the former Yugoslavia's war fronts, but offered no
practical suggestion as to how it might be enforced.

In London, John Major warned Parliament that "all-out war" - a suitably
imprecise term - would make the continued UN presence "absolutely untenable".

President Tudjman and his counterparts in Serbia and Bosnia will all be watching
the international reaction to see how far they can now test the will of the
nations contributing troops to the UN.

For their part, UN officials privately acknowledge that the ideal solution for
all the combatants would be for UN troops to stay in place, unable to impede the
clash of arms but continuing to deliver aid, which can be stolen to feed
soldiers, and to stabilise gains after each side has made its move.

Lord Owen, the European Union mediator, appeared to echo these concerns when he
said on Monday night that the UN would have to reconsider its position in
Bosnia.

The Bosnian government may now be emboldened by President Tudjman's success to
launch its own offensive, saying that if the UN cannot raise the siege of
Sarajevo then the Bosnian army should do so.

Mr Major was speaking for most governments with peacekeepers on the battlefield
when he said that renewed hostilities would put the UN presence in doubt.  But
there is as yet no agreement among those governments over how to assess the risk
and how to respond to it. Nor is there any sign of an attempt to rebuild the
political unity of the Contact Group -Britain, the US, France, Germany and
Russia.  Divisions within its ranks created diplomatic paralysis and paved the
way for the new outbreak of war.

In the next few days there will certainly be a series of discussions at top
level to discuss the whole issue of the former Yugoslavia. There will be a set
of meetings between leaders of all five contact group nations at VE day
ceremonies over the weekend and officials predict there will be "substantial"
diplomatic activity during the period.

Britain will discuss its own concerns over Nato's role in ensuring a safe
withdrawal of forces when the the Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, meets the
Nato Secretary-General, Willy Claes, tonight.


LOAD-DATE: May 03, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             May 6, 1995, Saturday

SCOTS DAD DIES IN TERROR ATTACK;
Scots father of four Allan Wilson was killed in ambush in Algeria

SECTION: Page 1

LENGTH: 194 words


A SCOTS father of four was killed in a terrorist ambush in Algeria yesterday.

Construction worker Allan Wilson, 42, of Edinburgh was shot dead by suspected
Islamic extremists.

A second Edinburgh-based worker, Canadian-born Jim McGarry, was also killed in
the early- morning massacre.

It happened at an oil refinery in the remote desert town of Ghardaia.

Both men worked for pipe-laying specialists Bredero Price, based in Burnham,
Buckingham- shire, and had been in Algeria for just five weeks.

Allan had been due to return home for good after several years working abroad
when he accepted the six-month contract .

Both Allan and Jim previously worked for British Pipe Coaters Ltd in Leith.
Employees stopped work yesterday as a mark of respect.

Three other foreign workers - two Frenchmen and a Tunisian - also were gunned
down, along with three Algerian military guards.

The men were part of a party of expat contractors working on a pipe-laying
project for an American firm. They were attacked within the compound of the
pipe- coating plant.

Last night Allan's grieving family of Northfield Circus were still waiting for
details.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                  May 6, 1995

Victims of the fanatics;
British oil firm workers shot dead as terrorists launch attack in Sahara

BYLINE: Peter Shard

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 800 words


TWO men working in the Sahara desert for a British firm were shot dead yesterday
in a terrorist massacre.

The pair, a Briton and a Canadian, died instantly at dawn when 20 gunmen from
the Armed Islamic Group stormed a pipe-making mill near Ghardia, 400 miles south
of Algiers.

Three other oil workers, a Frenchman, a Tunisian and an Algerian, were also cut
down in a hail of bullets. Conflicting reports said up to three of five armed
policemen guarding them were shot. Seven other workers survived the slaughter.

The two men who had been working for British Pipe Coaters of Leith, Edinburgh,
were Newcastle-born Alan Wilson, 44, with four children aged from four to 16,
and Canadian Jim McGarry, 46, who had three teenage children.  They had been
working in North Africa for five weeks.

At the family's terrace house in Willowbrae, Edinburgh, a sister of Mr Wilson's
wife Diane said: 'We are all so upset. We don't know how Alan died, only that he
and his friends were ambushed.

'There's so much red tape involved getting information through from Algeria. We
feel we're being kept in the dark.

'Diane and the children are in a state of shock. They are just going to have to
try to pick up the pieces.'

Mr Wilson is the second Briton to be killed in Algeria since Islamic militants
started a campaign of violence against foreigners.

Workmate Thomas Ramsay, also from Edinburgh, who returned from the site a few
days ago, said: 'I've just lost five friends.

'I'm told the terrorists just opened fire on everyone who was there and sprayed
them with bullets. It sounds as if they had no chance'.

The camp is home to dozens of foreign workers and is heavily guarded by police.
Despite Islamic threats, the remote site was not considered to be at serious
risk and all workers there had appeared happy to stay on.

The Algerian government issued a statement saying: 'We vigorously condemn this
odious attack and offer our sincere condolences to the relatives of the dead and
their governments.'

British Pipe Coaters is a subsidiary of Bredero Price of Berkshire.  Yesterday
the BPC office was closed as a mark of respect and staff who turned up for work
were sent home. Many left in tears.

A member of staff said: 'We are all very upset. Everyone knew Jim and Alan
really well, even though they were abroad a lot of the time. They were decent
lads.'

A total of 80 foreigners have been killed in Algeria since the Islamic group
launched its armed struggle after elections were cancelled three years ago. More
than 30,000 lives have been claimed in the fighting.

In January the Foreign Office warned that Britons should not go there.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 19, 1995

JEWS SET UP DEFENCE FORCE TO COMBAT TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: David Brindle And Alex Bellos

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 867 words


A CHARITY has been set up to recruit and train a national "volunteer force" of
Jews to guard synagogues, schools, cemeteries and other Jewish community
facilities.

The Charity Commission has approved the move on the grounds that the
organisation will "protect the lives and property of the Jewish community" and
counter anti-semitism and racism.

Mike Whine, a spokesman for the charity, the Community Security Trust, said
yesterday it had raised "hundreds of thousands" of pounds. Several hundred
volunteers were undergoing training.

"As a result of our work there ought to be security staff present at every
Jewish building when there are people in it," he said.

Creation of the volunteer force follows the bombing last summer of the Israeli
embassy in Kensington, west London, and of the Joint Israeli Appeal in Finchley,
in the north of the capital. Anti-semitic violence and vandalism have grown
across Europe.

Details of the Community Security Trust emerge in the annual report of the
Charity Commission, published today, which explains why commissioners decided to
grant it charitable status.

The trust's volunteers will offer protection for Jewish institutions and
community events, the report says. They will provide both a physical presence
and security advice.

As well as the primary purpose of setting up a volunteer force to protect the
Jewish community, the trust aims to forge links with other minority groups
subject to racism.

The report says: "Given the corrosive effects of anti-semitic racism on society
as a whole, we considered that such a purpose was in the public interest and for
the benefit of the wider community."

The trust was reluctant to go into detail yesterday about its activities.
However, Mr Whine, who is also defence spokesman for the Board of Deputies of
British Jews, said it had been set up to put security fund-raising on a firmer
footing.

"There is an increasing terrorist threat. If you look at the attacks, they are
not just against Israeli institutions, they are against Jewish institutions. We
need to protect against that," Mr Whine said.

The Charity Commission's report shows that the number of registered charities
continues to grow. During 1994, the total rose by 7,677 to a record 178,609.
Total income of the 151,000 main charities is estimated at pounds 12.9 billion,
up 12.3 per cent in a year.

The commission completed 523 inquiries into possible mismanagement or fraud
during 1994. In 297 cases, there was "significant cause for concern", and the
commission estimates it prevented pounds 1.5 million of fraud over the 12
months.

However, the commission says: "Our investigations continue to show that the
majority of problems are not caused by deliberate fraud or malpractice. More
commonly, difficulties arise from inadequate financial controls or from poor
management or administration."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             June 19, 1995, Monday

Yeltsin defends attack on 'world terrorism centre'

BYLINE: Martin Fletcher in Halifax, Nova Scotia

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 374 words


WORLD leaders attending the G7 summit publicly rebuked President Yeltsin for his
bloody military offensive in Chechenia, provoking the Russian leader into such a
flamboyant defence of his actions that his sobriety was once again questioned.

Cornered by Russian reporters before a meeting with President Clinton, Mr
Yeltsin launched into a furious harangue in which he seized on the Chechen
hostage-taking in Budennovsk to denounce Chechenia as ''the centre of world
terrorism, of bribery and corruption, and mafia''.

Red-faced and gesticulating wildly, he declared that the G7 leaders now had a
much better understanding of the ''kind of horrible criminals with black bands
on their foreheads'' with which he was dealing. He insisted: ''We could not act
otherwise. We had to destroy these terrorists and bandits.''

Mr Yeltsin even claimed that Dzhokhar Dudayev, the Chechen rebel leader, was
defecting to Turkey, a claim no one could corroborate.

Mr Clinton, whom Mr Yeltsin called ''my friend Bill'', sat beside the Russian
President looking nonplussed. American security guards wondered aloud what Mr
Yeltsin had had for lunch, and the American evening news programmes openly
questioned whether he had been drinking.

A senior Administration official admitted that the Russian leader was in
''emphatic mode'', but insisted he was ''very much on top of his game'' during
his subsequent meeting with Mr Clinton. The official attributed the outburst to
the pressure of events in Budennovsk. Throughout Mr Yeltsin's visit, his jet was
kept ready for take-off at a nearby air force base, in case the hostage crisis
demanded his return.

The G7 leaders strongly condemned the Chechen hostage-taking, but used a working
dinner with Mr Yeltsin to insist that he had to end the fighting in Chechenia
and seek a political solution. ''There was a sorrow at how far things had
degenerated and the leaders were able to talk frankly to him,'' a senior
Canadian official said.

At the summit's end, with Mr Yeltsin sitting awkwardly beside him, Jean
Chretien, the Canadian Prime Minister, read out a statement expressing the G7
leaders' ''strong belief that the situation in Chechenia should not be resolved
by military means''.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 Times Newspapers Limited

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             June 20, 1995, Tuesday

GUN TERROR ON ESTATE;
Gun attack in Renfrew

SECTION: Page 13

LENGTH: 84 words


Police launched a massive hunt yesterday after a gunman blasted off eight shots
in a housing estate yesterday.

Residents watched in horror as the maniac walked through Kirkland Neuk, in
Renfrew, with a pistol in his hand.

He strolled in to the local park and blasted away at random.

Then he fired again in a nearby building site. No-one was hit.

Armed police raced to the scene but the gunman could not be traced.

Last night they were still hunting the man, said to be in his late 20's.


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 22, 1995

WORLD'S 'SAFEST' COUNTRY GETS THAT SINKING FEELING;
The latest terror after subway attacks and earthquakes has shown that wealth
does not buy security, writes Kevin Rafferty in Tokyo

BYLINE: Kevin Rafferty

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1014 words


HIROMI YAMAGUCHI, a housewife with two young children, wailed: "It's terrible.
We used to think that Japan was the safest place on earth."

But now there seemed to be danger on every corner. "I can't travel on the subway
since the sarin gas attack, and I fear to let the children out alone. Now it
seems that the airlines are not safe. What happened to all the safety procedures
and X-ray checks?"

She was asking questions echoed by many other Japanese who have prided
themselves on not being like other countries, but more "civilised" and civil to
each other.

The "feel-good" factor in Japan has plummeted to an all-time low just as it has
become the world's richest country, with an average income of almost pounds
35,000.

First there was the Kobe earthquake, then the cult's poison attack on the Tokyo
subway, and now a hijack. They combine to teach Japan the painful lesson that
all the riches in the world will not buy safety, even though it sits on a $ 700
billion pile of foreign assets, the biggest ever acquired by any country
anywhere.

The economy has slipped into recession thanks to political bungling, US pressure
against the pounds 90 billion a year trade surpluses, and the remains of the
hangover of the spending 1980s, when confident Japanese were prepared to pay
sky-high prices for everything and anything.

Shijuro Ogata, a former top international official at the Bank of Japan, and now
a Barclays Bank director, summed up the unhappy mood. When asked by younger
former colleagues what could possibly happen next, he said: "Half-jokingly, I
told them that terrorism would come next.  I was thinking of the 1930s when
politicians were attacked, not of this."

In normal life, Japan still feels safer than most other countries. Any foreigner
acquainted with muggings in his own country can feel free on the streets of
Tokyo.

But for local people, the daily journey to work has become an unknown terror.
For 10 million residents of Tokyo and its suburbs there is no alternative. "The
roads are crowded and it would take me five hours if I had a car, the buses are
local, so I've bought a gas mask and I go by subway and try to hold my breath
until I am in the open air," said Kenjiro Miyajima, a government official.

Till the hijack, most Japanese thought they were free of Aum terrorism with the
arrest of the guru Shoko Asahara and most of his top lieutenants. Now they know
different.

Daily stories in the press alleging that Aum was responsible for other murders,
kidnappings and atrocities have already caused worry.

The police leak the details to favoured reporters of the "kisha clubs", the
packs of journalists who doorstep the leading ministries and agencies. The
significance of the Aum terror is the police failed to keep control of a small
group of extremists.

Police news leaks about an earlier sarin gas incident pointed suspicion at a man
who turned out to be innocent. More than a year later he is only just receiving
apologies.

Urban Tokyo is like a small village. At 10pm recently, someone in a flat above
mine gave an excited yell. Within five minutes three policemen were knocking on
all the doors to see if anything was wrong.

The recent terror shows such a system does not offer protection against
determined terrorists or oddballs, as the old social certainties break down.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             June 25, 1995, Sunday

POP GIRL IN KNIFE TERROR;
STALKER ATTACKS FORMER GIRLFRIEND OF EAST 17 STAR BRIAN HARVEY

BYLINE: Exclusive Matthew Bell And Chris House

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 347 words


EXCLUSIVE by MATTHEW BELL and CHRIS HOUSE

A FORMER girlfriend of East 17 star Brian Harvey has been attacked by a crazed
stalker. Natasha Goldman, 16, was alone in her parents' flat when the man
entered brandishing a knife.

She said: "My parents were out and I was talking to my boyfriend on the phone
when I saw this man standing in the doorway with a knife. I shouted at my
boyfriend that there was a man in the flat and ran towards the front door, but
he grabbed me around the neck and punched me in the face."

Natasha managed to break free and fled down the stairs. As her boyfriend arrived
at the block of flats in Wanstead, East London, he saw a knife being thrown from
the fourth-floor balcony.

He ran and told a nearby policeman, but when officers searched the flat the
intruder had fled. Natasha revealed the man had been plaguing her with obscene
phone calls and threatening to "get her" since she told a newspaper how she used
to date pop heart-throb Brian, 20 - and is still friends with him.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "We are treating the incident as a serious,
aggravated burglary."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACKED: Natasha, seen here with Brian

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 29, 1995

IRA TERRORIST CONVICTED OF BOMB ATTACK ON ARMY BARRACKS FREED BY GERMAN COURT;
Heroine's welcome for Donna Maguire on her arrival back in Dublin after her
release from six-year 'tour' of European prisons

BYLINE: Katerina Von Waldersee In Bonn And David Sharrock In Belfast

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1040 words


A SIX-YEAR tour by the 28-year-old Irish republican Donna Maguire of the prisons
of three European countries ended yesterday with a German court convicting her
but also granting her immediate freedom.

She arrived back in Dublin last night with her father, Malachy, to a heroine's
welcome by 50 supporters waving banners. Among them was a group from Saoirse,
the group demanding the release of republican prisoners.

Ms Maguire was sentenced to nine years for the bombing of a British barracks in
Germany in 1989. Her odyssey from Belgium to the Netherlands and finally Germany
on a string of charges relating to the IRA's continental campaign against the
British army had made her one of the republican movement's most notorious
members.

The regional court in Celle, north-east Germany, set her free despite her
conviction because she had already served six years in custody. The court will
make a formal decision next month on whether the remaining three years of the
sentence will be suspended.  A court spokesman said she would not have to appear
in person again.

The former convent girl from Newry, Co Down, left court without comment. She had
been charged with attempted murder, explosives offences, and spying on British
military installations in Germany.  Her lawyer, Barbara Klawitter, said she
planned to appeal.

The court ruled that Ms Maguire was a member of an IRA squad which tried to blow
up the Quebec barracks in the northern town of Osnabruck on June 19, 1989, by
planting a 330lb Semtex bomb next to a dormitory block.  Three other alleged IRA
members, Pauline O'Kane, aged 28, Donagh O'Kane, aged 34, and Patrick Murray,
aged 51, are also being tried in Celle on the same charges as Ms Maguire, but
their trial is separate. A verdict in their case is expected tomorrow.

Previous attempts in three countries to win a conviction against Ms Maguire
failed because of lack of evidence. Last year she was cleared of shooting a
British army officer at his home in Dortmund in 1990.

In July 1989 she was arrested at Rosslare, County Wicklow, and charged with
importing sodium chlorate, used in bomb-making.  At the subsequent trial she was
acquitted. A German extradition warrant relating to the Osnabruck bombing was
rejected by the Irish courts.

In June 1990, she was arrested again in a Belgian forest after police heard
shots, and was charged with membership of an illegal organisation and arms
possession. The case never came to court, but she was then extradited to the
Netherlands to face charges of murdering two Australian tourists, shot by an IRA
unit in Roermond by mistake. In March 1991 she was acquitted. Immediately
extradition proceedings were renewed and she was transferred to Germany.

Last June a Dusseldorf court acquitted her of bombing a British army base near
Hanover i6 May 1990, and of involvement in the murder of Major Michael
Dillon-Lee in Dortmund a month later.  Her co -defendants, Sean Hick and Paul
Hughes, were freed and are now both back in Ireland.

The court concluded that Ms Maguire was a member of an IRA group, but since
membership of the IRA is not an offence under German law, and there was no
evidence to connect her to the attacks, she was acquitted.

Her release yesterday appears to close a chapter in the IRA's suspended campaign
of violence, which saw 16 attempted bombings and shootings on the European
mainland between March 1987 and June 1990. Seven people were killed.

* The High Court in Dublin yesterday refused a request from the Royal Ulster
Constabulary for extradition of Angelo Fusco, 38, who was wanted to serve a life
sentence imposed in his absence for the murder of SAS Captain Herbert Westmacott
in Belfast in 1980.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 July 24, 1995

NINE DIE IN BUS BOMBING;
Tel Aviv attack by terror group

BYLINE: Colin Adamson,Theodore Levite

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 547 words


AT LEAST nine people were killed and 31 wounded today when a terrorist bomb
ripped a rush-hour bus apart in the suburbs of Tel Aviv.

All the indications were that the attack was carried out by a suicide bomber in
a continuing bloody campaign which had already claimed the lives of 50 Israeli
bus passengers in the past nine months.

National police chief Assaf Hafetz said the massive bomb appeared to have been
detonated by a terrorist standing in the middle of the bus.

Yheya Al Ayash, an extremists wing of the Arab fundamentalist group Hamas,
claimed responsibility for the explosion, which happened at 8.40am on a Dan
Company bus in the Ramat Gan suburb near Israel's diamond exchange occurred.
"There was a huge explosion...Hands flew in the air and heads flew from the
windows of the bus. It was unbearable," said a shocked Israeli woman witness.

A Reuters photographer said the bus windows were blown out and the right side of
the vehicle was ripped away.

The number of victims could have been much higher, had the bomber struck moments
earlier. Dozens of passengers had just disembarked at a shopping centre.

Within minutes of the blast, 11 ambulances arrived, removing casualties from the
charred wreck to two nearby hospitals.

The discovery by police of a second explosive charge immediately sparked fresh
panic, and the rescue area had to be cleared while a robot was brought in to
carry out a controlled explosion.

Today's attack was being regarded as another blatant bid by Arab fundamentalist
terrorists to wreck the Middle East peace process.

Tomorrow Israel and the PLO are due to complete negotiations on expanding
Palestinian autonomy in the West Bank, a process that has been delayed for a
year.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 27, 1995

FRANCE OFFERS 1M FRANC REWARD FOR BOMBER'S CAPTURE;
A manhunt is under way, with Algerian fundamentalists the presumed culprits of
the terror attack on Paris's underground

BYLINE: Paul Webster And Alex Duval Smith In Paris

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1014 words


FRANCE offered a reward of 1 million francs ( pounds 130,000) yesterday for
information leading to the capture of the perpetrators of the bomb attack in the
Paris underground railway on Tuesday which killed seven people.

The interior minister, Jean-Louis Debre, told French television he did not rule
out the possibility that the bomber was among the dead, since not all the
victims of the evening rush-hour blast in Saint -Michel station had been
identified.

Cabinet ministers were holding an emergency meeting overnight on strengthening
anti-terrorist measures after the deaths of three more people made the terrorist
attack the worst since Armenian extremists killed seven people in a bombing at
Orly airport 12 years ago.

A manhunt was under way in France and neighbouring states, with Algerian
extremists as the presumed culprits, though no claim of responsibility has yet
been received.

Some underground railway lines were closed by bomb scares yesterday evening,
affecting thousands of residents and tourists.  More than 80 people were hurt in
Tuesday's bombing, which occurred as a commuter train drew into the station near
Notre Dame cathedral at 5.30pm. Eleven are still in critical condition.

The international manhunt coincided with a huge police operation in which 1,800
extra men were being drafted into the capital to protect transport links and
shopping centres. Identity checks were already under way in buses and
underground trains, and the operators of the Eurotunnel rail link between France
and Britain said they were increasing security.

About 80 illegal immigrants were arrested in Paris, where police were patrolling
the poorer suburbs, searching cars and checking identity documents.

To the traders in boulevard Barbes in the heart of Paris's north African
community, it was a familiar experience. "The riot police are regular as
clockwork," said Nasser, a French-born Moroccan, aged 20, outside the jeans shop
where he works. "As soon as there's a whisper of trouble anywhere in France,
they descend on the 18th district."

In the busy boulevard, two police motorcyclists had just stopped a black Mini.
Further up the bus lane, five riot police were pulling over a clapped-out
Peugeot. Every 20 or so yards, the walkie-talkies of plain-clothes policemen
blared at high volume. At each junction stood a white riot police bus.

The shoppers who stopped to watch the show of strength were all white. Nasser,
for whom twice or thrice weekly identity controls have become routine, said:
"You just get used to being checked when others aren't."

In France, no one asks questions about identity checks. "After all," said
Nasser's workmate, Milou, "we're not at home here. I'm born in France and I have
French nationality, but this is not my home. We run their shops and pay their
taxes. But we also have homes in north Africa."

Around the corner in Rue Myrha, the "men in blue", or riot police, were less
conspicuous. It was at a mosque here that the vice-president of Algeria's
Islamic Salvation Front was shot dead a fortnight ago.

Mohammed, who works in a shop selling stereos and electrical goods, saw a
secondary reason for this week's police reinforcements. "In the few hours that
followed the explosion, they rounded up 80 illegal immigrants who are to be
expelled from France. It's a great opportunity for this government to get rid of
foreigners," he said.

Terror hunt focuses on Algerians, page 11

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           August 9, 1995, Wednesday

DOG TERROR OF WOMAN;
The pit bull terrier that attacked nurse Elaine Urquhart has been order ed to be
put down

SECTION: Page 7

LENGTH: 63 words


A pit bull terrier which savaged a woman was ordered to be destroyed yesterday.

Nurse Elaine Urquhart 33, needed plastic surgery after the dog tore into her
face, arm and leg yards from her home in Dundee.

Yesterday, at Dundee District Court, Justice Helen Wright ordered that the pit
bull terrier be seized and put down.

Elaine said: "This dog has ruined my life."


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 14, 1995

US airports on security alert for terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 206 words


New York

THREE airports went on high-security alert after receiving information from law
enforcement officers, officials said today.

The newspaper Newsday said the alert followed an FBI warning of a possible
attack by Islamic radicals, but the Port Authority, which manages New York
City's John F Kennedy and La Guardia airports and the Newark, New Jersey,
airport, would not confirm that.

"At some point on Saturday, there was communication between our agency and the
FAA, and a decision was made to elevate security at the airports," an authority
spokeswoman said. The FAA confirmed onlythat information from law enforcement
agencies prompted the alert.

Newsday said FBI anti-terrorist agents received detailed intelligence that the
Islamic resistance movement, Hamas, and Hezbollah were planning a possible
"suicide massacre".

The paper also said an attack would be in revenge for the US detention of a key
Hamas leader, Musa Abu Marzuk, pending an extradition request from Israel.
Hamas has warned President Bill Clinton of "negative and grave consequences" for
detaining Abu Marzuk.

Abu Marzuk's lawyer, Stanley Cohen, has denied any connection between his client
and possible Hamas attacks.--Reuter

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            August 18, 1995, Friday

SHARK BRIT'S TERROR;
JAMES OATLEY SURVIVES SHARK ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 200 words


BRITISH holidaymaker James Oatley, 20, told yesterday how he was attacked by a
hungry 6ft shark.

James was wading in the sea at Daytona Beach, Florida.

"I felt a tug, like a dog biting me. I looked down and saw a big shadow and
blood poured from my leg. I was scared stiff. I made a dash for it.

"The life guard raised the shark alert and I've never seen people move so fast."

James, from South Warnborough, Hants, was the ninth shark bite victim in the
area this summer.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BITTEN: Oatley

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           August 23, 1995, Wednesday

BLAZE ATTACK TERROR;
Families in Kirkcaldy tell how they fled for their lives after arson at tack

SECTION: Page 7

LENGTH: 112 words


Families yesterday told how they fled for their lives after an arson attack.

A dozen homes were evacuated as a blaze ripped through a climbing shop below
them in Kirkcaldy, Fife.

Firefighters led residents through smoke out into High Street.

Police are treating yesterday's 4am blaze as suspicious.

It is thought the shop was broken into before the blaze triggered a fire alarm.

James MacLean's wife Sharon, 23, was working in a baker's and phoned her husband
at their flat above the Mountain Lines shop.

James said: "I just grabbed our two-year-old, Sarah, and ran."

Wheelchair-bound Marion Henderson, 82, had to be helped downstairs by
firefighters


LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 2, 1995, Saturday

GIANT EEL NEARLY KILLED ME !;
Diver tells of terror at 60ft;
Cameron Bell attacked by conger eel while diving in Loch Long

BYLINE: Stephen Houston

SECTION: Page 4

LENGTH: 145 words


A diver who came back from the dead told yesterday of a terror attack by a giant
eel.

Cameron Bell was found lying by a road 10 hours after vanishing in the depths of
a sea loch.

And he revealed that a 6ft-long conger eel had lunged at him and entangled him
in a mass of fishing line.

He was then dragged at high speed while 60ft under water.

The diving instructor had gone hunting for the monster fish with three of his
students in a spot known as Eel Alley in Loch Long, near Arrochar.

He managed to cut the line with a knife and break free from the eel.

But he told police he could not remember getting to the surface.

An all-night air and sea search failed to find Cameron, of Moray Place,
Strathbungo, Glasgow.

He was found on Thursday beside a road, and rushed to a decompression chamber at
Faslane Navy base to recover from the bends.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 2, 1995, Saturday

TERROR ATTACK ON MUM;
Audrey Millar receives severe head injuries

SECTION: Page 5

LENGTH: 102 words


A young mum was rushed to hospital last night after being attacked in a tower
block.

Audrey Millar, 22, was found with severe head injuries at her eighth- floor flat
in Linksview House, Leith, Edinburgh.

Her three-year-old son Ryan is believed to have been with relatives when the
brutal attack happened.

Police examined her flat while detectivesquestioned neighbours.

Aclosefriendsaid Audrey had recently broken up with her husband John and renewed
a relationship with a former boyfriend.

The injuredwoman wastakento EdinburghRoyal Infirmary. The hospital was unable to
reveal her condition.


LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 3, 1995, Sunday

ESTATE FEUD MUM HELD;
WOMAN EVICTED FOR TERRORISING NEIGHBOURS IS ARRESTED FOR ATTACKING THEM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 133 words


A WOMAN evicted for terrorising her neighbours has now been charged with
attacking them - as they celebrated her exit.

Police arrested burly mother-of-five Geraldine Trinder 24 hours after violence
flared at Oxford's Rose Hill council estate.

Trinder, 31, was held as she visited Bullingdon Prison,where her boyfriend, 22,
is serving his 13th jail term.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                               September 4, 1995

The monster munch;
Terror as shark attacks boat's outboard motor

BYLINE: Richard Shears

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 360 words


IT was the moment financier Gordon Dunlop wished he'd never gone fishin'.

A massive shark clamped its jaws around the outboard motor of his small boat and
tried to rip it from its mounting.

The craft rocked wildly as the frenzied creature tore chunks from the engine and
then began to rear up, lunging at the stern as if trying to hurl itself aboard.

'I thought my number was up,' said 42-year-old Mr Dunlop, who was out with two
friends fishing for tuna off Sydney when they spotted the shark speeding towards
them. There was just time to photograph it before it struck.  Luckily Mr Dunlop
had the presence of mind to pick up a length of wood and hit the shark several
times on the head. Eventually it swam off.

Zoologist John West identified the shark as a deadly mako, able to leap out of
the water after its prey. He believed it was provoked into a feeding frenzy when
pilchards were thrown overboard to attract tuna.

But why bite the motor? 'It was probably influenced by electromagnetic fields.
Such fields resemble those produced by the heart muscles of potential prey. A
very high-level field can make them over-aggravated or frustrated enough with
hunger to bite at anything.'

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                          September 6, 1995, Wednesday

Chirac threatens to quit border pact after terror attacks

BYLINE: Susan Bell in Paris

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 419 words


PRESIDENT CHIRAC of France threatened yesterday to withdraw from the Schengen
agreement on abolishing border controls after the terrorist bombing campaign in
Paris.

Referring to the recent attacks, M Chirac said in a television interview: ''It
is absolutely clear that the fact that one can very easily cross the borders
without any inspection, in one direction or the other, facilitates things
immensely for the terrorists. As a result, I have asked the Government to take
very firm measures to strictly control all the borders of our country.''

He added: ''If the situation does not improve, and if our partners do not take
measures allowing them to properly control the outer borders of the Schengen
zone, then we would reconsider it.''

The challenge will deepen divisions among the seven continental states which are
committed to the complete abolition of border controls between them France,
Germany, Spain, Portugal, The Netherlands, Luxembourg and Belgium.  French
withdrawal would unravel the entire Schengen agreement.

Completion of a system for dealing with refugees and asylum seekers and for
exchanging criminal intelligence has been in limbo since June, when French
ministers stalled the process. At the time, France invoked an emergency clause
allowing it to keep controls for a further six months. Earlier this year M
Chirac complained about what he called Dutch unwillingness to control border
drug trafficking. France has also complained about Italy's ''inability to
reinforce border controls''.

France's tough stance towards Schengen reflects the Centre Right Government's
determination to crack down on crime and illegal immigration. It also shows that
the President is prepared to upset his European partners. The British
Government, which has not signed Schengen and which opposes EU plans for open
frontiers, will take heart from any loss of momentum caused by France.

In the interview, M Chirac said that France had let down its guard against
terrorists over the past ten years, and that it must be put up again quickly.
He confirmed that Islamic militants remained the most likely suspects for the
recent bomb attacks in the capital that have killed seven people and injured
more than 100. He emphasised, however, that investigators had no firm proof.

''We will never talk to terrorists,'' he said. ''We do not speak the same
language.''

Militants of Algeria's Armed Islamic Group, suspected of the bombings, are known
to have cells in Belgium and Germany.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 Times Newspapers Limited

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 12, 1995, Tuesday

ATTACK TERROR OF STAR ELAINE;
Scots actress Elaine C Smith has told for the first time of being violently
attacked on two different occasions

BYLINE: Exclusive Julia Clarke

SECTION: Page 1

LENGTH: 328 words


Scots actress Elaine C Smith has told for the first time of being violently
attacked on two different occasions.

And how she is still haunted by the terror memories, even though it's years
since the attacks took place.

Her revelations came as Elaine prepared for a shock new TV series in which she
lifts the lid on violence in the home and in the street.

In one attack, a pervert tried to strangle her and rip her blouse off.

In a second attack another sicko ripped off her skirt and assaulted her on a
busy street.

In an exclusive interview with the Record she said: "It really shook me for
ages.

"Believe me I was scared.

"Both attacks were when I was younger.

"The first was when I was living in Kirkcaldy and sharing a flat.

"I looked in the mirror and saw a young bloke.

"He lunged at me and grabbed me round the throat and started ripping my shirt
off me.

"He must have got in through the bathroom window and been waiting for me to come
in. He bent me right over the bath.

"I don't know how, but I found the strength to punch him."

Elaine says she's glad it didn't happen to a younger girl who might not have had
the strength.

She says: "I have often wondered if I was a rehearsal for another, worse
attack."

Elaine - who plays Rab C Nesbitt's wife Mary in the hit comedy - told of another
ordeal during a night out in Edinburgh.

A leering youth sprinted up to her and ripped off her skirt.

Elaine believes thousands of other Scots women have been put through the same
kind of ordeal.

The mum-of-two revealed she is also plagued with worries about the safety of her
kids Katie, seven, and one-year-old Hannah.

She said: "I sit and watch my seven-year-old daughter pedal her bike outside in
the street, worried there's another Robert Black out there."

Elaine's chat show, Living With Violence, part of Channel Four's Battered
Britain season, will go out every morning for a week on Monday, September 25.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 13, 1995, Wednesday

ARSON TERROR;
Jeanette Jones tells of terror arson attack on her home

SECTION: Page 11

LENGTH: 62 words


A mum yesterday told of a terror arson attack on her home.

Jeanette Jones, 35, and daughter Danielle, six, were trapped when the door to
her top-floor flat in Glasgow's Camlachie was doused with petrol and set alight.

She woke Danielle and held her up to the window so she could breathe until the
fire brigade arrived.

She said: "Thank God for the smoke alarm."


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 20, 1995, Wednesday

GIRL, 8, IN DOG ATTACK TERROR;
8 year old girl mauled by a dog

SECTION: Page 7

LENGTH: 68 words


Plastic surgeons were battling to save the looks of an eight year-old girl
yesterday after she was mauled by a dog.

She had more than 40 stitches inserted in multiple face wounds at St John's
Hospital, in Livingston West Lothian.

Last night, police said a 40-year old man had been charged in connection with
the incident in Ratho Station, near Edinburgh, and that a report had been sent
to the fiscal


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               September 25, 1995

London faces anti-Jewish terror attack, police told

BYLINE: Natalie Clarke And Joseph Finklestone

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 520 words


THE Home Office has warned police chiefs that Moslem fundamentalists are
planning a "terrorist spectacular" over the Jewish New Year, starting today.  In
a top secret document security chiefs have told police in London and elsewhere
the risk of a large-scale terrorist attack over the next two days is "high and
significant".

The memo, from the Home Office's Department F4 - an MI5 offshoot specialising in
non-Irish anti-terrorist information and operations - advises police to increase
security at synagogues and Jewish or Israeli buildings today and tomorrow.

The department is believed to have drawn its information from the security
services MI5 and MI6, who have picked up strong signals that an attack is being
mounted.

The Israeli intelligence service Mossad has also warned Whitehall that
fundamentalists backed by Iran are ready to target Jewish organisations in
Europe. Home Office officials have discussed the threats with the Jewish Board
of Deputies, representing Britain's Jewish community.

British authorities are now extremely sensitive to warnings from Israeli
agencies, following last year's attacks on London's Israeli embassy and a Jewish
charity in Finchley.

The F4 memo advises police to make arrangements for "security measures and
standards of vigilance to reflect this assessment".

The two organisations thought most capable of mounting an attack in London or in
another major British city are the purely military Popular Front for the
Liberation of Palestine and the Moslem religious fundamentalist Islamic Jihad,
backed by Iran.

Jewish leaders are so concerned that they have drafted in members of their own
volunteer force, the Communal Security Organisation, to guard synagogues.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 30, 1995, Saturday

THE KINKY CRUSADER;
Sex demand after terror knife attack;
Mike Anthony found guilty of a terror attack on his wife Moira

BYLINE: Stephen Rafferty

SECTION: Page 15

LENGTH: 239 words


A man who backed a moral crusade was yesterday found guilty of a terror attack
on his wife.

Mike Anthony, 42, was convicted of forcing his wife to strip at knifepoint and
demanding sex.

Business consultant Anthony, of Allanfield, Leith, denied the charge at
Edinburgh Sheriff Court.

He claimed Moira had attacked him with a knife, and he had acted in
self-defence.

The court heard he had entered her bedroom with a kitchen knife forced her to
strip and demanded sex.

She reluctantly agreed - but then fought back when Anthony produced a wire and
rope restraint.

She was cut on the thumb in the struggle.

Mrs Anthony frantically dialled 999 before fleeing from the house half-naked.

The trial heard recordings of phone calls Anthony had secretly taped at the
family home.

Depute procurator fiscal Neil Allen said the tape revealed Anthony had ordered a
duplicate key for his wife's car so he could snoop for confidential documents.

Anthony was also heard on the tape as he phoned his wife's employers and ask how
a pensions policy would be affected by a divorce.

Mr Allen said: "This was one of the depths to which you were prepared to stoop
in order to secure financial advantages in this divorce action." Sentence was
deferred until November 6, and Anthony was released on bail.

Anthony advised campaigner Debra Scanlan and gave her pounds 500 to aid her
fight to close Gemini Sauna in Leith.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            October 1, 1995, Sunday

Terror attacks

BYLINE: Compiled by Susan d'Arcy

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 112 words


India has stepped up security in Delhi and on its railways after a series of
bomb attacks. More than 50 people were injured in incidents in the capital and
at the railway station in nearby Panipat last week.

The Delhi blasts were close to the historic Red Fort and the Chandni Chowk
shopping centre, both popular with tourists. Responsibility has been claimed by
a Sikh militant group, the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), which has
threatened more attacks to counter what it describes as atrocities being
committed against Sikhs and Muslims by Indian security forces. A spokesperson
for Indian specialist Cox & Kings said: ''We are monitoring

the situation.''

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Directions; Travel

                    Copyright 1995 Times Newspapers Limited

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 2, 1995

DEAD SUSPECT IS LINKED TO MOST FRENCH TERROR ATTACKS;
Alex Duval Smith on the high-level clash over the men behind the violence

BYLINE: Alex Duval Smith

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1040 words


THE French interior minister, Jean-Louis Debre, was accused yesterday of
destabilising race relations after he claimed that the majority of the summer's
terrorist attacks in France were linked to a group of suburban delinquents from
Lyon.

Mr Debre made the claim, which conflicts strongly with investigators' views,
when he travelled to Lyon on Saturday to congratulate the security forces on
their successful "elimination" of Khaled Kelkal.

The 24-year-old suspect was shot dead on Friday night after paratroopers
allegedly returned fire at the end of a three-week manhunt.

Mr Debre said that although the terrorist threat remained, he was confident that
the "Kelkal cell" was linked to four of the seven terrorist attacks between July
and September. He had "a strong feeling" that Kelkal was linked to the bombing
at Saint-Michel underground station in Paris on July 25 which killed seven and
injured 82.

Yesterday, after police sources said their evidence did not support Mr Debre's
views, a leading mediator with the Muslim community said the interior minister's
statements were irresponsible.

Christian Delorme, a Roman Catholic priest engaged to create a dialogue with the
large Muslim community in Kelkal's home city, Lyon, said: "Three weeks ago, I
called on Kelkal to surrender, which might have saved his life. Now he will
become a martyr in the eyes of the dispossessed youths in French suburbs who are
tempted by the rebellion against France which Islamic fundamentalism offers."

Fr Delorme said Mr Debre's claims were irresponsible "because they add fuel to
the false view in France that Muslims are automatically attracted by
fundamentalism".

On Saturday night, seemingly in response to Kelkal's shooting, 23 cars where
burnt by rioting youths in Lyon's suburbs.

Until Mr Debre's claim on Saturday, Kelkal had officially been linked to only
one terrorist attack; his fingerprints were found on an unexploded device by the
Paris-Lyon high-speed train line on August 26.

But as leads in the investigation appear to have gone cold, the finger of blame
has increasingly been pointed at the man from the Lyon suburb of Vaulx-en-Velin.

Yesterday Le Monde spoke for the first time of a "Kelkal cell". Yet his previous
convictions were for ramraiding and his name did not appear among the 10,000
said to be listed by police as suspected Islamic fundamentalists.

Investigators agree with Mr Debre on one point: that one of two shotguns found
by Kelkal's sleeping bag in woods near Lyon was used in the murder in Paris on
July 11 of Abdelbaki Sahraoui, a moderate imam and co-founder of Algeria's
Islamic Salvation Front. But they dispute that Kelkal was the gunman.

The picture which has emerged of Kelkal is very much of a delinquent. He had
been to college but dropped out.

Born in Algeria and the oldest of seven children, Kelkal had lived in France
since the age of four weeks.

Last night the police expected to interview Karim Koussa, a friend of Kelkal who
is in hospital after being wounded in a gun battle on Wednesday. He is believed
to have been one of three people who brought food to Kelkal's hiding place in
the wood.

The other two, Abdelkader Maameri, aged 25, and Abelkader Bouhadjar, aged 28,
were formally placed under investigation yesterday for criminal conspiracy with
a terrorist activity and jailed, judicial sources told Reuter. They were caught
last week.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            October 6, 1995, Friday

HITMAN CLOWN BLASTS PATIENT;
GUN ATTACK TERROR NEAR KIDS' WARD;
HITMAN DRESSED AS CLOWN IN GUN ATTACK ON HOSPITAL PATIENT

BYLINE: Peter Kane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 654 words


A HITMAN dressed as a circus clown walked into a hospital ward yesterday and
blasted a patient with a sawn-off shotgun.

Wearing a clown's wig, red nose, false Dracula teeth and polkadot shellsuit, he
strolled in with the weapon hidden in a bunch of flowers and asked for 26
-year-old Matthew Evans by name.

Seconds later he pulled out the gun and fired at point-blank range at his chest.

But Mr Evans - recovering from plastic surgery after an acid attack - was hit in
the shoulder as he dived for cover.

Last night he was under armed police guard after emergency surgery - and finally
telling detectives everything they wanted to know about the acid attack in
August.

The hitman struck in visiting hours as Mr Evans lay in a specialist ward in St
Andrew's hospital, Billericay, Essex. A single blast sent him reeling to the
floor as doctors and nurses rushed to his aid near the children's ward.

Bang

A young mum visiting her one-year-old son on the children's ward said: "I heard
a bang and then someone ran past saying that a man had been shot.

"When I looked through the door I saw a man half lying on the floor.

"He had blood on his shoulder and nurses and doctors were running everywhere.
They were very shocked. One nurse was locking all the doors.

"When a child asked what had happened he was simply told there had been a little
accident."

Shocked Mr Evans was said to be "comfortable and stable" last night.

Police said that after the acid attack he repeatedly refused to co-operate with
detectives - but was now giving them as much information as he could.

He had been snatched from a phone box near his home in Thurrock, Essex, by two
men in a car and had acid thrown in his face before being dumped in nearby
Dagenham.

Police said: "We are investigating the possibility that both attacks are
connected with serious criminal activities.

"We are anxious to hear from anyone who saw either attack."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR: How the hitman confronted his victim. Picture CHRIS GRIEVE

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            November 3, 1995, Friday

UPDATE BITES;
Terrorist plan foiled;
Bomb attack on Lille foiled

SECTION: Page 2

LENGTH: 34 words


The arrest of 10 terrorist suspects foiled a planned bomb attack on a busy in a
market place in France, it was revealed yesterday. Islamic militants had
intended to strike in the northern city of Lille


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           November 7, 1995, Tuesday

MORAL CRUSADER JAILED FOR ARMED SEX ATTACK;
VICTIM IN KNIFE TERROR;
ANTI -BROTHEL CAMPAIGNER JAILED FOR KNIFE SEX ATTACK

BYLINE: Jonathan Russell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 427 words


A MAN who claimed moral outrage and demanded the closure of a sauna parlour was
jailed yesterday for a knifepoint sex attack.

Michael Anthony, 42, told his victim he was going to make love to her and forced
her to take off her pyjamas.

Her ordeal ended only when her terrified daughter fled and Anthony gave chase,
enabling her to call the police.

Anthony, who denied assaulting the woman and threatening to kill her, had
earlier backed a campaign to close an Edinburgh sauna he believed was being used
as a brothel.

But yesterday the moral crusader was branded a devious and manipulative liar at
Edinburgh Sheriff Court and sent to prison for three months.

His 43-year-old victim said that after a struggle she agreed to take off her
pyjamas if Anthony got rid of the knife.

Panic

But when he returned minutes later he was still carrying it and had what looked
like a rope or piece of wire.

"I went into a panic," said the woman. "I assumed he was going to tie me up."

Anthony claimed the woman pulled the kitchen knife from under her pillow as he
sat on her bed and kissed her.

He said the woman had set him up because of his campaign to close the sauna.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANTHONY: Three months

                            Copyright 1995 MGN Ltd.

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           December 11, 1995, Monday

FACING TERROR IN THE CLASS;
Attacks on teachers rising

SECTION: Page 5

LENGTH: 354 words


Up to 200 teachers are attacked or abused in Scottish schools every week.

And unions fear the number verbally or physically assaulted by pupils or parents
could grow.

After a string of attacks, they want more protection for staff - including a
register of incidents where pupils have assaulted teachers.

And they warn that security guards could patrol the playgrounds of the future.

Earlier this year two teachers were hurt breaking up a brawl between two girls
of 16 at Govan High, in Glasgow.

At Bearsden Academy, just outside the city, a teacher was hit by a pupil.

Two boys who attacked teachers at Gracemount High, in Edinburgh, after being
expelled were banned by a court from returning to the school.

At Bellshill Academy, in Lanarkshire, teacher George Jamieson suffered a
fractured skull when two thugs hit him with a metal bar.

And staff at Stranraer Academy are threatening to strike unless education chiefs
crack down on violent pupils.

NASUWT official Tino Ferri said 200 verbal and physical attacks per week was
their estimate.

He said: "Pupils have to know that, if they duff up a teacher, it is not just
going to mean a suspension.

"More teachers are doing what they should have done years ago and reporting it
to the police.

"The health, welfare and safety of teachers is a local authority responsibility.
If they are dragging their feet, we will intervene forcibly."

Strathclyde Region has already made a bid to clamp down on vandalism and
violence.

Ayrshire's Ardrossan Academy has a controlled entry system and Lanarkshire's
Uddingston Grammar has closed-circuit TV in its playground.

Spy cameras and perimeter fencing are in place at Drumchapel High and
Garthamlock Primary, both in Glasgow.

Strathclyde chiefs say security guards would turn schools into fortresses. But
they plan to introduce a register of attacks in the new year.

Tayside is the only Scots region to record every single attack on teachers.
Last year 21 primary and eight secondary teachers were assaulted.

Grampian councillors will meet this week to discuss school security.


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           December 11, 1995, Monday

GIRL'S TAXI RIDE OF TERROR;
Bogus taxi driver attacks woman in Ayr

SECTION: Page 9

LENGTH: 85 words


A young woman suffered a terrifying ordeal yesterday after taking a ride in what
she thought was a taxi.

She was attacked by the driver of a car she got into in Ayr at 3am. He dragged
her into bushes after she jumped out of the vehicle in terror, but she managed
to escape and raise the alarm at a nearby house.

The 18-year-old girl was severely shocked, but otherwise unhurt.

Police warned women not to hail taxis from the street, and to note down the
number of any cab they get into on their own.


LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1995 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 15, 1995, Friday

Alienated youth still harbours deep grudges; Aftermath of the riot: Condon
blames trouble on small minority of thugs as police motorcyclist recalls terror
of mob attack

BYLINE: JASON BENNETTO/PETER VICTOR

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page  2

LENGTH: 633 words


The gaping rift between the police and sections of the black community was fully
exposed yesterday in the aftermath of the Brixton riots.

Sir Paul Condon, Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, admitted that the
street battles were a "setback" for police relations with the local community
but insisted: "It wasn't Brixton that rioted, it was a small minority of thugs
and criminals who as ever look for an opportunity to embark on criminal
exercises."

Sir Paul said huge strides had been made since the 1981 Brixton riots in
policing style, partnership, and co-operation with communities but he stressed:
"We are not prepared to allow inner-city tension to be used to create no-go
areas."

Nicholas Long, chairman of the Community Police Consultative Committee in the
area, said: "I saw everything on the street between 6.30pm and almost 10pm, and
I saw nothing which would cause me to doubt police action.

"They showed considerable restraint. I don't think you can make any comparison
between 1981, 1985 or 1995. We are looking at a completely different set of
circumstances, which relate to two unfortunate deaths in custody."

Sir Paul's belief that the rioting was confined to a small minority - no more
than about 100 people - was supported by a number of black community leaders who
have distanced themselves from the rioting.

There remains, however, a significant section of the community that genuinely
believes it is being victimised by the police and that a series of deaths of
black men in custody of has gone unpunished.

For the youth on the streets of Brixton in the aftermath of Wednesday ugly
scenes of looting and violence, there was little doubt where the blame lay: the
combustible mix had been simmering for years. The death of Wayne Douglas, 10
days ago, was the spark, heavy-handed riot policing had been the
"turbo-charger", they said.

"Every black man around here thinks what happened to Wayne Douglas could have
happened to him," said one youth. "Ever since PC Dunne a community policeman
shot dead in nearby Clapham , they have been taking their revenge on us. It was
just a matter of time before this happened."

Many expressed regret for the damage done to shops in the area and Brixton's
attempts to rehabilitate itself. "But if the police had just let people have a
march when they wanted, if they didn't try to use heavy tactics, none of this
would have happened," said another.

Michael Gordon, 37, co-ordinator of the 409 youth and community project in
Brixton, said: "There is a sense of sadness that commercial shops and small
businesses have been hit. We have made good strides in attracting big businesses
like the Body Shop to this area.

"But I think there was a very real sense that what happened had been coming for
a long time. I don't think the relationship between the youth in this area and
the police has been damaged because I don't think there was a relationship."

Hubert James, director of Brixton community law centre, said: "The council has
closed many of the resources for youth around here.

"The youth clubs are disappearing and often those facilities that are left
aren't available to the black youths because they can't afford them.  All
they've got left to do is stand around on street corners."

As a result they came into conflict frequently with police. "I don't believe
people should burn down businesses, but there is a lot of anger around here."

The Metropolitan's Police's recent Operation Eagle Eye street crime initiative
helped fuel resentment after Sir Paul said that most muggers were black.
Assistant Commissioner Paul Manning, who commands the south- west division which
includes Brixton, said police would "redouble" their efforts to build trust with
the community.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Independent Print Ltd

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               December 22, 1995

Peace process falters as Hamas refuses to halt terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Joseph Finklestone

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 165 words



DESPITE the celebrations in Bethlehem a large dark cloud is looming over the
peace process.

Hamas, the Moslem militant group opposed to peace agreement with Israel, decided
in Cairo last night not to halt their terrorist attacks on Israelis.

They also rejected an invitation from PLO leader Yasser Arafat to take part in
the first Palestinian elections on the West Bank next month.

These decisions were taken after intense negotiations with a PLO team in Cairo.
Mr Arafat wanted to obtain a pledge from the Hamas not to carry out terrorist
attacks on Israelis from Palestinian cities controlled by his authority.

Mr Arafat warned Hamas that if they continued the attacks they would give
Israelis an excuse to pull out of the peace process. Attacks would therefore not
be in the interests of the Palestinian people. Hamas, however, stuck stubbornly
to their stand, arguing no peace agreement could be made with Israel until the
country gave up all Arab land.


LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            January 5, 1996, Friday

I WAS VICTIM OF DEVIL DOG!;
Jacqueline's terror attack by pal's pet;
Scots schoolkid Jacqueline Rae has become another victim of a devil dog

SECTION: Page 20

LENGTH: 363 words


Another Scots schoolkid has become a victim of a devil dog.

Jacqueline Rae, 15, was playing in her pal's house when the rottweiler burst
into a bedroom and pounced on her.

Her leg was shredded as the dog dragged her across the floor in a fearsome
attack which left her with FIVE huge bites.

She needed 25 stitches and a skin graft to cover a gaping wound in her calf.

Parts of her leg were left on the carpet.

The attack, just before two rottweilers tore into 11-year-old David Kearney who
died on Wednesday, left Jacqueline in hospital for two weeks.

And last night the teenager - who now needs crutches - gave her backing to the
Record's campaign for a clampdown on rottweilers.

Jacqueline has been left haunted by nightmares.

The youngster, from Moodiesburn, Lanark-shire, said: "I'd been having a pretend
fight with my pal, Melissa, on her bed when Tyson burst in.

"He sunk his teeth into my calf and dragged me off the bed.

"I was hanging onto the sheets to try and get away but he kept biting me harder
to get a better grip.

"He was pulling me across the bedroom shaking his head.

"Eventually my friend managed to get him off and I went into shock when I saw my
leg.

"My jeans were ripped to shreds and there were bits of flesh all over the
carpet."

The six-year-old dog was destroyed two days later.

But Jacqueline is still recovering mentally and physically.

She is still not fit enough go back to school.

"Now, when I see a big dog, I just freeze," she Jacqueline.

"I knew this dog and he did this to me.

"It just shows the breed should be wiped out."

Tyson's owner, mum-of-two Sandra Martin, told how she took the decision to put
Tyson down.

She said: "As soon as I saw Jacqueline's leg I realised I couldn't keep him.

"I had to be cruel to be kind.

"He was just a big softy and all the kids in the street loved him."

She says the pet changed after living for 18 months with an ex partner.

"My ex was violent and he always used to lock the dog away.

"When I got him back he couldn't have been the same dog inside."

She added: "It broke my heart but I know it was the right thing to do."


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 24, 1996

TRAIL OF TERROR RAISES QUESTIONS;
Rightwing attacks rarely make the headlines. There is self-congratulation that
the racist epidemic is down

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1360 words


THE Lubeck police and public prosecution authorities yesterday clamped a news
blackout on their inquiries into precisely what happened in the pre-dawn hours
of last Thursday, when a fire tore through an isolated hostel for would-be
immigrants. Ten foreigners, including four children, died.

The Lubeck fire received extensive coverage in domestic and international media.
This coverage has caused anger and embarrassment in Germany - one reason perhaps
why police and prosecutors are saying nothing now.

But last Friday and during the weekend, they were considerably more talkative.
They let it be known that three German males, one a skinhead, were detained
within minutes of the fire breaking out at 3.40am within yards of the dockside
hostel.

Michael Bockenhauer of the prosecutor's office went further. The trio were not
only being questioned. There were serious grounds for suspicion against them and
they had police records. The police and prosecutors left little doubt that they
were investigating an arson attack, saying that the fire started at various
points simultaneously.

They have since retreated on these statements, released the suspects who had an
alibi - as had a fourth German detained - and have arrested a Lebanese resident
of the hostel who vehemently denies any involvement.

The police say the Lebanese man, aged 21, admitted his guilt on Friday evening,
some 40 hours after the fire started. He denies that. But it was another two
days before the Lebanese was arrested. It is not clear what caused the delay.

Whatever the true cause of the Lubeck fire, the widespread, initial media
presumption - based on information released by officials - that neo-Nazis were
to blame has riled some Germans.

In an editorial published in Germany's leading daily Frankfurter Allgemeine (and
reprinted on this page), Johann Georg Reissmueller lashed out at the rest of the
world for a perceived anti-German bias which allegedly gleefully seizes on
tragedies like Lubeck to badmouth the Germans.

Is this true? And if so, why?

In 1994, the last full year for which official figures are available, there were
more than four acts of violence committed every day by neo-Nazis and the extreme
right - 41 anti-Semitic acts, 493 attacks on minority groups, and 860 assaults
on foreigners.

More than 30 foreigners have been killed in Germany in extremist attacks since
1990's year of unification.

These attacks - 1,489 in 1994 - rarely make the headlines these days, though
there is a mood of self-congratulation that the racist epidemic is down from
2,232 assaults in 1993.

After the Solingen outrage on May 29, 1993, when two Turkish women and three
children were killed in an arson attack, Chancellor Helmut Kohl responded to
calls for him to attend their funeral with a blithe dismissal of "condolence
tourism".

His preferred response to the wave of violent xenophobia that accompanied the
years after unification was to tighten the asylum laws and keep foreigners out.

With 7 million foreigners and hundreds of thousands of refugees and asylum
-seekers, Germany still far outranks its European partners in accommodating
outsiders, a phenomenon borne of its geographical position in the centre of
Europe, its guilt over its past, and its policies of bringing in southern
Europeans and Turks in the boom years of the 1950s and 1960s to help rebuild the
country.

But even if you are a second-generation Turk born and bred here, you have no
citizenship, passport, or voting rights. By contrast, you might be from Saratov
in the middle of Russia and barely know where Germany is, but if you can show
you stem from ethnic Germans settled there 300 years ago you automatically
qualify for German citizenship - on the basis of blood-and-soil nationalist
legislation from 1913.

The day after the Lubeck tragedy, President Roman Herzog addressed the Bonn
parliament to commemorate the Holocaust. This year, for the first time since the
war, the authorities have decreed an official day of commemoration. The
ceremonies were staged last Friday although officially the decreed day is
January 27, the day in 1945 that the Red Army liberated the Auschwitz death camp
now in southern Poland.

The same day, last Friday, as the prosecutors were admitting they were wrong to
suspect the three to four Germans detained after the fire, at the other end of
the country in Stuttgart a 26-year-old German man was charged with the murder of
three Croats, a Greek woman and her two-year-old daughter, and a Turkish woman
and her four-year-old daughter in another arson attack.

It had taken almost two years to bring the charges.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 25, 1996

US troops in Bosnia put on alert for terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 404 words


US peacekeeping forces in Bosnia are on high alert for fear of terrorist attack,
Defence Secretary William Perry said.

"We have had no reports of any terrorists or extremists actually trying to get
into US facilities," he told reporters in Washington, but US intelligence
reports indicated increased activity from Islamic volunteers in Bosnia.

The alarm became public as Bosnian Serb "prime minister" Rajko Kasagic arrived
in Sarajevo for the highest-level direct negotiations with the Moslem-led
government since the Bosnia war began in 1992.

Perry also cited a report that an American, identified as Kevin Holt, or Cleven
Holt, of Washington, who had had contacts with extremist Moslem groups in the
past, might be in Bosnia.

The Clinton administration is deeply sensitive to the negative impact any
serious US casualties would have on domestic public opinion and American
involvement in Bosnia.

Mindful also of past suicide attacks on US forces, particularly in Lebanon, it
has taken care to keep any potential "extremists"away from its soldiers in
Bosnia.

The US is especially concerned about the Mujahideen - devout Islamic volunteers
- who joined the mainly-Moslem government's forces to fight the Serbs, and
insists they be sent home.

Perry reiterated that the US would not proceed with a plan to arm and train
Bosnian government forces until all such Mujahideen had left the country. A Nato
spokesman in Sarajevo said 68 Islamic volunteers were still in Kopravina camp,
near Zenica in central Bosnia.

Kasagic told the Bosnian Serb news agency SRNA he was seeking the international
community's final response to the question of what to do with the Serb part of
Sarajevo.

The Serbs have been resisting the reunification of the city as laid down by the
Bosnia peace agreement, threatening to leave en masse rather than submit to
Bosnian government rule.

q.Two Portuguese soldiers and one Italian were killed in an accidental explosion
in Sarajev, the first deaths among Nato troops in Bosnia since they deployed
last month to enforce the Dayton peace agreement.

Six Italians and one Portuguese were wounded in the blast which was caused by
"some form of unexploded ordnance", Lieutenant-Colonel Iacono Salvatore said.

The blast occurred in a former maternity hospital used by the logistics
batallion of the Italian brigade near Sarajevo's Zetra stadium. - Reuter

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 3, 1996, Saturday

Attack on RUC man 'linked to terrorist's funeral'

BYLINE: PETER VICTOR and ALAN MURDOCH

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 326 words


PETER VICTOR and

ALAN MURDOCH

The Royal Ulster Constabulary is investigating a gun attack on the home of an
off-duty police officer in Northern Ireland.

The Northern Ireland Office said it was unaware of any motive for the shooting
near the village of Moy, Co Tyrone. The weapon used has been identified as an
AK47 assault rifle.

The part-time RUC reservist and his wife, who were in bed at the time, escaped
unhurt as armour piercing bullets ripped through walls and windows.  No
organisation claimed responsibility for the shooting. The RUC said 57 shots were
fired, but refused to comment on who was thought responsible.

The shooting is thought to be linked to the funeral of Irish National Liberation
Army chief Gino Gallagher, 32, delayed by violent clashes between mourners and
police on Thursday. The funeral went ahead yesterday in Belfast after police and
organisers agreed a peace deal.

Meanwhile, a new setback loomed in the peace process last night with parties in
the Dublin Forum for Peace and Reconciliation unable to agree on a key formula
of consent and self-determination which it was hoped might underpin a future
political settlement.

Sinn Fein was unable to agree to critical parts of the Forum's report "Paths to
a Political Settlement in Ireland", despite deliberations since last May.

Consent is critical to the search for a lasting peace, as there is little hope
of securing future Unionist co-operation unless nationalist parties commit
themselves to accepting the democratic will of a majority within Northern
Ireland.

The Forum report, released last night, says new political arrangements "will
have to be ratified by the people of Ireland, North and South".

Dublin government sources said there was no scope for further compromise to
secure Sinn Fein backing: "There comes a point where if you water it down any
more it's simply not worth it. There is nothing left to discuss."


LOAD-DATE: February 05, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 15, 1996

BLAST-PROOF BROADCASTING;
Nicholas Bannister on how a cable company survived a terrorist attack and stayed
on air

BYLINE: Nicholas Bannister

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN ONLINE PAGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1054 words


When the IRA bomb exploded in Docklands last Friday, it caused carnage.
Buildings were literally stripped of their windows, the Docklands light railway
stopped in its tracks and showered hundreds of passers-by with glass and rubble.
But, just 20 yards from the heart of the explosion, millions of pounds' worth of
sensitive computer and broadcasting equipment remained virtually unscathed.

Bell Cablemedia's office, controlling cable and telephone services for about
20,000 people, took the brunt of the explosion.  But its sophisticated
broadcasting and telephone equipment was protected by a blast wall, installed
two years ago at a cost of almost pounds 1m.

Although two dish aerials outside the building in Millharbour Road were damaged,
only two of the company's 52 channels went off the air. Within 24 hours the lost
channels were restored by feeding in signals from elsewhere in the network.

Immediately after the explosion, a carefully rehearsed damage disaster recovery
plan went into operation. Operational control was taken over by a small team
initially at another Bell Cablemedia building in the Docklands area and later at
a special disaster control centre about 10 miles away in Waltham Forest.

Peter Lyne, the group's managing director, said that they were able to establish
by remote monitoring that two cable channels had gone off air while the picture
quality of some of the rest had deteriorated as a result of damage to the three
external satellite dishes which picked up their signals. Telecom links to two
business customers were also affected.

All 999 call traffic, which went through another building hit by the blast, was
re-routed through other exchanges on the network. Recorded messages telling both
cable and telephone customers what had happened were set up while the 200-strong
customer service staff moved to the Waltham Forest site over the weekend.

Mr Lyne said: 'We negotiated limited access to the Millharbour site at 11am on
Saturday on the grounds that we were a telecom company and had a 999 operation
which had to be maintained.' The company then brought in a spare satellite dish,
and weather-proofed the equipment on the site.

He said the building around the reinforced room had been declared structurally
unsafe, but it was too early to say if the external walls could be rebuilt
without having to move the equipment. 'Whatever we do, we will maintain our
service,' he added.

Bell Cablemedia executives decided two years ago that it could lose millions of
pounds a day if the equipment at the head of its cable networks, known as the
head-end, was damaged. So the group took measures to protect itself from
terrorist attack and other potential disasters such as flooding.

A cable company's head-end essentially plucks TV signals out of the sky using
satellite dishes and feeds them into the underground cable network to homes.
Pre-recorded programmes and advertisements are also fed into the network using
sophisticated video players.

Other key equipment controls the timing, and monitors signal strength. The head
-end also houses a telephone exchange to handle calls to and from the national
networks of companies such as British Telecom, Mercury and Energis, and directs
calls between subscribers on the same local network.

Mr Lyne said that Bell Cablemedia's business would have been irreparably damaged
had its Docklands head-end been destroyed.  'A cable and telephone company does
not exist without a service,' he said.

But financial benefits aside, the company's security concerns saved its staff.
'We had four guys working in the Millharbour building at the time the bomb went
off,' Mr Lyne said. 'They only received minor injuries. One would undoubtedly
been killed but for the blast-proof windows.'

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                           February 18, 1996, Sunday

IF YOU LIVE OVER A SHOP AND YOUR HOME IS THE VICTIM OF A TERRORIST ATTACK, YOU
MAY NOT BE FULLY INSURED

BYLINE: Neasa Macerlean

SECTION: THE OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 294 words


FLAT-OWNERS who live above shops or in large, expensive blocks may need extra
insurance against terrorist activity.

Almost all homeowners are covered by standard domestic buildings and contents
policies against the kind of attack on the Isle of Dogs. But some, including
many who live in flats above shops, will find their policies are commercial
rather than personal. These provide only pounds 100,000 of cover against
terrorist acts: so if the property is worth more the owners may need extra
cover. Someone living in a pounds 50,000 flat above a shop in North London would
typically pay pounds 72 a year.

This does not apply to all flats above shops. If more than 80 per cent of the
property is residential rather than business, the flats should qualify for a
policy developed for blocks of flats.

The insurance industry has designed several of these which give pounds 2.5
million of buildings cover. But sometimes more than one building is covered by a
single policy and some blocks are worth more than pounds 2.5m.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           February 18, 1996, Sunday

RING OF TERROR;
Mystery of attacks on boxing bosses;
Mystery attacks on Scottish boxing bosses

BYLINE: Norman Silvester

SECTION: Page 10

LENGTH: 874 words


Scottish boxing was shamed the night James Murray died in the ring as drunken
fans rampaged in an orgy of violence.

The images of that night shocked the world.

But the Mail can reveal that behind the scenes of the big-money fight game lurks
an even more sinister shadow...

The threat of a major war against the country's boxing supremos.

Detectives are investigating a series of attacks and threats to leading figures
in Scottish boxing.

We can also reveal for the first time that:

A GUNMAN opened fire on top manager Alex Morrison as he stood outside his
haulage business.

TWO MEN attacked Scotland's most senior boxing official, Gerry Woolard, outside
his home.

ANOTHER leading Scottish boxing promoter, Tommy Gilmour, has also been the
victim of several mystery car fires and veiled threats.

Morrison was attacked late last month in Glasgow's East End.

A car drew up and a gunman fired from the passenger seat.

The shot missed, damaging a parked lorry.

There was no official report of the shooting at the time, but it is understood
the matter is now in police hands.

It is not known if the gunman intended the shot as a frightener or to kill
Morrison.

When contacted by the Mail, Morrison declined to comment.

A few days before the incident, a mystery man called on Tommy Gilmour, who has
offices in Glasgow's Forte Crest Hotel. He was out, but the visitor told his
secretary he had information about a man who had been making threats against his
life.

Before he left he told the secretary he'd call again, using a secret Masonic
password, the Widow's Son.

But he NEVER called back.

Gilmour alerted local police who are now examining a security video taken at the
hotel at the time of the visit.

Last year Gerry Woolard, who is the Scots representative of the British Board of
Boxing Control, was beaten up outside his home in Glasgow's posh Beaconsfield
Road.

No attempt was made to rob him, and nothing was stolen.

The assault happened as the accountant arrived home by car at 6pm.

Two men were waiting outside the house and pounced as he got out the car.

Woolard was due to attend a meeting of the British Boxing Board of Control later
that week on a disciplinary matter.

Detectives believe the attack may have been an attempt to stop him going.

The thugs were never traced.

Woolard, 59, a former boxer, was badly shaken and bruised.

He told the Mail that, because of the beating, he couldn't attend the meeting.

"I reported the incident to the police but I don't know who attacked me or why,"
he said. An investigation was underway, said Detective Chief Inspector James
Lindsay, head of the Strathclyde Major Crime Resource Unit.

"Statements have been taken from all those involved," he added.

Detective Inspector William Prendergast has been assigned to examine the various
incidents over the last 18 months.

A separate inquiry is being carried out into the Forte Crest Hotel incident.

In 1994, Tommy Gilmour's pounds 50,000 Mercedes was torched outside his training
gym in Glasgow's East End.

Last year a replacement BMW was wrecked by fire while it was parked in
Mussel-burgh, near Edinburgh, during a fight.

Manager Morrison, a former pro boxer, is one the most colourful characters in
the ring.

He was also a friend of the late Glasgow godfather Arthur Thompson.

Morrison co-managed James Murray who died last October in controversial
circumstances during a bout against Drew Docherty at the Hospitality Inn.

Millionaire Gilmour lives with his wife in a luxury home in Newton Mearns and
has managed a number of top boxers, including Docherty, Paul Weir and Pat
Clinton.

He also runs the world-famous St Andrew's Sporting Club, which is based at the
Forte Crest .

Gilmour confirmed there had been a number of incidents, but he declined to go
into detail about any of them.

He told us that everything had been reported to the police.

Detectives believe the attacks and threats may be linked to Glasgow's growing
prominence on the world boxing stage.

The city has hosted numerous world title bouts in the last two years.

The Marquis of Queensberry rules call for a good, clean fight.

NOW SOMEONE HAS TORN UP THE RULES AND IS FIGHTING DIRTY.

Alex Morrison's attractive daughter Katherine is Britain's only woman boxing
promoter.

She left school at 16 and spent two years as a hotel receptionist, before
joining her father's haulage firm.

She drifted into boxing, and by 21 had three years of promotional experience and
financial dealings under her belt. Katherine, now 27, applied to the Scottish
area council of the Board of Control in 1990 for a promoter's licence, but was
turned down THREE TIMES.

Three years ago she went over their heads, applied to the British Board of
Boxing Control in London, and was successful.

She now has all responsibility for boxing promotions in the family after her
father was banned for life in 1992.

He lost his promoter's licence when he was declared bankrupt.

Morrison was told by the BBBC that he wouldn't regain it until he cleared up his
financial problems.

But he takes responsibility for managing the family's stable of 15 top boxers.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           February 19, 1996, Monday

IRA BUS BOMB HORROR; 10.38PM TERROR ATTACK NUMBER 3;
'3 DEAD' AND NO WARNING BLOODY CARNAGE; PEOPLE WERE LYING INJURED EVERYWHERE
..ONE MAN SCREAMED 'MY LEGS, MY LEGS';
IRA BLOW UP BUS IN CENTRAL LONDON

BYLINE: Don Mackay And Tracey Harrison

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2427 words


THE IRA struck without warning last night, blasting apart a double-deck tourist
bus in the centre of London.

Three people were feared dead and many others injured as the provos sunk to a
new low.

The bomb - timed to explode as thousands left pubs and theatres around Covent
Garden - wrecked the bus.

It was the third bomb to hit the capital in nine days after the terrorists ended
their ceasefire.

Witness Anthony Yates, 26, said: "I saw a big white flash in the sky.

"There was nothing left of the bus - it was blown to pieces. There were at least
three people dead.

"When the bomb went off a taxi drove into the bus. The bus driver and the taxi
driver both looked dead. There's a guy lying

outside the bus saying 'My legs. my legs'. There's glass everywhere.  It's a
complete mess."

Scotland Yard received no warning calls before the explosion at 10.38pm.

A wide area of central London was evacuated amid fears of a second device
nearby.

The bomb went off in Wellington Street, near the Strand, nine days after the IRA
killed two men in London's Docklands.

Blast

The blast could be heard for miles around.

The bomb - the third in nine days - went off as hundreds of theatregoers poured
on to the streets.

Market trader Robert Tavener, 34, from Chiswick, west London, had been enjoying
a Sunday night drink in the Lyceum pub close to the explosion.

He said: "There was an enormous bang and all the pub windows shook.

"It was obvious what it was and people looked horror-stricken at each other.
Like many others I ran out and it was absolute chaos.

"I could see what looked like a regular double decker bus with the top almost
blown away.

"There seemed to be people lying injured and others were running around
screaming and shouting.

"All the emergency services arrived quickly and we were cleared away.

"Obviously this is the sort of thing you dread. This is such a busy area, and
the terrorists really picked their target."

Several casualties were reported.

A police spokesman said: "We have been told there are a number of injured.

"We are told it was on a double decker. That's all we know."

One theory was that the bomb went off as it was being transported elsewhere by
one of the five or six active service units known to be on the mainland.

Josie Philpott, a 31-year-old secretary from Tower Hamlets, East London, said
panic reigned amid fears of a second device.

"We were all standing round not knowing what to do," she said.

"Then someone shouted: 'There's another bomb, there's another bomb.'

"I felt sick and just started running.

"Then the police began cordoning the area off.

"This is just awful. I've never been so frightened in my life."

As one policeman tried desperately to clear the street of pedestrians he said:
"You don't want to go up there - it's bloody carnage."

Tourists and couples leaving restaurants fled the scene in terror.

Horrible

Anja Kerbaj, 25, a cashier in Simpsons restaurant, just yards from the blast,
said: "I've never been so terrified in my life.

"There was a tremendous bang. The impact threw everyone to the floor and glasses
and plates smashed everywhere. We knew something horrible had happened.

"We looked out and this bus had just stopped. There seemed to be dust and smoke
coming from it."

Restaurant trainee manager, Mark Bell, 20, said: "We heard there had been quite
a few casualties but the amazing thing was how calm everything was seconds after
the blast. It was almost surreal."

American tourist Andy Desalvo said: "We've been here five days and we daren't go
anywhere. This isn't good for London."

Pedestrian Simon Walker, 19, said: "God knows what happened, but the explosion
was unbelievable. I just ran and ran. I didn't want to stick around." The blast
happened in the shadow of the Strand Palace Hotel - just down the road from
Trafalgar Square.

Eyewitnesses saw one woman lying in a pool of blood near the wrecked bus.

Blood

Civil engineer Steve Potts said: "She seemed to be in a very bad way.

"There was lots of blood pouring from her head, and I don't think she was
moving.

"Police surrounded her very quickly before we were ushered off. One or two
others walking round looking very dazed and shocked.

"The front of the bus looked as if it had been completely ripped off."

Mr Potts, from Ladbroke Grove, West London, added: "It looked as if the bus had
been empty and was perhaps just parked there.

"Someone said it was a tourist bus.

"Bits of metal were scattered all over the place and I think some shop windows
had been blown out. There were shards of glass everywhere. There was also a
horrible stench in the air."

A fleet of fire engines and ambulances were also quickly at the scene, and
paramedics began ferrying the injured to hospital.

Terrible

Witness Siamak Vatanabadi, a bus driver, said of the blast scene: "There are
people injured there.

"A bus has exploded. It's a terrible scene."

One of the first on the scene was BBC radio reporter Paul Rowan, who said:

"The entire bus seemed to be blown away. There was metal and glass for around 50
yards all over the place.

"I saw one woman who looked in a very bad way, she was face down on the road
with bad-looking head injuries."

American tourist Scott Grover, 32, from Boston, said: "We were walking along
when we suddenly heard this almighty bang.

"The front of the bus was completely blown away but there didn't seem to be many
people in it and I don't know how many were injured.

"There was debris everywhere.

French tourist Sylviane Brunet, 22, had been walking down the Strand with a
girlfriend after a meal in a pizza restaurant.

Scream

"There was the loudest explosion I've ever heard in my life," she said.

"There was screaming and lots of confusion.

"I heard someone say it was a bomb, and I couldn't believe it, that it was right
here in the West End of London.

"I was absolutely terrified."

Last Thursday bomb disposal experts defused an 11lb Semtex bomb found in a phone
box in Charing Cross Road - near the scene of last night's explosion.

The IRA later admitted planting the device.

A pounds 1million reward has been offered to find the bombers who killed two
people in the Docklands blast.

Inside the IRA - Page 6

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NIGHTMARE: Bloody casualties are treated after the IRA blast which
brought carnage to London's teeming Covent Garden area

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               February 20, 1996

Mayhew attacks Adams during terror bill debate

BYLINE: By Desmond McCartan at Westminster

LENGTH: 361 words


SIR Patrick Mayhew has accused Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams of "sickening
hypocrisy" by claiming that London is scared of all-party negotiations.

And Ulster Unionist MP David Trimble warned that, with the bombings likely to be
only the start of a campaign, internment powers had to remain available.

Sir Patrick, moving the third reading of the Emergency Provisions Bill, said:
"This British government knows one thing that apparently eludes Mr Adams.

"It is this. That, in this democracy, people will only negotiate about the
future of their country if they have confidence in a permanent end having been
reached to the use of, or support for, paramilitary violence."

He also insisted the government would not be shifted from its stance.

The London attacks were "disgusting in their immoral character and horrifying in
their scale". He called the resumption of violence a "despicable decision".

Mr Trimble said the Sinn Fein-IRA leadership was reported in Dublin as believing
a "short and savage" campaign in England would break the government's will.

"Against that background, it would be criminally irresponsible to forswear the
use of the power of internment."

Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary Marjorie Mowlam said "let the people speak,
both about the background to the talks and who they want to take part," she
suggested.

Mid-Ulster MP Rev William McCrea said the reason for the Bill was because those
"that hate democracy, fight against it."

Newry and Armagh MP Seamus Mallon said no one had the right, or a mandate from
the Irish people, to say they killed in the name of the Irish people.

To those within the so- called republican movement his message was: "Stop
propagating that awful untruth that it is noble to kill other people for a
spurious type of Irish unity that wouldn't be worth the paper it's written on if
it was obtained by the death of those two people at Canary Wharf and the
thousands of other deaths."

DUP leader Rev Ian Paisley insisted: "Don't say to the representatives of the
majority, 'you must sit down with men who have guns at the ready if they don't
get what they want'."


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1996 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 20, 1996, Tuesday

Clinton attacks terror 'cowards' attacked by Clint

SECTION: NEWS; Page  2

LENGTH: 241 words


Washington (AP) - President Bill Clinton yesterday condemned the IRA bus bombing
in London and urged the people of Britain and Ireland to press for peace despite
"these cowardly acts of terrorism".

"I condemn these acts of violence in the strongest possible terms and hope those
responsible are brought swiftly to justice," Mr Clinton said in a statement
issued by the White House.

"It is with great sadness that I once again express my condolences to the
victims of an IRA bomb in London," Mr Clinton said. "These cowardly acts of
terrorism are the work of individuals determined to thwart the will of the
people of Northern Ireland."

The President had condemned the IRA's bomb attack on 9 February in Docklands,
east London, which broke a 17-month truce.

"We must not let the men of the past ruin the future of the children in Northern
Ireland," Mr Clinton said in a written statement.

Meanwhile, administration officials said that Mr Clinton would not decide in the
immediate future whether to grant a United States visa to Gerry Adams, president
of the Sinn Fein. Mr Adams wants to visit the US for St Patrick's Day on 18
March, but Mr Clinton will delay his decision until the last minute to see if
the violence continues, officials said.

One aide, who did not wish to be identified, said that it would be hard to
imagine Mr Adams being granted a visa if the Northern Ireland ceasefire was
still in shambles.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          February 21, 1996, Wednesday

GIRL'S GUN TERROR;
Crazed attacker held sawn-off shotgun to woman's head

SECTION: Page 12

LENGTH: 74 words


A crazed attacker held a sawn-off shotgun to a terrified woman's head before
turning it on himself.

Last night, police hunting the maniac were baffled by his motive.

The 23-year-old woman's ordeal happened in Broughton Street near Edinburgh city
centre on Monday afternoon.

The weirdo pulled the gun from his trenchcoat and pointed it at her head.

He then swivelled the gun around and held it to his own head before running off.


LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          February 22, 1996, Thursday

BOMB DAD'S RAP AT IRA;
Dad of terrorist bomber Ed O'Brien launches attack on IRA

BYLINE: John Kierans

SECTION: Page 8

LENGTH: 240 words


The dad of bus bomber Ed O'Brien yesterday launched a scathing attack on the
IRA.

Miles O'Brien warned terrorist sympathisers to stay away from his son's funeral.

Miles, 48, stormed: "We despise the paramilitaries and I have taught my family
to have nothing to do with them."

He added: "They have taken our boy and were prepared to use him to kill and maim
sons and daughters of innocent people.

"These evil and depraved paramilitaries are not welcome in our lives.

"I don't want the IRA playing soldiers at our boy's funeral."

Miles spent yesterday in mourning with wife Margaret and kids, Lorraine, 18, and
Gary, nine, at home in Gorey, County Wexford, Eire.

Former altar boy Ed, 21, phoned home only three hours before the bus blast on
Sunday.

He told his mum: "See you ma, I love you!"

Ed left home two years ago to work as a labourer in London.

Miles said: "Edward had no connection with these people while he lived at home.

"I can only assume that someone got to him in London."

The IRA last night confirmed Ed was a member.

Sinn Fein yesterday denied leader Gerry Adams had been invited to stand as
students president at Stirling University.

Tartan extremist Ben Goodwin wanted to get him elected during the new bombing
blitz and the move was backed by 20 students.

But a spokesman for Adams said: "We have received no invitation but if one were
to arrive it would be politely declined."


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           March 13, 1996, Wednesday

NEWS BITES;
Terror attack on young girl;
Police appeal for witnesses after a 14-year-old girl was subjected to " a
terrifying ordeal" by a man on the tow-path of the Caledonian Canal

SECTION: Page 13

LENGTH: 33 words


Police are appealing for witnesses after a 14-year-old girl was subjected to "a
terrifying ordeal" by a man on the tow-path of the Caledonian Canal, near
Fairfield Road, Inverness, on Monday.


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 14, 1996, Thursday

Man held over Islamic terror attacks

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  11

LENGTH: 70 words


London - A man was arrested yesterday in connection with alleged terrorist
offences in France between 25 July and 17 October 1995. The dates coincide with
bomb attacks in the Paris and Lyons areas which are blamed on Algerian Islamic
extremists. Mustafa Boutarfa, 21, is due to appear before Bow Street magistrates
today. If the court decides there is a case to answer, France will submit
extradition papers.


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 15, 1996, Friday

'Terror attack' fire kills 7 in Bahrain

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  12

LENGTH: 63 words


'Terror attack' fire kills 7 in Bahrain

Sitra, Bahrain - Seven people were killed in an arson fire at a Bangladeshi
restaurant in Sitra, south-east of the capital Manama. All the dead were
believed to be Bangladeshis. No arrests were made but a government official
called it a "terrorist attack" and said the arson was suspected to be the work
of opposition groups.  AP


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            March 19, 1996, Tuesday

TERROR FEAR AT SOCCER'S BIG EVENT;
SECURITY CHIEFS ON FULL ALERT FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS DUING EURO CHAMPION SHIPS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 160 words


SECURITY chiefs are on full alert for terrorist attacks at the Euro soccer
spectacular in June.

It is feared stadiums throughout the country may face gun or bomb outrages by
fanatics across Europe seeking to highlight their cause.

Among the venues are Manchester, Leeds, Birmingham and Liverpool.

As well as the IRA, the threat could come from Spain's Basque rebels and
Moslem-backed units from Algeria, co-ordinated in France.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ;

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 29, 1996

US CITIES 'VULNERABLE TO TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: Ian Katz In New York

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 747 words


AS United States and Middle Eastern officials met in Washington yesterday to co
-ordinate their international drive against terrorism, a new report claimed that
US cities remain virtually defenceless against chemical or nuclear attack by
terror groups.

More than three years after the World Trade Centre bombing, law enforcement
agencies are hopelessly ill-prepared for a massive terrorist strike, senate
investigators found.

"It is not a matter of 'if' but rather 'when' such an event will occur," their
report warned. "Many of the terrorist groups of today appear more likely to
utilise weapons of mass destruction."

The report says a secret exercise last year to assess the readiness of New
York's emergency services for a gas attack similar to that on the Tokyo
underground ended in chaos. Almost 100 of the first firefighters and police to
arrive were "theoretically killed by the gas since they were totally
unprepared".

Communication between emergency teams was hampered by incompatable radio
frequencies, and command posts were established too near the incident site.

New York officials told members of the Senate's permanent subcommittee on
investigations that a further exercise had been cancelled to avoid
embarrassment.

The report attacks US law enforcement agencies, thrust to the forefront of the
anti-terrorist war by President Bill Clinton's conference in Sharm el-Sheikh
earlier this month.

The FBI and the Federal Emergency Management Agency were criticised by the
committee for fighting "turf wars" instead of co-ordinating their response.

During a 1994 exercise in New Orleans, in which imaginary terrorists threatened
to detonate a nuclear bomb, the FBI acted in an "imperial fashion",
concentrating on hunting down the terrorists rather than protecting civilians.

The report was published as a joint congressional committee began work this week
on a compromise anti-terrorism bill giving law enforcement agencies greater
powers.

Mr Clinton drew up the "get tough" package after last year's Oklahoma City
bombing. But it has been bogged down in Congress, bitterly opposed by
Republicans, who say it gives too much power to federal government.

On Wednesday, however, the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole, urged legislators
to approve a bill to make it easier to expel suspected foreign extremists and
prohibit them from raising money in the US.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 29, 1996

Terror of woman attacked by gang

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 186 words


A PENSIONER who was dragged screaming from her bed by armed robbers remained in
an old people's home yesterday, because she is too ill and terrified to go home.

Three masked men broke down the door of Mrs Jean Hill's house in Shawburn
Crescent, Burnbank, Hamilton, late on Tuesday. One of the raiders pinned her to
a chair and threatened her with an iron bar before they ransacked the house in a
quest for cash. The gang escaped with hundreds of pounds and Mrs Hill's pension
book.

The frail 76-year-old widow, who was bruised in the attack, is now being looked
after at Kirkton House residential home in Blantyre, where the manager, Mr Jerry
Doherty, said yesterday: "She's just too frightened to go back. She has been
completely traumatised by the whole thing."

Detective Sergeant Alec Hippman, in charge of the hunt for the raiders, said:
"Mrs Hill will probably stay in the home permanently. It's such a shame that, as
a result of this evil crime, she will be forced to go into residential care."

Mrs Hill's only remaining family, who live in Larkhall, refused to talk about
the attack.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             March 31, 1996, Sunday

SEX-ATTACK TERROR OF STREET SNATCH YOUTH;
Teenage boy subjected to sex -attack

BYLINE: Norman Silvester

SECTION: Page 27

LENGTH: 188 words


A teenage boy was subjected to a terrifying sex ordeal after being dragged off
the street.

The 15-year-old was walking with friends near his home when he was approached by
two men.

He ran off, but they chased him in a jeep. They caught him, and he was attacked.

The boy was pulled into the vehicle and driven through the outskirts of Glasgow
by the thugs, then dumped in a remote area. Before he was thrown out one of the
men carried out a sickening sex attack.

Dazed and bleeding, he managed to flag down a police car.

Last night police launched a big manhunt.

The abduction happened late on Friday in Berridale Avenue, Baillieston, Glasgow.

The boy was thrown out into Cambuslang Road.

The jeep driver is in his early 20s, around 6ft tall, with dirty, fair short
hair and wearing a black leather jacket. The other man is in his late 20s,
around 5ft 5in tall and well built. He had an ear-ring in each ear, and wore a
white shirt and black waist-coat.

The jeep is a red, four-door turbo diesel.

Detective Sergeant Kenny Graham said: "Anyone with information should contact me
on 0141-532-4800."


LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             April 1, 1996, Monday

SDLP ATTACKS RUSH MOVE ON ANTI-TERROR LAWS

BYLINE:  Sian Clare, Political Correspondent, PA News.

SECTION: PARLIMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 237 words


Government plans to rush new anti-terrorism powers through Parliament were today
denounced by Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of Northern Ireland's nationalist
SDLP, as "underhand in the extreme".  He said, in a statement issued at
Westminster, that ministers had not mentioned proposals to "railroad" new
measures through the Commons when the Prevention of Terrorism Act was renewed
last month. "It shows complete contempt for parliamentary procedure, for the
right to consultation and the need to allow detailed scrutiny of the Bill by
political parties, legal watchdogs and objective observers." Mr Mallon also
attacked the Government for not announcing its plans last week as part of the
weekly statement of forthcoming parliamentary business.  "They have engineered a
situation where important and far reaching powers will be introduced, affecting
the communities in Britain as much as Northern Ireland, without any notice,
analysis, consultation or amendment.  "It is a shoddy piece of deception," he
said.  Mr Mallon said he would be complaining about the move at a pre-arranged
meeting with Mr Howard this afternoon. Party leader John Hume would protest when
he met Irish Deputy Prime Minister Dick Spring tomorrow.  "I will be making
known to both the Irish and British Governments the depth of my party's feeling
regarding what is effectively an act of contempt and sharp practice," Mr Mallon
declared.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             April 15, 1996, Monday

DI'S HORROR AT IMRAN HOSPITAL BLAST;
Terrorist bomb attack on Imran Khan's Pakistani Hospital

SECTION: Page 7

LENGTH: 195 words


Princess DI phoned Imran Khan yesterday to offer her sympathies about the bomb
attack on his hospital.

Six people, including three children, died and 34 were injured in the blast at
Lahore, Pakistan.

Diana visited the cancer hospital, built with funds raised by the cricket star,
earlier this year.

An aide said: "The Princess was shocked to hear of the bombing."

The hospital is named after Imran's mother who died of cancer.

The attack is thought to be linked with the former Pakistan cricket captain's
plans to go into politics.

Imran said: "I want to tell those who want to scare me that neither will I be
scared nor I will turn back."

His wife, British-born Jemima, added: "Children there are fighting for life.
For someone to bomb them is sick beyond belief."

She said the blast caused pounds 1million worth of damage.

Pakistan's Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto blamed terrorists.

Imran opposes her party and the main opposition Muslim League party.

He believed the bomb attack was aimed at frightening him into giving up his
social welfare aims.

Imran would not say if he had suspicions as to who was behind the hospital
blast.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 April 17, 1996

Cookstown duo face terror attack charges

LENGTH: 229 words


TWO Cookstown men have appeared at a special court in the town on charges of
false imprisonment, assault and having an offensive weapon - a baseball bat.

Phillip Magee, 41, and James Gerard Cullen, 35, both of Ratheen Avenue, were
remanded in custody to the magistrates court at the Maze Prison on May 8.

Cullen also faces a charge of belonging to the IRA.

The alleged offences took place in July last year.

In reply to defence solicitor Paddy Mallon, a detective constable said witnesses
had alleged the attackers were wearing improvised masks. The court also heard
the defendants had been interviewed about the matter last year.

Asked by Mr Mallon why they were not charged at that time, the RUC officer said
the witnesses, who had since moved house, were afraid of identifying the
assailants.

The detective constable said Magee replied ''No'' to all charges while Cullen
had said ''Not guilty'' In reply to Mr Mallon, the detective constable said two
witnesses alleged they had heard Cullen say he was a member of the IRA.

Also in court was Cullen's mother, Mary Cullen, 57, of Coolnafranky Park,
Cookstown, who is accused of assault, threatening to kill and attempting to
pervert the course of justice.

The offences are alleged to have taken place yesterday. The detective constable
said Mrs Cullen replied ''No'' to all the charges.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1996 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             April 21, 1996, Sunday

15 HURT IN GAS TERROR;
Gas attack in pub

SECTION: Page 23

LENGTH: 58 words


Fifteen people were hurt when a 'gas' attack forced more than 200 drinkers to
flee a packed pub.

The trouble started when a tablet that gave off poisonous smoke was dropped in
the bar.

Customers in McCauleys, Warrington, Cheshire, were treated for sore eyes and
breathing problems.

Police initially thought the tablet gave off CS gas.


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                 April 25, 1996

How hairdresser foiled 1939 terrorist attack

BYLINE: Simon Perry

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 280 words



WHEN the IRA hit Hammersmith Bridge for the first time in 1939 they had not
reckoned on the quick thinking and bravery of a west London hairdresser.

Maurice Childs was walking across the bridge in the early hours of 29 March when
he spotted a gang pull up in a car and dump a leather suitcase.

As he approached the smoking case, he heard fizzing and sparking noises and,
after looking inside to find it packed with a crude bomb, threw it into the
Thames. Moments later the device exploded. Accompanied by a police officer, the
intrepid hairdresser then gave chase in a taxi. Terrorists Eddie Connell and
William Browne, both 22, were convicted at the Old Bailey, Connell being jailed
for 20 years.

The IRA detonated a second suitcase device on the other side of the bridge that
night. It caused one of the huge suspension girders to collapse.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             April 26, 1996, Friday

30LBS OF TERROR;
IRA'S BIGGEST EVER SEMTEX BOMB ATTACK;
POLICE SAY IRA BOMB AT HAMMERSMITH BRIDGE FAILED BECAUSE OF POOR CONSTRUCTION

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 600 words


An IRA plan to rock London with a giant bomb was foiled by a mistake, it was
revealed yesterday.

The bomb - 30lbs of Semtex in a suitcase - would have brought down one of the
oldest bridges across the Thames and caused massive casualties.

But the Provo device, said by police to be the biggest ever seen on the
mainland, failed to go off because of a mistake in its construction.  Explosives
specialists say the detonator fired as a timing mechanism closed but it failed
to set off the huge parcel of plastic explosive that was hidden under
Hammersmith Bridge in west London.

The IRA have planted much larger bombs - up to three tons of explosives with a
Semtex trigger - on the mainland, but police say they had never seen such a
concentration of high explosive.

The bomb was thought to have been a "spectacular", designed to cause maximum
damage and disruption to one of London's main road arteries.

Detectives say the timer was set for 10.54pm just as pubs and restaurants were
turning out.

A vague coded warning was sent to a news agency at 10.22pm but police were
searching and trying to clear people away when the detonator fired.

Scotland Yard sources said that if the bomb had gone off it would have severed
the bridge and sent deadly blast-waves and shrapnel scything through nearby
pubs, homes and streets.

One anti-terrorist officer said: "The carnage would have been appalling.  Anyone
within a hundred yards would have been cut to pieces.

"Luckily the bomb malfunctioned because of incompetence."

The bomb is thought to have been placed after dark and left in a space under the
approach ramp at the bridge's north end.

Detectives believe a small IRA cell, including at least one woman, and based in
west London, put the bomb in place.

It follows last week's explosion at the Boltons in Kensington and February's
blast at Canary Wharf which ended the IRA's 17-month ceasefire.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LUCKY ESCAPE: The bomb would have brought down Hammersmith Bridge if it
had gone off correctly, say experts

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 28, 1996

Husband jailed for terror attack with imitation gun

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 443 words


A HUSBAND who terrorised a man who made an abusive remark about his wife was
jailed for five years at the High Court in Edinburgh yesterday.

The court heard how Bernard Donoghue "saw red" over the insult and produced a
gun. He threatened to shoot Alan Brunton in the private parts and to knee-cap
him with the weapon. The gun was later found to be a plastic imitation.

Donoghue also threatened to stab Mr Brunton with a Druid's sacrificial knife and
robbed him of £20, rings, a watch, and other items.

Donoghue, 21, described as a prisoner at Edinburgh, pled guilty to assaulting Mr
Brunton, 21, c/o Lothian and Borders Police, to his injury and to robbing him at
Drumdryan Street, Edinburgh, on February 11 this year. He also admitted
resisting arrest.

Mr Gerard Moynihan, prosecuting counsel, told the court the offence happened as
the two men were in a common stair at Drumdryan Street.

Mr Brunton was walking in front when Donoghue suddenly hit him on the head.
When Mr Brunton asked the reason for the attack, Donoghue replied it was for
insulting his common-law wife.

Donoghue then produced the gun, pointed it at Mr Brunton's private parts, and
threatened to shoot him. He also threatened to blow off his knee caps and then
pointed a knife at him.

Mr Moynihan added: "By this time Mr Brunton described himself as being terror
-stricken."

He said Donoghue admitted a previous conviction for assault to severe injury,
theft by housebreaking, and misuse of drugs.

He said neighbours had heard the commotion and called the police.

Mr Raymond Megson, defence counsel, told the court: "This was not a case of
Donoghue mugging an innocent man on the street. He saw red when Mr Brunton made
a derogatory remark about the accused's common-law wife."

Mr Megson said that Mr Brunton and Donoghue had met in the street earlier that
day.

They had been acquainted in the past and Mr Brunton asked where he could get
drugs. He claimed Donoghue took him to a house at Tollcross, Edinburgh, where Mr
Brunton bought a Druid's sacrificial knife from a man who collected memorabilia.

Mr Megson said that Donoghue's gun was a plastic toy which was falling apart.
He was taking the gun to mend it for two young relatives. Donoghue said he had
taken the Druid knife from Mr Brunton at the time of the attack.

Passing sentence Lord Macfadyen told Donoghue: "You have pled guilty to an
assault with a firearm and a very ugly knife, and robbery. It is an extremely
serious charge."

He said it was made even more serious because Donoghue had already been
sentenced at the High Court for crimes of violence.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                              May 31, 1996, Friday

MHAIRI JULYAN MURDER;
Sick McGuire jumped me 20 years ago;
Gavin McGuire began his reign of terror 20 years ago by attacking teena ger
Rozeen Bain

SECTION: Page 40

LENGTH: 322 words


McGuire began his reign of terror 20 years ago when he attacked two young girls
and teenager Rozeen Bain, now 36.

Rozeen was almost the same age as Mhairi Julyan when he pounced in broad
daylight.

Days later, she spotted McGuire in the street and her then boyfriend Neil Boyd
made a heroic citizen's arrest.

But the court gave McGuire bail.

And while he was free, he raped Neil's cousin.

Back in 1976, Rozeen was walking to Neil's house in Stevenston, Ayrshire, when
McGuire appeared.

She said: "He banged into me and pushed me against a wall.

"He snarled something like, 'You are coming with me. You won't be happy and it's
not going to be nice.'

"There was evil in his face. I'll never forget it.

"But I had a bag of messages in my hand and I just whacked him between the legs
with it.

"When he took his hand off me, I ran.

"By the time I looked back he was away."

Rozeen didn't tell the police right away because she worried about how her
father would react.

But officers came round the shops where she worked the next day.

They had a description of a man who had attacked two schoolgirls.

Rozeen realised he was her attacker.

Two days later, she was out with Neil when she spotted McGuire.

Neil, 38, recalled: "Rozeen went chalk-white. I asked her what was up and she
said he was the guy who had attacked her.

"I did a U-turn in the middle of the road and ran over and confronted him.

"He couldn't look me in the eye.

"Me and another chap got him in his car and took him to the police station.

"But after he appeared at court he was allowed bail and then he went out and
raped my cousin."

Neil and Rozeen wed a few years later but have since divorced. Rozeen married
again and now lives in the north of Scotland.

Both agree that the legal system let Mhairi Julyan down.

Rozeen said: "If he had not been released that poor young girl would still be
alive."


LOAD-DATE: May 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                             June 17, 1996, Monday

Attack renews fears of terrorist split

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 523 words


THE IRA's decision to bomb the centre of Manchester prompted intense speculation
about whether its leadership has wholeheartedly sanctioned a renewed terror
campaign or whether republicans are irrevocably split.

Dick Spring, Ireland's Deputy Prime Minister, used unusually blunt language
yesterday to give warning of breakaway and freelance'' groups at work within the
IRA. Unionists, however, dismissed talk of divisions and described the bombing
as a cynical attempt by the IRA leadership to register its anger with the way
the all-party talks at Stormont have been arranged. The differing reactions to
the Manchester attack underlined widespread confusion on both sides of the Irish
border about what tactics the IRA was pursuing.

Politicians and observers who fear that IRA hardliners are trying to move away
from the doves'', or at least put pressure on them to abandon the peace process,
point to the murder by the IRA on June 7 of Jerry McCabe, a Garda officer.
Within hours of the murder in Co Limerick, the IRA denied involvement. By
Saturday morning, however, just before the Manchester explosion, it admitted
that individual (IRA) volunteers were party'' to the shooting. The IRA statement
disavowed the shooting and said the volunteers'' responsible had acted to the
detriment of the republican cause''.

It is highly unlikely that a similar breakaway group was responsible for the
Manchester attack. IRA terrorists operating on the British mainland work for the
GHQ Staff in Dublin, which is directly controlled by the leadership. The attack
was also a virtual re-run of the London Docklands bomb on February 9.

The uncompromising stance of hardliners was voiced publicly last month in a rare
speech by Brian Keenan, a pivotal republican leader. Mr Keenan, a convicted IRA
terrorist, told supporters at the IRA plot at the Milltown Cemetery in West
Belfast last month that republicans will have our victory''. He then delighted
his audience when he told them not to be confused about the politics of
decommissioning.  The only thing the republican movement will accept is the
decommissioning of the British state in this country,'' he said.

Speculation about a split was fuelled on the day of Mr Keenan's speech when
Martin McGuinness, Sinn Fein's chief negotiator, sounded more conciliatory in a
television interview. Mr McGuinness said the IRA could be open to persuasion
about renewing its ceasefire.

Some observers believe that the contrast between Mr Keenan and Mr McGuinness
showed that republicans have deliberately engineered a strategy of talking peace
while waging war. Supporters of this scenario say the IRA is still committed to
its objective of Brits out'', but republicans realise that their relentless
terrorist campaign of old will not work.

This means that the IRA would turn its campaign on and off to suit its purposes
with carefully timed attacks on the mainland and in Northern Ireland.

A senior security source expressed fears that the IRA would use this summer's
loyalist marching season in Northern Ireland to resume its campaign in the
Province.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                             June 18, 1996, Tuesday

KIDS' ROAD RAGE TERROR;
CHILDREN WATCH AS FATHER IS ATTACKED BY ROAD RAGE MOTORIST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 174 words


A road-rage maniac rammed a motorist's car then tried to strangle him as his two
young children watched in terror.

The crew-cutted man, driving a gold Range Rover, went berserk after a prang.

He followed his victim's Ford Escort, then got out and tried to throttle him.

The victim's girlfriend fled with their baby girl in Reading, Berks.

The attacker smashed windows of the Escort with his fists as the couple's 19
-month-old son sat just feet away.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            June 29, 1996, Saturday

BRIT BARRACKS HIT BY TERROR ATTACK;
Mortars rock base;
Bombing in British Army base in Germany

BYLINE: Steve Atkinson

SECTION: Page 2

LENGTH: 417 words


Three mortar bombs exploded at the biggest British Army base in Germany last
night.

The bombs, thought to be the work of the IRA, were fired from a van parked
outside Osnabrueck garrison.

Miraculously no-one was injured.

There was no warning from the IRA before the blast.

Hundreds of British servicemen and their families were evacuated from their
homes which were showered with flying debris.

Dozens of windows were smashed and rooftops and buildings damaged.

The attack was launched from a British-registered white Ford transit van parked
outside the gates.

Quebec barracks, in the north west of the country, are home to 4 Armoured
Brigade - the elite Desert Rats and 21 Engineers Regiment.

It houses 10,700 British personnel and their families.

German police official Thomas Schnorfeil said: "They appeared to be aiming at a
petrol station inside the camp.

"Soldiers heard three explosion but the mortars missed and the damage appears to
be fairly minor."

A Rhine Army spokeswoman said: "When this happened the barracks were winding
down for the weekend.

"Many men would have already returned to their married quarters or have gone on
leave."

Two of the mortars have since been recovered.

John Major was informed of the attack while he was attending the G7 summit in
Lyon, France.

The summit yesterday held a debate on how to deal with terrorism worldwide.

It's now feared the attack is the start of an IRA campaign on mainland Europe.

Yesterday, Sinn Fein chairman Mitchel McLaughlin warned the IRA could strike
again.

Refusing to condemn the Manchester bombing, he said: "The IRA cessation is over.
They could strike at any time and any place."

Last night's attack also adds weight to reports of a new mortar bomb being
developed by the IRA.

Irish Prime Minister John Bruton said three days ago that the IRA were
developing new mortars for early use.

A new bomb was discovered in a raid at a bomb-making factory in Ireland.

Quebec barracks were the target of IRA bombers seven years ago when an active
service unit tried to murder 20 sleeping soldiers.

IRA terrorist Donna Maguire was later found guilty in Germany of five counts of
attempted murder.

She was jailed for nine years last year but released because of the time she
spent in prison awaiting trial.

Three others were also found guilty and jailed.

At the trial, it was claimed they placed the bombs with the "intention to murder
as many soldiers as possible".


LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            June 29, 1996, Saturday

IRA ATTACK ARMY BASE;
IRA TERRORISTS BLITZ GERMAN BASE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 214 words


IRA terrorists blitzed a British Army base with mortars last night. Three shells
screamed into the barracks, shattering dozens of windows and damaging rooftops.

But miraculously no one was hurt in the attack at Osnabruck, Germany.

The bombers opened fire without warning from a transit van parked outside the
main gates.

They were trying to blow up a petrol station in the camp - but missed.

Troops checked the area for booby-trap bombs.

There had been no warning, said a camp spokeswoman.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 29, 1996, Saturday

Terrorists in mortar attack on barracks

BYLINE: IMRE KARACS Bonn Peter Victor Colin Brown

SECTION: TITLE; Page  1

LENGTH: 775 words


A mortar bomb attack last night on the largest British garrison in Germany was
believed to be the work of the IRA. The attack prompted fears of a new terrorist
campaign against British targets on mainland Europe.

The attack took place at 6.50pm local time. Two mortars were fired from a van
parked outside the Quebec barracks in Osnabruck. The mortars were aimed at the
petrol station of the base but missed, local police said. One exploded inside
the perimeter fence near a petrol pump, leaving a crater, but injuring no one.
The second shell failed to explode on impact. The barracks were sealed off and
munitions experts quickly secured the area.

German police investigating the attack in conjunction with British military
police last night blamed the IRA. The German authorities said they were
examining a Ford Transit van with British plates.

The police said residents living nearby heard three separate explosions go off.
"We have found two of the mortars. One went 20 yards inside the base and hit a
tree," a police source said. "Another was found just outside the base, close to
a fence. We have not located the third one yet," he added. "Buildings were
shattered by the explosions but not hit."

Lieutenant-Colonel Jan-Dirk Merveldt, the British Army's spokesman in Germany,
said: "Apparently one of the projectiles fell near a petrol pump . . . there is
no fire or anything like that damaged in the area of the petrol pump," he added.

The Quebec barracks is one of the smallest in the town, housing only 300 people.
Osnabruck is home to 10,700 Britons, of whom some 4,900 are soldiers.  These
include members of the Queen's Royal Lancers, the Green Howards, 4 Regiment
Royal Artillery, 1 Battalion Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers and 2
Army Field Ambulance.

The barracks, which provides accommodation for troops on leave from Bosnia, many
of whom served also in the Gulf war, was the target of an attack in June 1989
when terrorists attempted to murder 20 soldiers by planting a 150kg Semtex
device next to a dormitory block.

The attack increased fears that the IRA has been gearing up for another
spectacular terrorist attack. Dublin and London sources confirmed to the
Independent last week that a bomb-making factory uncovered at a farm outside
Clonaslee, Co Laois, in the Republic last week provided hard evidence that the
IRA was preparing for a massive attack with Semtex bombs.

Only three days ago the Irish Prime Minister, John Bruton, said a new type of
IRA bomb had been discovered at the bomb-making factory. It is understood that
Mr Bruton's comments to the Irish parliament referred to a new type of mortar.
Mr Bruton said the bombs were being prepared for early use.

British ministers are seeking urgent talks with Irish counterparts in order to
agree a strategy on security against the IRA.

But yesterday morning, at a London press conference, Sinn Fein's chairman,
Mitchel McLaughlin, warned that the IRA could strike again. Refusing to condemn
the Manchester bombing, he said: "The IRA cessation is over.  They could strike
at any time and any place."

The Prime Minister, attending the G7 summit in Lyon, was immediately informed of
the attack as he dined with the other leaders tonight. A spokesman for Mr Major
said: "Clearly this is a matter for great concern but we are still awaiting
details of the nature of the incident."

The Tory former Northern Ireland Minister Peter Bottomley last night condemned
the attack. "The presumption must be that this was the IRA.  It must be
remembered always that the IRA do these things to calculate the public reaction,
and they anticipate the publicity. This is their version of a press notice," he
said.

IRA attacks in Europe

March 1987: 30 people injured by 300lb car bomb at British HQ in West Germany at
Rheindahlen.

1988: Three RAF men killed in attacks in Roermond and Nieuw Bergen, Netherlands.

July 1988: Nine men hurt in bombing at Glamorgan Barracks, Duisberg, Germany.

August 1988: Three Royal Engineers injured in blast in Dusseldorf, Germany.

August 1988: British soldier killed by gunmen in Ostend, Belgium.

June 1989: Terrorists planted 150kg Semtex device next to dormitory block at
Quebec barracks.

August 1989: Corporal Steven Smith killed by car bomb in Hanover.

October 1989: Serviceman and his six-month-old baby shot dead at filling station
in Wildenrath, Germany, near Dutch border.

May 1990: IRA attacks on the Continent appeared to have ended after two
Australian tourists were mistakenly gunned down by terrorists in Roermond, in
the Netherlands.


LOAD-DATE: July 01, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                              July 1, 1996, Monday

Major to outlaw foreign advocates of terror attacks

BYLINE: From Michael Binyon in Lyons

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 725 words


JOHN MAJOR called at the weekend for a change in international law to prevent
activists such as Muhammad al-Masari from using a foreign sanctuary to advocate
terrorism overseas.

The Prime Minister, praising the commitment of the Group of Seven leading
industrialised nations, together with Russia, to make life intolerable'' for
terrorists by giving them no place to hide, also insisted that the world should
look again at a 1951 United Nations Convention. He said that this should not
give protection for anyone either engaged in terrorism or advocating it.

We want much better co-ordination. We don't want terrorists shifting from one
country to another or using one capital because it is much easier to operate
from there. There has never been such unanimity of view among the heads of
government to take collective action against this,'' Mr Major said at the end of
the Lyons G7 summit.

Britain has been criticised by several allies, especially France, in the past
year because of its asylum laws, which do not specifically forbid asylum

seekers advocating violence and terrorism at home as long as they do not break
British law. The Government has been embarrassed by the calls of Saudi exiles in
particular for the overthrow of the Saudi Royal Family, and the Foreign Office
wants to see the law changed so that, as in France and several other countries,
asylum seekers are forbidden from engaging in political activity.

Malcolm Rifkind, the Foreign Secretary, is travelling to Saudi Arabia today to
reassure King Fahd that the G7 is determined to hunt down and punish terrorists,
and will deprive the advocacy of terrorism of any hiding place. He will be
followed on Friday by President Chirac of France, who will also convey
international support for the Saudis after the Dhahran bombing.

The summit, which was dominated by the fight against terrorism, endorsed a
40-point plan to combat international crime. Main points were the long-term need
to harmonise varying judicial systems and to simplify and speed up extradition
procedures. Interior and foreign ministers will meet in Paris this month to look
at what steps can be taken immediately, and how co-operation against organised
crime, including drug trafficking and money laundering, can be strengthened.
Interpol, which has its headquarters in Lyons, was briefed on these commitments.

The final communique also promised a tough programme to fight illicit
trafficking in nuclear materials. After their nuclear summit in Moscow in April,
the leaders said they would strengthen measures to control and account for
nuclear material, work out ways of disposing properly of fissile material no
longer needed for bombs, and placed sensitive nuclear material, such as
separated plutonium and highly enriched uranium, under the safeguards of the
International Atomic Energy Authority. G7 nuclear experts will meet in Paris in
October to decide further action.

There was clear disappointment in Lyons that the talks on a comprehensive test
ban treaty failed to keep the summit deadline, after India's refusal to sign the
draft agreement. The leaders said they were still determined to present a treaty
to the United Nations General Assembly in September. Meanwhile, pending its
entry into force, they called on all nuclear weapon states to exercise the
utmost restraint''. The communique also reiterated the importance of the
Chemical Weapons Convention, the need to implement, with proper verification,
the convention on biological weapons, and the urgency of sparing no effort to
rid the world of the scourge'' of anti-personnel mines, booby traps and other
devices.

The final afternoon of discussions on Saturday was devoted to reform of the UN
and international financial bodies. Boutros Boutros Ghali, the UN
Secretary-General, briefed the summit on his efforts to cut costs. But virtually
no progress was made on the awkward subject of who should succeed him, and Mr
Major insisted that the subject which set most G7 leaders against the Americans
was not broached in plenary sessions or in his meeting with President Clinton.

While the UN was the cornerstone'' of the international system, it needed to be
revitalised, strengthened and reformed, the leaders agreed. The scale of
national contributions should be made more equitable.


LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 5, 1996

IRA BOMBERS' HOLIDAY HOME;
Provos set new terms for ceasefire as police find safe house used by terrorists
in Osnabruck attack

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott And David Sharrock

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 947 words


A SAFE house used by the IRA team which launched the multiple mortar bomb attack
on the British army barracks at Osnabruck was yesterday being examined by German
detectives as the IRA set out fresh conditions for a restoration of its
ceasefire.

Blaming the British authorities for renewed violence, an IRA representative
tells this week's An Phoblacht-Republican News that the "key to a real peace" is
in the British and Unionists treating the problem as political rather than as a
security issue.

"A time frame is essential. A time frame for negotiations is now a well tried
and tested method of introducing momentum into any peace process. Everything
including constitutional change has to be on the table."

In Germany, the federal prosecutor in Karlsruhe said yesterday that three men
and two women stayed at the holiday home in a village near Oldenburg two weeks
before the attack. Sketches of Osnabruck's streets and the Quebec barracks were
discovered in the house.

There were no injuries in the attack last week, but it caused considerable
damage.

No descriptions of the members of the Oldenburg cell were released by the
prosecutor's office, which also refused to reveal the exact location of the safe
house.

It revealed that two men and a woman had rented the house from June 15, and were
joined on June 22 by another man and woman.  All five disappeared on the morning
of the attack.

A Ford Transit flat-bed lorry, linked to the attack and found at a motorway
service station at Wildeshausen near Oldenburg, was being investigated by
forensic experts.

The vehicle, bearing the false British number plate F291 TVN, travelled with the
lorry used in the attack from Cork, Ireland, to Le Havre, France, on June 23. It
had been seen several times at the holiday home.

All five IRA suspects left the safe house on the morning of June 28, the day of
the attack. German detectives are also searching for a blue Ford Orion with
Northern Ireland number plates including the letters DBZ, which was used by the
terrorists.

The car was spotted along with the van used in the attack near the barracks half
an hour before the blast. A senior German detective was yesterday working
closely with RUC detectives in Belfast to coodinate the hunt for the IRA active
service unit responsible.

No one was injured when three mortars were fired from the right-hand drive truck
parked outsidethe Quebec Barracks last week.

The shells made of gas bottles, each packed with 176lbs of home-made explosive
and a 5lb booster charge, were fired at a pair of fuel pumps, which were not in
use at the time. Only one shell exploded.

The improvised firing installation was screwed to the truck and covered with
tarpaulins, to hide the tubes. The mortars were triggered by a timer device in
the cab.

The federal prosecutor's statement said the terrorists were believed to have
visited other houses with the vehicles. Police had already found two vehicles
used by the terrorists in Germany, a Daimler -Benz Sprinter lorry and a 7 1/2
-ton Iveco lorry.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                             July 12, 1996, Friday

LABOUR URGES RE-THINK ON COMPENSATION FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE:  Peter Beal, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 184 words


A special Labour Party task force set up to respond to the Manchester bombing is
to review the rules on compensation for terrorist attacks on the mainland,
deputy leader John Prescott said today.  He said while the government had
introduced an automatic compensation scheme in Northern Ireland to prevent the
terrorists underminng the economy with a bombing campaign, businesses in the
rest of the UK had to be given some security. At present mainland businesses
have to rely on expensive insurance, sometimes backed by a government scheme.
Mr Prescott, in Manchester to meet civic and business leaders in the wake of the
IRA attack last month that caused damage estimated at £500 million, said: "I
think we have to seriously look at how we deal with these issues.  "If you can't
get insurance for your business against terrorism we have to offer some kind of
security in these cases.  "In Northern Ireland to prevent the terrorists having
an economic war and undermining commerce and industry the Government took
certain actions. We want to look at what they have done and learn from it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             July 14, 1996, Sunday

GULLS LAUNCH TERROR ATTACK ON HOSPITAL;
Seagulls dive bomb patients at Bellsdyke Hospital in Larbert

SECTION: Page 18

LENGTH: 149 words


Kamikaze seagulls are dive-bombing mentally-ill patients at a Scots hospital.

Terrified residents and staff have had their scalps bruised and cut by the crazy
birds.

Now health chiefs hope they've found a way to stop the gulls swooping at
Bellsdyke Hospital in Larbert, Stirlingshire.

A hospital spokesman said: "The seagulls are nesting close to two of our wards
which house patients who have mental illness.

"There are eggs about to hatch, and the birds are naturally protective. "When
they see people, they swoop on them.

"We've been trying to find a way that protects our patients and protects the
seagulls, because we don't wish to harm them.

"So when the hatching is over, we're removing the nests and putting them where
the birds will be fine and nowhere near patients.

"Bellsdyke is a pleasant and open space, so we think we've come up with the
right scheme."


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             July 19, 1996, Friday

JET EXPLODED LIKE HUGE FIREWORK;
230 killed in bomb attack by terrorists;
TWA jet explodes killing 230

BYLINE: Allan Hall In New York

SECTION: Page 2

LENGTH: 981 words


A Jumbo Jet was blown out of the sky yesterday - killing all 230 on board.

FBI sources in America said last night they believed a bomb caused the fireball
horror.

They pointed the finger at Hamas and Hezbollah - ultra-violent Islamic terror
groups.

And last night, it emerged a "very specific" warning had been given to an Arabic
newspaper, just ahead of the disaster, from a group that killed five Americans
last November.

As relatives struggled to come to terms with the tragedy, the FBI pledged to
leave no stone unturned in finding the killers.

The Boeing 747 exploded like a fireworks display over the Atlantic 10 minutes
after taking off from New York's JFK Airport heading for Paris.

TWA Flight 800 had travelled 15 miles and climbed to nearly 13,700 feet when it
disappeared from the radar screen without warning from the crew.

As bodies and wreckage were recovered from the sea off Long Island, some
investigators were calling the tragedy a carbon copy of the Lockerbie disaster.

Burns on the bodies and a study of wreckage made experts believe a hidden device
- possibly detonated by change in air pressure - destroyed the plane.

But they were also investigating the chilling possibility that the jet was
downed by a surface-to-air rocket.

One witness reported a streak of flame travelling UP towards the aircraft -
possibly the tail of a rocket.

The Federal Anti-Terrorist Task Force has taken control of the probe.

One agent said: "Early characteristics suggests that it was an explosion, and we
are leaning towards it being a terrorist explosion."

Another said: "We are becoming more and more sure it was a bomb."

Hamas are in the frame because they are bitterly opposed to the Middle East
peace process and US support of Israel.

But an Israeli intelligence source said they'd learned Hezbollah were planning
to hit an American target "in a way that would shake the world".

The alert to an Arabic newspaper came from the Movement For Islamic Change - who
bombed a military base in Saudi Arabia, killing five Americans.

The terrorists said there would be an attack on an American target at about the
time the TWA jet exploded. But the alert was not passed to the authorities.

Aviation experts were convinced a bomb was to blame. One said: "Jumbos don't
just fall from the sky. This seems to be a repeat of Lockerbie."

Attorney General Janet Reno said the FBI said they would probe all leads.

The search for debris was last night extended to cover an area 100 miles around
the crash site. And investigators found an aircraft black box flight recorder.

Coastguard helicopters and vessels had gone straight to the scene and 14 hours
later more than 100 bodies, many charred and burnt, had been pulled out of the
water.

Among the dead were 16 teenagers aged 14 to 18 on an exchange trip from
Pennsylvania.

Their school in Montoursville called them "the brightest and the best".

Five adults, including a teacher, were with the youngsters, whose parents rushed
back to the airport as news of the tragedy broke.

The toll of passengers also included 40 French, 11 Italians and a 17-strong
second crew on their way to pick up a flight in Europe.

The on-duty crew killed were made up of 14 flight attendants, two flight
engineers and two pilots with 30 years' experience each.

Grief-stricken relatives continued their sad pilgrimage to the airport yesterday
- seeking comfort and information.

Airport chaplain Rabbi Alvin Poplack said: "They came in sadness and in tears,
but without hysteria. We did our best to console them."

The Rev Jack Devine, who spoke to 15 family members, said: "They slowly had to
accept the fact that they would never see their loved ones again. It is a heart-
wrenching situation."

Flight 800 was dogged by trouble before it took off an hour late - partly
because of a security alert.

A bag loaded on the plane was removed after its owner failed to turn up, then
had to be reloaded when the passenger arrived.

Then a mobile conveyor belt parked by the plane broke down, and there was a
half-hour delay before it was removed.

Last night, an experienced British pilot said the trip should have been
straightforward - and also indicated a bomb may have been the cause.

Captain Eric Moody, just retired as a senior pilot of British Airways' 747
fleet, said: "I've forgotten how many times I have taken that route, but it has
always been a doddle."

The jet should have stayed up even if there had been a catastrophic engine
failure, said Captain Moody.

Captain Moody said: "There are very few things that can go wrong with a Jumbo
that you have to attend to quickly - the 747's a sturdy aircraft.

"The only problem comes when something falls off or there is some kind of engine
explosion or failure.

"But the flight crew would still have had time to alert the controllers.

"The 747 is built so you should be able to fly it with all four engines failed."

Captain Moody knows - he saved his own BA 747 and 239 passengers when all four
engines did fail.

The jet plunged 24,000 feet over Java as the engines stopped, choked with
volcanic dust. He and his crew fought for 14 minutes to restart the engines.

Captain Moody said: "That shows that, unless it was a terrorist bomb like
Lockerbie, the 747 can give you time to calmly manage to sort things out."

The jet that crashed is one of the safest around, even though it was also one of
the oldest of its type.

The Boeing 747-100 was a first generation Jumbo which TWA got in 1971.

A Boeing spokesman said: "It was certainly a very safe aircraft and we just
don't know what happened.

"Two of our specialist safety investigators are on their way to New York to
assist in the investigation. Our thoughts are with the families involved."

About 150 of the 747-100s are still in service.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 23, 1996

Reassurance for Britons as Foreign Office puts terrorists' attacks in
'perspective';Tourists warned to be vigilant

BYLINE: By Alison Daniels;;

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 791 words


BRITISH tourists heading for Spain have been warned to be vigilant after two
more bombs were discovered and defused on Sunday night and yesterday morning,
following a spate of activity by Basque terrorist group ETA.

With some of those injured by Sunday's blast at Reus airport set to be released
from hospital today, Spanish authorities have promised tighter security in a bid
to combat attacks directed at the country's tourist trade.

Since the Basque separatists called off a week-long ceasefire last month, and
resumed last summer's campaign of targeting tourists, there have been six
explosions in Granada and Malaga, and a weekend of bombings in packed resorts
along the Catalonian coast.

The latest explosives find, on Sunday evening, at the Hotel Augustus II, in the
north-east resort of Salou, was de-activated by the civil guard after a warning
was issued to radical Basque newspaper Egin.

However, last night, the Foreign Office said it did not intend to instruct
Britons not to travel to Spain but said tourists should be aware of the dangers
and be vigilant.

"Those wishing to travel to Spain should bear in mind this recent upsurge in
terrorist attacks apparently aimed at tourists but British tourists have not
been singled out and visitors should see them in perspective," a spokesman said.

Similiar advice was issued by the Spanish Tourist Office in London, which said
hoteliers and tour operators would be meeting the Spanish authorities to discuss
security.

The Association of British Travel Agents said only a handful of people had
cancelled holidays. Travel companies were under no obligation to give refunds
unless the Foreign Office issued an official warning not to visit.

On Sunday, 33 tourists - including 24 British and Irish - were injured after a
bomb exploded in Reus airport, 50 miles south of Barcelona. The bomb, planted in
a rubbish bin in the airport passenger lounge, was detonated as around 1000
people waited for flights to Manchester, Birmingham, and Gatwick.

Seven people hit by flying debris and glass, including Mrs Denise Rostron, 43,
from Aberdeen, were detained in hospitals in Reus and Tarragona.

On Saturday, there were two explosions at beach hotels in Cambrilis and Salou,
and an attack on a Civil Guard base in the Basque town of Ordizia. Another bomb
found inside a plastic box in a washroom of Salou's Delfin Park Hotel, where 500
British and Dutch tourists have been staying, was disarmed.

Spanish security minister Ricardo Fluchsa said new anti-terrorist measures, to
be announced in the next few days, will give police and judges more powers.
Meanwhile, more police would be drafted into the Costas.

He denied the Spanish government was fighting a losing battle against the
terrorists and said people were hurt at Reus airport because warning information
had been wrong. In the past, ETA has given lengthy warnings.

"At Reus, we were told there would be a bomb at 8.30pm - but that was not true
and when the authorities started to evacuate, it was too late."

In a bid to reassure the 10 million British tourists who visit Spain each year,
Mr Ian Bradley, vice-consul at the British Consulate General, in Barcelona, met
the Spanish authorities to discuss the situation.

Yesterday, he visited some of the injured Britons in hospital and said all were
cheerful and happy with the treatment they were receiving. He said the Spanish
authorities were clearly concerned but reiterated advice that tourists should
exercise common sense.

The bombings have been greeted with a mixture of stoicism and fear by those on
holiday in Spanish resorts, and a sense of alarm by the Spanish tourist
industry.

Since Spain's general election, five months ago, ETA has murdered a Basque
policeman and increased attempts to orchestrate street violence throughout the
Basque country.

The latest bombings perhaps signal the organisation's renewed strength,
following the arrest of three of its leaders in 1992.

Hoteliers say it is too early to evaluate the damage ETA's summer campaign may
inflict.

"We will be able to assess the problem at the beginning of August," said Mr
Enric Aragons, chairman of the Hotel Casablanca, in Salou.

He said the tourism industry was particularly worried that Britons, who are
already coming in smaller numbers this year, would cancel holidays after the
Reus airport blast.

"You don't know how to defend yourself. It's something unpredictable," he added,
describing the frustration felt by many whose livelihood depended on tourism.

Spain was the world's second most popular tourist destination last year, with
more than 45,000,000 visitors, nearly half of them Germans and Britons.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Seemingly unperturbed by the recent spate of terrorist activity,
holidaymakers in Spain pack the beach at Salou.  Picture: JOHN STILLWELL/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 July 26, 1996

BRITISH DIVER TELLS OF SHARK TERROR;
Swimming with dolphins may provoke attacks, warns expert. Stuart Millar on a Red
Sea incident

BYLINE: Stuart Millar

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1667 words


AN EXPERT warned yesterday against swimming with dolphins after a British
holidaymaker told how they had saved his life during a shark attack that left
him needing more than 200 stitches.

Martin Richardson, aged 29, from Fordham, Essex, was diving in the Red Sea off
Egypt's Sinai peninsula on Tuesday when the shark struck, biting the left side
of his chest. He was swimming with dolphins at the time.

Ian Fergusson, director of the European Shark Research Bureau, said yesterday
that Mr Richardson's attacker was probably a shortfin mako, a relative of the
great white, which also frequents Cornish offshore waters during high summer.
Makos have rarely been implicated in attacks.

Mr Fergusson warned that swimming among dolphins may provoke shark attacks.
"Dolphins are often prey to sharks in a number of regions worldwide," he said.
"In my view, it is as mad as strolling around a waterhole in the Masai-Mara,
surrounded by wildebeest, and not giving a damn about the risk from lions."

Thousands of people swim with dolphins every year in attractions used worldwide
to promote resorts, although in some cases the dolphins are kept in controlled
areas.

Describing the attack from the military hospital at al-Tur where he was
subsequently taken, Mr Richardson said: "The shark punctured my lung and took a
little piece of my rib with it and a few muscles.  I didn't really feel any
pain. It was more shock than anything else. It let go of me and then it came
back again. There was blood everywhere and I screamed for my friends in the boat
to come and pick me up."

Mr Richardson said he did not see the shark until the second attack. "It bit
under my left shoulder and that was about the worst of all. That one really
ripped all my muscles.

"I saw the top of its head. I punched it with my right hand and it went away
again and then it came back and took another bite out of me - a fleshy bite
above my right nipple.

"I was struggling and screaming and then it went away again. I was waiting for
it to come come and finish me off. For sure I thought I was a goner."

Although the boat did not reach Mr Richardson for another two minutes, the shark
did not return for the kill. His friends believe he owes his life to three
bottlenose dolphins.

They encircled Mr Richardson, flapping their fins and tails to scare away the
shark - a defensive behaviour marine zoologists say is common for mothers trying
to protect their calves from predators. The dolphins continued to circle until
Mr Richardson was pulled aboard the boat.

"I don't know what happened, it just didn't come back. Something stopped it.
Whether it was the dolphins I don't know," he said.

He suffered at least four bites to his shoulder, stomach and back, including one
that punctured a lung. Witnesses claimed that his beating heart was visible
through the wounds.

Doctors said he received more than 200 stitches and may have to have a skin
graft above his right nipple.

Although shark attacks are often fatal, Mr Richardson is the second Briton to
survive an attack in the last four months. In March, Jean Hotchkiss, aged 47,
from Warwickshire, underwent a four-hour operation to save her arm after she
tore free from a tiger shark off Australia's Great Barrier Reef.

Only five or six out of 350 species of shark are known to attack swimmers. The
most dangerous are the white, the bull, and the tiger species.

Figures for shark attacks are unreliable because tourist resorts are afraid to
report incidents.  According to the ESRB, about 30 attacks are reported
worldwide each year, of which around 25 per cent are fatal. But in the
Mediterranean, 48 of the 60 confirmed incidents since 1900 have been fatal, and
probably the work of great whites.

White sharks hunt by getting to the least linear distance from their prey -
often directly underneath - then swinging up vertically to hit the prey with so
much force that it comes straight out of the water with the victim in its mouth.

Saved by dolphins:

Martin Richardson from Fordham near Colchester required more than 200 stitches
after being attacked by a shark while diving in the Red Sea. A group of dolphins
surrounded Richardson in an apparent attempt to protect him. He is recovering in
al-Tur military hospital.

Recent shark attacks:

Mar 1996 - Jean Hotchkiss, from Warwickshire, undergoes surgery to save her left
arm which was left with "bits hanging off everywhere" after a tiger shark attack
in Australia.

Jan 1996 - A Mako shark rams and sinks an Australian fishing boat, then circles
the survivors, clinging to a tiny life raft, for nine hours.

Sept 1995 - Surfing champion Andrew Carter becomes the only man to survive a
double attack by a great white, but his best friend is eaten alive. Carter's leg
was bitten to the bone from hip to knee.

June 1993 - A 16ft great white Shark devours a man on his honeymoon 400 miles
north of Sydney while his bride watches in horror.

June 1993 - Therese Cartwright dies in shark attack while diving off the coast
of Tasmania.

Mar 1993 - Sharks eat at least nine people whose boat capsized off the coast of
Papua New Guinea.

Aug 1988 - Patrons of a New Orleans restaurant with a giant aquarium watch while
an amateur diver is attacked by a 120lb shark called Awesome.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             July 28, 1996, Sunday

BOMB THAT'S SIMPLE TO MAKE - AND HIDE;
PIPE BOMB USED IN TERRORIST ATTACK ON THE ATLANTA OLYMPIC GAMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 200 words


Pipe bombs are a favourite of terrorists.

They're easier to hide than other devices and can be made in under an hour using
common items like fertiliser, electrical wire and a basic clock.

The explosive is often surrounded by "shipyard confetti" - a mix of nuts, bolts
and nails which turns into deadly shrapnel when the bomb explodes. An
easily-bought detonator, battery and timer complete the lethal circuit.

A former bomb squad soldier said yesterday: "Pipe bombs are known to be one of
the favourite weapons of extreme militia groups in America.

"They are often devastating and have been used around the world for years."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            July 31, 1996, Wednesday

ATTACK ON TERRORISM;
The leading industrial countries yesterday declared war on terrorists w ith a
25-point action plan

SECTION: Page 2

LENGTH: 71 words


The leading industrial countries yesterday declared war on terrorists with a
25-point action plan.

It's designed to choke terror gang's funding, stifle their movement and pre-empt
attacks. G7 states and Russia met in Paris just days after the Atlanta bombing.

Home Secretary Michael Howard said later: "We cannot offer our citizens total
protection but that only reinforces the imperative to do everything we can."


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 FT Energy Newsletters - Power in Latin America

                                 August 1, 1996

News: Possible terrorist attacks against US targets in Colombia

SOURCE: Power in Latin America

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 90 words


Leading oil companies anticipate a possible increase in terrorist attacks
against US targets in Colombia, should ties between the countries deteriorate
further.  The July 30 letter to the US assistant secretary for energy resources
and economic sanctions, William Ramsay, carried a warning from 11 companies
including BP, Chevron, Texaco and Triton, that guerrilla targeting of oil and
coal facilities would escalate.

There have been 21 attacks on Ecopetrol oil pipelines since August 4, with
estimated damage of dollars 2m.


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newsletter

                Copyright 1996 Financial Times Business Limited

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             August 4, 1996, Sunday

Clues to TWA terror attack

BYLINE: Nick Rufford in New York

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 152 words


EVIDENCE is mounting that a powerful bomb planted in or near the first-class
galley blew up TWA flight 800, killing all 230 people on board.

The violence of the blast embedded parts of a food trolley in one of the
first-class passengers, according to sources at the Suffolk County medical
examiners' office, which has carried out postmortem examinations on more than
180 of the 191 bodies so far recovered. Sharp fragments of china used to serve
meals to first-class passengers on the flight have been found lodged in the
ceilings and walls of the first-class cabin.

FBI agents are interviewing ground staff and contractors who loaded the food
trolleys and cleaned the galleys before the flight. They are also examining
wreckage from the forward fuselage to see whether the bomb could have been in a
bag immediately beneath the galley, or concealed behind a panel in a lavatory
next to it.


LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bomb

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 5, 1996

NEWS IN BRIEF: DESERT TROOPS 'ALERT FOR TERRORIST ATTACK'

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 454 words


WESTERN forces in Saudi Arabia were on alert for an imminent terror attack
yesterday following a sudden increase in Gulf tension over the bombing of a
United States air force barracks in the kingdom in June.

US, French and British troops stationed at Saudi military installations adopted
identical top-level security measures. The moves followed warnings from the US
defence secretary, William Perry.  Separately, the US warned Kuwait of security
threats from Iraq and "other countries in the region", the Gulf state's foreign
minister said.

American troops in Saudi Arabia have been bombed twice in seven months. A
fuel-truck bomb killed 19 US airmen at a housing complex near Dhahran in June.
Five Americans and two Indians were killed by a car bomb in Riyadh last
November.

On Friday, Mr Perry singled out Iran as "certainly the leading candidate for
international terrorism directed against the United States", and said that
Washington would take strong action against any country proved to be involved in
the Saudi bombings.  He would not say what that action would be.

Yemen said yesterday it was hunting a Yemeni suspected of helping four Saudis
who confessed to the Riyadh car-bombing. An interior ministry official said the
fugitive fled to Yemen from Saudi Arabia before the blast.

In the Gulf, meanwhile, 15,000 US sailors and marines in dozens of ships,
including an aircraft carrier battle group, were involved in a military exercise
to test America's ability to set up operations in the region quickly. - Reuter,
Dubai.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 5, 1996

Troops on alert for terrorist attack

BYLINE: From Patrick Brogan;Washington, Sunday;;

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 511 words


AMERICAN forces in Saudi Arabia are on high alert, expecting a further terrorist
attack against them at any moment. Nineteen servicemen were killed by a truck
bomb in June, and five in November.

The Secretary of Defence, William Perry, said on Saturday: "We expect more
terrorist attacks." Many Americans are being moved to a Saudi air base in the
desert, presumably safer than the base they now use near the Gulf. The Americans
and the Saudis, at least so far, appear determined to maintain the US presence
in Saudi Arabia, which is used as an air base for patrols over Iraq and to deter
a further Iraqi attack on Kuwait.

Mr Perry said on Friday that be believed that the June attack was planned by
international terrorists, and hinted that they came from Iran. He said that the
US would respond strongly if that proved to be the case.

He backed away from those assertions somewhat the next day, saying that he had
no precise knowledge of the results of the Saudi investigation into the bombing.
However, he has just returned from Saudi Arabia where he went specifically to
discuss the security of American installations.

In his interview on Saturday, he said he had "gleaned nothing about who is
responsible for the bombing" during his visit to Saudi Arabia. He repeated that
the bomb had been constructed of military explosives and used a military
detonator: it was not an amateur weapon, like the Oklahoma City bomb.

Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Javed Zarif said today that his country saw no
danger of US retaliation for its alleged role in the June truck bombing.

"We believe that the situation, these allegations, are not that serious," Zarif
said from Teheran in an interview on CNN television's programme Late Edition.

"The political situation certainly does not warrant in the United States for the
US to go to the extreme of getting itself in a very serious situation," he said.
"We do not think that the American officials will get involved in that."

Zarif repeated denials that Iran was involved in the Saudi explosion. "Iran is
on the record that it had not any involvement in that bombing or any other
terrorist incident for that matter," he said.

Saudi Arabia is expected to release a report on the bomb investigation soon.

President Bill Clinton is due tomorrow to sign a law that seeks to isolate Iran
and Libya economically by penalising non-US companies that invest in oil and gas
projects in the two countries.

q.The US Central Intelligence Agency suspects Iran may be linked to the crash of
TWA Flight 800, Time magazine reports today, citing a well-placed US
intelligence source.

Time reported the source saying that calls and transmissions tracked by the CIA
out of Tehran "have raised suspicions" there is an Iranian connection to the
disaster that killed 230 people when the TWA Boeing 747 blew up as it left New
York on July 17.

The CIA and US State Department were not immediately available to comment on the
Time magazine report.

In the firing line . . . . . . Page 9

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           August 7, 1996, Wednesday

CAR GUNMEN'S TERROR ATTACK;
Robert Arthur fighting for life after drive -by shooting

SECTION: Page 13

LENGTH: 41 words


A man was fighting for his life yesterday after a drive-by shooting.  Robert
Arthur, 22, was gunned-down as two cars sped by near his home in Bellrock
Street, Cranhill, Glasgow.  Locals believe it was a mistaken revenge shooting
over drugs.


LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                            August 11, 1996, Sunday

CLUB GAS ATTACK TERROR;
Dancers fled in terror yesterday after a gas canister attack in Grand O le Oprey
night club in Glasgow

BYLINE: Norman Silvester

SECTION: Page 31

LENGTH: 219 words


Dancers fled in terror yesterday after a gas canister attack in a night club.

Three men and two women were taken to hospital after the incident.

They were treated for eye injuries.

Stewards at the Grand Ole Opry in Glasgow were breaking up a fight in the club's
foyer when the gas was sprayed at three men.

The powerful stinging fumes - possibly CS gas - spread into the main hall and
stunned customers were evacuated.

The women, who were worst affected, were rushed by ambulance to the Southern
General, while the men went by car.

All five were released from hospital after treatment.

Detectives are studying video footage from the club in a bid to identify the
culprits.

One theory is that a customer may have had a gas spray in a bag and used it when
the fight broke out.

Detective Inspector Tom Cunningham said: "A fight broke out in the foyer while
three men were being ejected.

"Someone produced the canister and sprayed it towards the men."

Customers were allowed back into the club once the fumes had cleared.

The Grand Ole Opry country and western club in Paisley Road is popular with
cowboy fans, who dress up and take part in mock gun fights.

Many customers were in cowboy outfits at the time of the incident.

The club featured in a recent Taggart TV series.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                August 14, 1996

Second terror attack on SDLP man

BYLINE: By Paul Connolly

LENGTH: 361 words


Security Correspondent

THE councillor who is the scourge of the paramilitary punishment squads may quit
his home after yet another attack.

Belfast SDLP man Hugh Lewsley today demanded more protection for his house after
a concrete block was hurled through his bedroom window. He said: 'The thugs will
never stop me speaking out, but the safety of my children has to come first.'
Two masked men heaved half a breeze block into the house at Glasvey Walk,
Twinbrook at 3.10am today.

The SDLP councillor and his two sons, Christopher (11) and Cormac (14) were
asleep during the raid.

The chunk of breeze block smashed through the window and landed in the bed
beside him.

The attack came hours after Mr Lewsley, who was severely beaten in an attack
last year, spoke out against the punishment squads on a Channel 4 documentary
last night.

Mr Lewsley, a 39- year-old security firm manager, said: 'This lump of breeze
block landed on the bed beside me, but luckily I wasn't hurt. 'I looked out and
could see two youths in masks and dark clothes.' The Northern Ireland Office
paid for bullet-proof glass and other security measures at the house last year -
but only on the ground floor. 'The thugs obviously knew the bedroom windows
weren't secure,' he said. 'I will be meeting officials from the NIO and RUC to
get security improved.

'Regrettably, unless I get the security I desire, I will have to consider my
position living here.

'The thugs will never stop me speaking out against the punishment gangs, but my
children were very distressed last night and they have to come first.'

SDLP councillor Patricia Lewsley, Mr Lewsley's estranged wife, said:

'This was obviously very distressing, especially for the children. 'It is
ridiculous that the NIO only put security downstairs and not on the whole
house.'

Hugh Lewsley fled his home for a time last July after a beating by eight men
left him with a fractured cheekbone, bad cuts and bruises. Nancy Gracey, of the
pressure group Outcry, said the attack was 'disgusting'.

'Hugh Lewsley is a brave man and violence is the only kind of language these
thugs know,' she said.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1996 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           August 14, 1996, Wednesday

VIDEO WAR ON BUS TERRORISTS;
VIDEO CAMERAS INTRODUCED TO HALT ATTACKS ON BUS PASSENGERS

BYLINE: Jonathan Russell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 414 words


Children as young as six are terrorising bus passengers by hurling missiles at
them from the roadside.

A spate of attacks across the country has left travellers nursing cuts and
bruises after being struck by bricks, stones and bottles.

In the latest incident, a brick was lobbed through a window, hitting young mum
Sylvia McDonnell and leaving her covered in blood.

Now Gaelic football star Jason Sherlock has been brought in to head up a
campaign aimed at stamping out the vandalism which is costing companies more
than pounds 1million a year.

He will appear on a special video for schools, urging children not to throw
objects at the vehicles.Sylvia, 25, was left in agony when her bus was attacked
on a journey from Dublin to Finglas. "I saw a brick coming through the window.

"It hit me on the head and cut my face," she said.

"I thought I was going to die and my brain was going to explode.

"When I stood up and saw my reflection in the window there was blood all over my
face and I just collapsed."

Dublin Bus spokesman Joe Collins said attacks were becoming more frequent.

He added: "We feel it is mainly young children involved. We might get two or
three attacks in a day."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AGONY: Sylvie McDonnell

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           August 17, 1996, Saturday

STAR ALLAN IN ATTACK TERROR;
Comedy star Allan Stewart mugged in brutal attack

SECTION: Page 10

LENGTH: 40 words


Scots comedy star Allan Stewart was mugged in a brutal attack.

The entertainer was attacked just yards from his home in London.

A thug knocked the star to the ground before ripping his pounds 8,000 gold Rolex
watch from his wrist.


LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                            August 20, 1996, Tuesday

CAR GANG TERROR;
MAN ATTACKED NEAR NAAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 134 words


Three men jumped from a car and beat up a passer-by nearly killing him, it was
revealed yesterday.

Their 27-year-old victim was seriously ill with head injuries last night.  He
was attacked while walking home near Naas.

The incident follows controversial plans to set up a private police force to
guard local housing estates.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          September 10, 1996, Tuesday

TERROR OF 'EVIL EYES' ATTACKER;
DEVIL-WORSHIPPER GOES ON RAMPAGE IN RISCA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 467 words


A devil-worshipper called "Evil Eyes" was jailed for life yesterday over a knife
rampage that brought terror to a village vicarage.

Shaven-haired Geoffrey Adams hated Christians. Wearing black clothes and
surgical gloves, he set out to kill the Rev Richard Pain. On his way to the
vicarage he stumbled upon 80-year-old Maisie Downs who was on a midnight walk.

Adams, 27, slashed Mrs Downs across the face and left her for dead in a pool of
blood.

She lost an eye in the frenzied attack but doctors saved her life.

Adams went on to the vicarage in his home village of Risca, Gwent, where 39
-year-old Mr Pain lived with his wife Juliet, 35, and three young children. He
hammered on the door, then started kicking it.

Police were called and Adams lunged out with the hunting knife, wounding a
constable, before being disarmed. Jobless Adams, of Elm Drive, Risca, pleaded
guilty at Cardiff Crown Court to maiming Mrs Downs, trying to attack the vicar
and wounding Pc Robert Barber.

Jailing him for life, Judge Michael Gibbon said: "You present an immense danger
to the public."

Adams had a long history of violence. He became a devil worshipper while sharing
a cell with a "high priest of satanism."

Adams was released 12 months early, with remission for good behaviour, from the
last of three jail terms.

Mrs Pain said last night: "I was terrified that he would smash his way into the
house."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EVIL EYES: Adams

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 11, 1996, Wednesday

SOLDIERS JAILED FOR BOTTLE SEX ATTACK;
Drinks Binge: Rookie terror after Bosnian trip;
Andrew Graham, Michael Morrison and Darin Miller jailed for sex attacks on young
recruits

SECTION: Page 9

LENGTH: 270 words


Three soldiers were jailed yesterday for sick sex assaults on young recruits.

The men, all Highland Gunners, were found guilty at a court martial.

They claimed the brutal attacks were just drunken horseplay during an initiation
ceremony.

The ring-leader, Bombardier Michael Morrison, 26, of Aberdeen, was jailed for
five years.

Lance Bombardier Andrew Graham, 23, from Durham, and Gunner Darin Miller, 23,
from Middlesbrough, were each given four years.

All three were also booted out of the Army.

A fourth, Lance Bombardier Adam Gardiner, from Lanark, was cleared of all four
charges of indecent assault against him.

The attacks happened after the Highland Gunners, officially known as 19
Regiment, Royal Artillery, had just finished a six-month stint in Bosnia.

A teenage rookie was spread-eagled half naked across a table in a hotel bar in
Split, Croatia.

He was then assaulted with an empty beer bottle. Later, two other soldiers were
assaulted in the same way in the room they were sharing in the hotel.

The victims, still serving in the Army, are not being named.

The court martial, in Colchester, Essex, was told the attackers, who all denied
the offences, had been on a drinking binge.

Morrison, described as a good soldier who had also served in Northern Ireland
and Belize, told the court it had just been horseplay.

The soldiers' former adjutant, Captain Andrew Reynolds, told the hearing the men
had been under stress after their posting to Bosnia.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said last night: "We do not tolerate any form of
bullying or initiation ceremony."


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 12, 1996, Thursday

SCOT IS TERROR SQUAD VICTIM;
John McGinlay attacked in Londonderry while visiting his sister

SECTION: Page 5

LENGTH: 198 words


A Scots spoke last night of his terror at the hands of an Ulster punishment
squad.

John McGinlay had his right kneecap shattered and left leg badly bruised by four
masked men with baseball bats and a pickaxe handle.

The attack happened in the Londonderry home of his sister, Anne-Marie Keogh.

John, 25, from Glasgow, was visiting with his family when the terrorists struck
- but it's believed they got the wrong man.

The gang burst in as he sat watching telly with his wife Teresa and six-
month-old son, John Jnr.

John said: "Masked men kicked in the door of the house and dragged me out of the
livingroom into the kitchen.

"They started to hit me about the legs with baseball bats and a pickaxe handle.

"They then dragged me out of the kitchen and started to smash up the house.

"My wife, my sister and the children were screaming in terror."

John had to be helped out of the house and friends took him to hospital.

Terror chiefs have now told his sister's family to get out of Northern Ireland.

But Anne-Marie said: "I'm determined to stay. They said we were drug dealers,
but we're not."

Police in Northern Ireland are investigating the attack.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 13, 1996

Helen Mirren attacks terrorism as families shun movie

LENGTH: 566 words


Hunger strike film star hits at IRA 'cowards'

By Eddie McIlwaine

A CONTROVERSIAL film about the hunger strike which opens tonight in Northern
Ireland has run into a fresh row after the star launched a scathing attack on
the IRA.

Helen Mirren, award-winning star of Some Mother's Son, described the terrorists
as 'cowardly' last night after the premiere of the film in Dublin.

Pressed by reporters on her views on terrorism, she angrily declared:

'Right! I think they are all cowardly ---holes, the people who plant these
bombs.'

And it emerged today that the majority of hunger strike survivors and the
relatives of the 10 men who died will be giving the film a miss. The family of
Bobby Sands has already strongly criticised the Terry George film and Sinn Fein
councillor Pat McGeown, who spent 42 days without food, also has no intention of
seeing it.

Blanket-man Eamonn MacDermott from Londonderry said the film failed to capture
the reality of life inside the H- blocks at the time of the hunger strike.

'They could have done some basic research to get even the physical layout,' he
told RTE's Pat Kenny after the premiere.

'I thought the prisoners came across as not very... they did not come across as
people. I thought the only characters in the film that stood out were Helen
Mirren and Fionnula Flanagan's characters. 'All the male characters were
cardboard cut-outs, almost.' During the post premiere Press conference, Miss
Mirren, who plays the pacifist mother of a prisoner on the blanket protest of
1981, also emphasised:

'There are no neat and comfortable answers to all of this. 'There will always be
questions and we want people to come out of this movie asking questions.' Some
Mother's Son is the story of two mothers of hunger strikers in the Maze Prison -
the second one, a hard line republican played by Fionnula Flanagan - and how the
events play havoc with their lives. Bobby Sands, the first of the 10 hunger
strikers to die in 1981, is played by John Lynch.

In one scene he is told by a fellow prisoner that he looks like Jesus Christ.

The film is directed by Belfast-born Terry George, who served a term in the Maze
as a republican activist but is now a pacifist. He has already stated that he
would like to make a film from the loyalist point of view about the Northern
Ireland situation.

He insisted: 'At that time the loyalist involvement in events in Northern
Ireland was low key and in our editing for a two-hour film we concentrated on
the republican side.

'I would definitely like to make a film concentrating on the loyalist side of
things if money became available.' Jim Sheridan, producer of the film, said
reports that Some Mother's Son had been banned in the UK were untrue.

So far, only three Ulster cinemas - the Strand in Derry, Virgin on Belfast's
Dublin Road, and the Movie House at Yorkgate and Glengormley - have opted to
show the movie.

Fionnula Flanagan is expected in Belfast tomorrow along with director George to
attend a private screening of the film in west Belfast for his family and
friends.

Miss Mirren, who has just won an Emmy for Prime Suspect, is scheduled to travel
to Nice next week for another Some Mother's Son premiere. A friend in Dublin
said today she had been taken aback by the aggressive questioning by journalists
at the Dublin launch of the hunger strike movie.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1996 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               September 23, 1996

YARD SHOOTS 'IRA BOMBER';
Suspect killed as seizure of 10 tonnes of explosives foils plan for massive
terrorist attacks in London

BYLINE: Justin Davenport;Gervase Webb

SECTION: Pg. 1;2

LENGTH: 1347 words



A SUSPECTED terrorist was shot and killed by police today during a series of
raids in which 10 tonnes of explosives and an arsenal of weapons and bomb-making
equipment was recovered - the biggest ever blow against the IRA on the British
mainland.

In the pre-dawn raids armed police and MI5 officers effectively pulled the plug
on a massive series of 'spectaculars' planned by the IRA which would have made a
mockery of the ongoing peace process.

It was clear from what was seized that the republicans were planning a series of
bombings on a scale far larger than the blast which devastated Manchester in
June, together with assassination attempts on leading figures.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon said at a news conference this
afternoon: 'I have no doubt that today's operation has frustrated an attempt by
the IRA to carry out significant and imminent attacks on the mainland, which
were designed to lead to a large loss of life.'

The raids were carried out in south and west London, Crawley in Sussex and South
Yorkshire. The suspected terrorist was shot as armed police forced their way
into a lodging house in Glenthorne Road, Hammersmith. One other man arrested at
the address was unhurt.

Five other people were arrested in the raids - which included Averill Road,
Fulham - and were this afternoon being questioned at secure police stations in
the London area.

The dead man was shot by officers from Scotland Yard's specialist SO19 firearms
unit at a house in Glenthorne Road, Hammersmith. He was taken to Charing Cross
Hospital but died two hours later.

Paramedics gave emergency treatment to the injured suspect on the street before
he was taken to hospital, where he died while undergoing emergency treatment.
There was confusion tonight over the exact circumstances in which the suspected
terrorist was shot. Scotland Yard refused to state whether he had fired shots at
police or whether he was armed.

A Scotland Yard spokesman refused to comment on the grounds that the matter was
the subject of an investigation to be supervised by the Police Complaints
Authority.

The explosives had already been loaded onto lorries and were virtually ready for
use. Detectives also recovered two booby-trap car bombs which they believe were
intended for assassinating senior government figures.

During a raid on an industrial estate in Cranford Way, Hornsey, police found the
majority of the explosives and 10 sophisticated timers, three Kalashnikovs, two
handguns and other bomb-making equipment such as detonators and detonator cord.
They also recovered 2lb of Semtex.

It is understood that anti-terrorist

officers tracked the two seized lorries from Northern Ireland across Britain to
London.

The raids, the biggest anti-IRA operation in London for several years, involved
local police, Special Branch, anti-terrorist officers and MI5. City Police
firearms officers and 10 mainland police forces were also involved.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness, who is in charge of the Yard's
anti-terrorist operation, said: 'The significant quantity of explosives had been
placed in boxes and, with a minimum of extra work, was ready for use in probably
as large vehicle bombs similar to the ones at Manchester and Canary Wharf.'

He said the indications were that the bombs were destined for economic targets,
probably in London, which would cause grave loss of life, economic impact and
massive damage.

Mr Veness said the operation had been launched several weeks ago and involved
close co-operation between anti-terrorist officers, the security services and
the various mainland police forces involved.

All the addresses raided were today being minutely searched and combed by police
forensic specialists for evidence of bomb-making activity. Police said no
officers or members of the public were injured in the gunfire.

Today's raids demonstrate just how fruitful has been the close co-operation
between the Anti-terrorist Squad and the security service, MI5.

In July Scotland Yard said it had thwarted a major campaign targeting gas, water
and electricity installations after raids in South London. They discovered a
room full of components for up to 36 bombs but no explosives were found. Seven
men were arrested.

The IRA broke its ceasefire with the huge Docklands bomb which killed two people
in February this year.

Its most recent attack on the mainland was the city centre bomb in Manchester in
June, which devastated a large area of the shopping centre.

The Docklands bomb was followed by an attempt to destroy Hammersmith Bridge and
Britain's biggest IRA blast


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BLOOD STAINS LEAD DOWN THE STEPS OF THE HOUSE IN WEST LONDON WHERE THE
AIRASUSPECT WAS SHOT TODAY AS A FORENSIC EXPERT IN MASK WORKS AT THE SCENE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                               September 23, 1996

Major pledges to carry on search for Ulster peace;
YARD FOILS MASSIVE TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 854 words



JOHN MAJOR vowed that the Government would continue to back the Northern Ireland
peace process - and said today's massive find of explosives and weapons made a
mockery of Sinn Fein's claim to join the peace drive.

In a statement from Downing Street, the Prime Minister said: "I am absolutely
delighted by the success of the security authorities in foiling the IRA's latest
plans to attack the people of this country as they go about their daily lives.
The police and security service deserve all our congratulations for this
important operation.

"The discovery of these plans and the huge stocks of explosives and arms put in
their proper context professions of peaceful intentions by Sinn Fein's leaders
and speculation about a renewed IRA ceasefire.

"It remains impossible to reconcile Sinn Fein's rhetoric for peace with the
IRA's preparations for murder. The British Government remain fully committed to
the Belfast negotiations aimed at a comprehensive political settlement in
Northern Ireland.

"Northern Ireland's future will be settled by democratic, peaceful discussion,
not by violence or threats of violence. It is time Sinn Fein and the IRA learned
that lesson once and for all."

The news that the IRA was on the brink of a terrorist "spectacular" came as no
surprise to the politicians bogged down in the weary effort to make peace in
Northern Ireland.

It was also no surprise in the Hall of Mirrors that passes for a peace process
that a mainland attack was widely seen as a necessary prelude to a fresh IRA
ceasefire.

Hopes of a new truce surfaced earlier this month amid reports that the IRA's
supreme body, the General Army Convention, was to meet for the first time in a
decade.

The widely-held theory was that the Convention would give Gerry Adams and Martin
McGuinness of Sinn Fein the go-ahead to seek to join the peace talks, backed by
a renewed "end to violence". There was, though, an equally wide belief that the
IRA would bomb at least once more. The Ulster Unionist's security spokesman, MP
Ken Maginnis, said today that such a bombing would have a twin purpose - to
"soften up" the Government and reassure the IRA's hard men before a new truce.

The peace talks themselves have all but vanished from the headlines since they
got under way in June. They became bogged down almost at once over procedure and
deep divisions between the Unionists and their allies, and the nationalist SDLP.

They were also handicapped by the shadow of Sinn Fein, ruled out from the
conference room when the last IRA ceasefire was blown apart in February by the
Docklands bomb.

There were some modest signs of progress when the parties broke at the end of
July and the unionists and nationalists finally agreed on ground rules for the
discussions.

The real problem, though, remained - the complete divide over the requirement
that before Sinn Fein could join talks, the IRA must begin to hand over its
arsenal of explosives and weaponry.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 4, 1996, Friday

'Random' attacks prompt Seoul to fear of wave of terror

BYLINE: Richard Lloyd Parry

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL; Page  15

LENGTH: 527 words


In other circumstances, you might have taken them as no more than random acts of
urban violence, writes Richard Lloyd Parry.

Late on Tuesday night, in two of the most lawless cities in East Asia, a pair of
expatriates were savagely attacked. The first incident occurred in Vladivostok,
the crime-racked port of the Russian Far East, where a 54-year-old man was found
bludgeoned to death on the stairs of his apartment block.

The second took place in Phnom Penh, equally notorious capital of Cambodia,
where a 46-year-old hotel executive lies in a coma after being shot in his car
by an unidentified motorcyclist. The crimes were separated by 2,000 miles, but
several things conspire to cast them in a sinister light.

For a start, neither man appears to have been robbed, although the wallet of the
Vladivostok victim, a diplomat, contained the cash equivalent of $ 1,000. Most
suspicious of all, the attacks were both carried out on South Koreans, at a time
when tension has escalated between North and South Korea. The suspicion is that
the attacks may be the latest shots in a dangerous confrontation between the
Cold War rivals.

The latest troubles began a fortnight ago with the discovery of a washed- up
North Korean submarine on the coast of South Korea. It had apparently come to
grief while engaged on a spying mission, and 23 of its crew have so far been
killed or captured. Pyongyang claimed, implausibly, that the sub had simply
drifted off course. Seoul insists equally unconvincingly that the craft was the
precursor of a full-scale invasion.

With the mediation of the United States, the North had over the last two years
been making faltering steps towards better relations with the outside world.
Last year, South Korea grudgingly provided food aid after shortages; three weeks
ago, the Stalinist North hosted an unprecedented investment forum in an effort
to promote a free-trade zone. This week, however, the South Korean president,
Kim Young Sam, announced that further aid and negotiation were out of the
question, and put the forces on high alert.

At a meeting with the American-led United Nations Command in the demilitarised
zone, the North Koreans threatened "serious consequences" for the deaths of
their submarine crew.

Thus, the suspicion about the two recent attacks. The murder of the diplomat in
Vladivostok, Choi Duk Kun, is particularly ominous. Police said publicly that
political assassination was unlikely, but privately, they point to intriguing
circumstantial evidence: three men of Asian appearance were seen running away;
Vladivostok is only 100 miles from the North Korean border, and one of Mr Choi's
responsibilities at the consulate was to monitor North Korean affairs.

Even if there was no connection, the peninsula is in for a tense and dangerous
few months. A Northern army of more than 1 million faces South Korean and US
forces across the demilitarised zone. With inferior equipment, and shortages of
food and fuel, a full-scale attack would appear suicidal.  But, according to a
Japanese diplomat in Tokyo: "The danger is that either side will push the other
just too far."


LOAD-DATE: October 04, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Independent Print Ltd

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            October 4, 1996, Friday

Dole attacks Clinton for backing Irish 'terrorist'

BYLINE: Martin Fletcher and Tom Rhodes in Washington

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 534 words


BOB DOLE opened a new line of attack on President Clinton yesterday by
condemning his support for Gerry Adams, the Sinn Fein leader. The President
"invited a terrorist to the White House" but he had failed to secure peace in
Northern Ireland, Mr Dole said in Tennessee.

Mr Clinton claimed success in Northern Ireland, but "these claims of great
strides towards peace appear unwarranted in the face of increased violence and
terrorism in Northern Ireland and England," Mr Dole said.

The attack, part of a broader assault on Mr Clinton's foreign policy, marked the
first time Mr Dole had sought to exploit the President's decisions to admit Mr
Adams to America, invite him to the White House and let Sinn Fein raise funds in
America despite vigorous British opposition.

It is a tempting line of attack but also a risky one. The White House insists
that Mr Clinton's support enabled Mr Adams to bring about the IRA's 18-month
ceasefire, although that is at least arguable. What is indisputable is that
several Republican congressmen were among those who had pressured Mr Clinton to
admit Mr Adams.

During the Republican Party convention in San Diego in August, James Baker, the
former Secretary of State, delighted Unionists, infuriated Sinn Fein and
surprised the British Government by declaring that Mr Clinton's support for Mr
Adams had left Anglo-American relations in their worst state since the War of
Independence.

Mr Dole, who is increasingly successful at depicting Mr Clinton as a diehard
liberal, launched a further assault on the President after the White House
refused to release a memorandum from two drug enforcement officials that was
said to be highly critical of his anti-drugs strategy.

Louis Freeh, the Director of the FBI, and Thomas Constantine, the head of the
Drug Enforcement Administration, sent the letter to Mr Clinton in April last
year. It was reported to contain complaints about the "lack of any true
leadership" in stemming the overwhelming tide of heroin and cocaine, which Mr
Freeh is said to have compared to an "all-conquering army".

The White House decision to claim executive privilege and not to release the
document came as Republicans in Congress were investigating accusations that the
Administration had buried a further report commissioned by the Pentagon. This
also suggested that Mr Clinton's drugs policy had failed.

Jack Quinn, the White House counsel, said Mr Clinton had decided not to comply
with the subpoena because the note had been prepared for "the President and for
the President alone". He said it contained confidential law enforcement options.

Mr Dole, who has made drugs and drugs-related crime a key element of his
election campaign, accused Mr Clinton of hiding behind the shield of his office.
"Release the memo, Mr President. The American people have the right to know the
full details of your failure in the war against drugs," he said.

The former senator has recently been painting Mr Clinton as a liberal who has
moved steadily to the centre to appease a conservative electorate. As a result,
44 per cent of Americans now view him as a liberal President compared with 36
per cent in August.


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           October 10, 1996, Thursday

FACE OF IRA ARMY BOMBER;
TRACK DOWN THE ARMY BASE BOMBER;
PHOTOFIT OF SUSPECT IN TERRORIST ATTACK ON LISBURN ARMY BARRACKS

BYLINE: John Kierans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 7

LENGTH: 787 words


This is the man who could lead police to the IRA gang who bombed the Lisburn
Army barracks.

A senior detective leading the hunt for the terrorists last night named the
bearded Provo gofer as Public Enemy No 1.

Det Ch Supt Derek Martindale said the hooded man paid pounds 1,800 for the
getaway car used in the attack which he described as "a deliberate attempt at
mass murder."

Eight victims were still in hospital last night, two on the critical list and
two others described as seriously ill.

Police say callous terror godfathers meticulously planned their attack FOUR
MONTHS ago. All three cars used in the bombing raid were driven into the base
through the main gate.

Detectives declined to say if they'd been in the camp before. The disclosure
will infuriate

Loyalist paramilitaries wavering on the brink of abandoning their ceasefire.

The bombers used two Volvo estates, each bought for pounds 5,000 cash.

A gold-coloured Volvo, registration number VX14162, exploded at 4.30 on Monday
afternoon in the army camp car park. It was bought three months ago from a
Lisburn garage owner.

A red Volvo, registration NIB8939, was left 100 yards away outside the medical
block. It exploded 15 minutes later.

The second car was bought in east Belfast in June through a local paper.

Both bombs had about 700lbs of home-made explosives. The blue Volkswagen Passat
used for the gang's escape was bought by the bearded terrorist at a car auction
in Carryduff on September 23.

A witness said he was about 40, 5ft 7ins and had dark hair.

He wore dark glasses but detectives believe he was disguised. The getaway car
was burned out on the Poleglass estate in west Belfast as the first device
exploded. Cops believe it was driven off base only minutes before.  Yesterday
officers examining video security tapes refused to say if they'd caught any of
the bombers on film.

Chf Supt Martindale said: "The bombers knew what they were doing. They wanted to
cause the maximum number of deaths. The way they set the two bombs with a
15-minute delay is sickening. Many of the injured were hurt a second time as
they were ferried to the medical centre."

PROVO godfathers said last night that Diarmuid O'Neill, shot dead by police in
London last month, was an IRA member.

A statement said: "We delayed confirmation in respectful consideration of his
parents' publicly-expressed request for privacy at the burial of their son."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WANTED: A photofit of the beared Provo; BOMB CAR 1: The gold estate
exploded at 4.30 in the army car park;; BOMB CAR 2: The red Volvo exploded at
4.45 outside a medical block

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 12, 1996

Terror group in 'dry run' attack on building

LENGTH: 357 words


IRA linked to Forum bomb plot

Martina Purdy and

Mark Simpson

THE IRA has conducted a 'dry run' for possible bomb attacks on the Northern
Ireland Forum, it emerged last night.

Suspected IRA men were spotted inside the visitor's gallery overlooking the
Forum chamber while some of Ulster's leading politicians were meeting.

Peter Robinson, DUP deputy leader, said he was aware that at least two known IRA
suspects had been in the chamber or in the vicinity of the Belfast Interpoint
building last Friday.

'They have clearly targeted the building,' said the East Belfast MP. 'Security
has been stepped up in the last week.' A well-placed source said it is thought
the IRA were conducting a 'dry-run' for a possible bomb attack.

Every week, around 60 delegates - including the Ulster Unionist, DUP and
loyalist political leaderships - converge on the Interpoint building. Asked if
he was aware of the IRA threat, Gary McMichael, leader of the Ulster Democratic
Party, also confirmed he had been told of last week's incident.

He welcomed moves to step up security. 'I am sure this incident will have
concentrated people's minds.' The IRA's ability to penetrate Thiepval Army
barracks last week demonstrates just how vulnerable other premises could be to
attack. The symbolism of an attack on the Forum, where unionists fought to have
the Union flag displayed, would not be lost on the IRA. Sinn Fein has branded
the Forum an 'embryonic Stormont' and refused to send any of its 17 elected
delegates to the body. The SDLP pulled out in July in protest over Drumcree.

Sinn Fein remains excluded from the talks in the absence of an IRA ceasefire,
but is still free to take up seats in the Forum. The '100m Interpoint building
houses a number of businesses, employing both Catholics and Protestants, who
could be caught up in any possible blast.

However, the view in political circles was that the IRA's aim would be to issue
a warning and blow up the building, rather than kill those inside. Eight
political parties attend the Forum, including the Alliance Party, the Women's
Coalition and the Labour party.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1996 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                            October 20, 1996, Sunday

TERROR ATTACK;
Man seriously hurt when he was attacked by about 25 people in Edinburgh at
weekend

SECTION: Page 25

LENGTH: 59 words


A man was seriously hurt when he and two pals were attacked by a gang of about
25 people at the weekend.

Now police are treating the assault as attempted murder.

The victim was confronted by a crowd outside the Central Bar, in Leith Walk,
Edinburgh, and a fight broke out.

Police have appealed for witnesses but have not named the injured man.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           October 22, 1996, Tuesday

TERROR ALERT AS IRA 'ANNIVERSARY' ATTACK FEARED

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson and John Deane, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 712 words


The IRA could be planning to unleash a "spectacular" attack on the mainland
within weeks, security services fear.  The terrorists are thought to be
determined to avenge last month's fatal shooting by police of their London
operative Diarmuid O'Neill, and to be mindful of significant forthcoming dates
in the Republican calendar.  The threat will mean particularly tight security
around tomorrow's State Opening of Parliament.  Scotland Yard warned that there
was "a continuing campaign of violence" by terrorists.  The seriousness with
which the Metropolitan Police regards the threat was emphasised by the head of
specialist operations at Scotland Yard, assistant commissioner David Veness.  "I
regret that the threat is likely to be in the long term," said Mr Veness.
"Looking at the period ahead, we are entering dangerous months." Security
sources in the province confirmed that the RUC and Army have been alerted about
the threat of more IRA attacks.  As well as the possibility of a major bombing,
the security forces are on guard for any attempt to assassinate a high-profile
political figure. It emerged today that personal protection for a number of VIPs
in Northern Ireland has been strengthened.  An attack could be timed to coincide
with one of several significant anniversaries looming in the Provisional
calendar such as:
    November 7 - 22nd anniversary of the bombing at Woolwich, south east London,
when two people were killed and more than 30 injured in an attack on a pub near
an Army barracks.
    November 8 - the 9th anniversary of the outrage at Enniskillen when an IRA
bomb at a Remembrance Day service killed 11 and injured 63.
    November 15 - some 11 years after the signing of the Anglo-Irish Agreement.
    November 29 - the 22nd anniversary of the introduction of the Prevention of
Terrorism Act, the 1974 Government response to the Birmingham pub bombing of
November 21 which killed 21 people. The Act outlawed membership, support and
assistance for the IRA or the Irish National Liberation Army.
    January 30 - slightly further afield, the 25th anniversary of Bloody Sunday,
when British Paratroopers shot dead 13 people taking part in a banned civil
rights march in Londonderry.

Peter Robinson, the East Belfast MP and deputy leader of the Rev Ian Paisley's
Democratic Unionist Party, warned that the IRA was capable of striking at any
time.  He told PA News: "The potential for an IRA bomb here or in London is
obviously great. It is fairly significant that the IRA quite often in the past
attached their bombs in London to political events.  "It could be linked to the
renewal of emergency legislation going through the House of Commons or a party
conference.  "They have always tried to link it to some political event to give
it added significance from their point of view. The danger is there." A clearly
concerned Scotland Yard stressed: "Police and other agencies involved in the
counter-terrorist effort remain alert and are doing everything they can to
minimise the threat." The Metropolitan Police urged anyone who thought they
might have information relating to terrorism to contact their anti-terrorist
hotline on 0800 789 321.  In Ulster, one well-placed source told PA News that a
new attack would not necessarily herald a new IRA ceasefire.  He said: "There
has been a general warning which was issued quite recently. There have been
noises all right, but I doubt very much if we are talking about a second
ceasefire.  "Nobody here can predict with any certainty about what is up ahead
but the omens don't look too promising do they?" It is understood the extra
security precautions for some VIPs are not linked to any new IRA threat, but to
possible attacks by the dissident republican group, the Continuity Army Council,
which left 25Olb of homemade explosives in an abandoned car near the centre of
Belfast late last month.  It also emerged today that senior RUC officers in
Belfast believe that the 10 tonnes of explosives discovered in London last month
when O'Neill was killed were destined to be used in attacks which would have
been timed to coincide with this month's IRA bombing of the Army's Northern
Ireland HQ at Lisburn, Co Antrim, which killed one soldier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                           October 24, 1996, Thursday

BRIDGE MANIACS HURL ROCK THROUGH FAMILY'S SUNROOF;
TERROR 'BOMB' ATTACK NO5;
MOTORIST INJURED AS THUGS HURL ROCK ONTO CAR FROM BRIDGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 374 words


A family escaped death by inches when callous thugs "bombed" their car with
concrete.

It was the fifth in a spate of sickening attacks which have left one motorist
fighting for his life in hospital.

In the most recent incident the rock smashed through the sunroof of Gerald
Clark's Fiesta. It hit him on the head and narrowly missed his two
grandchildren, aged five and two, who were asleep on the back seat.

Gerald, 48, said yesterday: "The people who did this were sub-human.  It was
like an explosion. The glass hit us and the car swerved. I blacked out for a
second. Luckily the kids were lying down.

"The rock could have hit them in the face if they'd been sitting up.  The
concrete hit the roof just before - that absorbed a bit of the impact.

"Without that I could have been dead. We're lucky to be alive." Gerald was
driving under a bridge on the A1231 in Washington, Tyne and Wear, when the yobs
struck.

It was the fourth attack in the area in two days and has similarities to an
incident on the M3 in Hampshire a week ago.

That attack left Simon Willmott, 22, critically ill after concrete smashed
through his windscreen.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR TARGET: Ford Fiesta

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Press Association

                           November 7, 1996, Thursday

MEN QUIZZED OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE:  Deric Henderson, PA News

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 68 words


Police were tonight questioning a number of men in connection with terrorist
attacks in the Greater Belfast area. The RUC confirmed the arrests but refused
to comment on what the men were being held for.  But it is understood inquiries
could be linked to the IRA's no warning bomb attack on the army's Northern
Ireland HQ on October 7.  One soldier died and more than 30 other people were
injured.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1996 The Press Association Limited

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 11, 1996

MP's move to thwart terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 157 words


TORY MP Nigel Waterson is hoping to pilot a Bill through the Commons to stop
foreigners using Britain as a base to plan terrorist activities and other
serious offences abroad.

His Bill would also enable action against international fraudsters, organised
football hooligans, and drug barons based in Britain.

Mr Waterson, MP for Eastbourne, came fourth in the ballot for MPs to have a
chance to get legislation on to the Statute Book.

His Bill, which he will present to the Commons next week, has Government
backing.

He said last night: "My Bill will deter potential terrorists from operating
here, but it will not prevent us harbouring genuine dissidents from oppressive
regimes, nor stop them undertaking genuine political opposition."

His Bill would give British courts the right to prosecute only if the activity
involved was an offence both in Britain and the country where the act was
planned to take place.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1996 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          November 16, 1996, Saturday

RAID TERROR OF TEACHER;
NURSEY TEACHER ATTACKED BY BURGLAR AT SCHOOL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 160 words


A Nursery teacher was battered about the head by a hammer-wielding burglar she
disturbed in a classroom yesterday.

The attack happened just an hour before lessons were due to start at Benson
infant and junior school in Winson Green, Birmingham.

The raider snatched the 42-year-old teacher's bag. Last night his victim was
"comfortable" in hospital, but in deep shock.

Police called it "a particularly vicious" assault.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          November 20, 1996, Wednesday

ARE YOU BOMB-PROOF?;
INSURE AGAINST TERRORIST THREAT;
HOW TO INSURE AGAINST TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Kevan Reilly

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 480 words


Insurers are urging businesses to arm themselves against the threat of terrorist
attack.

Hundreds of companies were caught without insurance in this year's Canary Wharf
and Manchester bombings which caused more than pounds 500 million damage.

Experts reckon around a third of firms in Canary Wharf had no terrorism
insurance.

In Manchester damage ranged from pounds 25,000 - to pounds 60 million for one
department store alone.

Risk consultants Alexander & Alexander believe companies should protect
themselves with more than just insurance for property and contents.

Companies should consider business interruption cover which pays out if income
is affected because of damage to premises.

It's also possible to take out "loss of attraction" insurance which will
compensate if a bombing drives customers away from an area.

"The message for all businesses is to take action now to minimise the financial
damage of a terrorist incident," says Alexander & Alexander chairman Geoff
Whitehead.

The firm has produced a check-list which helps companies boost security against
the IRA as well as burglars.

The step-by-step guide outlines the potential pitfalls any firm faces and
suggest ways to tighten up security.

Copies of the checklist are available from Alexander & Alexander's HQ at 10
Devonshire Square, London EC2M 4LE, or other offices around the country.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RISK FACTOR: The IRA bomb caused mayhem in Manchester's Arndale Centre

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          December 18, 1996, Wednesday

ALTAR VANDAL'S TERROR ATTACK;
WORSHIPPERS ATTACKED AS VANDALS DESECRATE ALTAR OF WESTMINSTER CATHEDRAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 133 words


Two worshippers were attacked yesterday when a vandal desecrated the altar of
Westminster Cathedral.

The thug smashed the cross and damaged six candlesticks before punching a woman
and hitting a man with a pair of pliers.

A spokesman at the London cathedral said: "It's not what you expect to see in a
place of worship."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 18, 1996

YARD GRILLS THE JACKAL OVER TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Kate Watson-Smyth

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words


OFFICERS from Scotland Yard yesterday questioned the jailed terrorist, Carlos
the Jackal, about the shooting of a British businessman and the bombing of a
London bank during the 1970s.

The three officers interviewed Carlos at a Paris jail about the attempted
assassination in December 1973 of Joseph Edward Seiff, late chairman of Marks &
Spencer, outside his London home, and the bombing of the Hapoalim bank in London
in January 1974.

But Carlos, whose real name is Illich Ramirez Sanchez, refused to admit
involvement and dismissed the investigations as "Zionist provocations", it was
disclosed last night.

In 1979, Carlos reportedly told Al Watan al Arabi, a Paris-based magazine, that
he had been responsible for both incidents.  But since his arrest in August
1994, he has claimed the interview was a fake.

Sieff, who was vice-president of the Zionist Federation in Britain which gave
aid to Israel, survived after a gunman shot him in the face. The Popular Front
for the Liberation of Palestine, which Carlos backed at the time, claimed
responsibility for the shooting.

Last month, Carlos refused to leave his cell to meet the British investigators,
complaining of his treatment by prison officers.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          December 21, 1996, Saturday

COP SHOT IN ATTACK ON LEADING UNIONIST;
TERRORISTS ATTACK GUARDS INSIDE CHILDRENS HOSPITAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 480 words


Republican terrorists last night shot and wounded a cop inside a kiddies'
intensive care ward.

The pistol-toting gunmen crept into the Children's Hospital at Belfast's Royal
Victoria to lie in wait for a leading unionist politician.

DUP boss Nigel Dodds, 37, has kept a six-week vigil at the bedside of his son
Andrew.

The six-year-old, who suffers from spina bifida and water in the head, is
recovering from surgery after collapsing with a mystery illness last Saturday.

The gunmen, wearing wigs and with their faces disguised, were spotted by one of
three RUC bodyguards assigned to protect Mr Dodds.

When the cop alerted colleagues using a CIA-style sleeve mike the gunmen opened
up firing four shots, slightly wounding him in the foot.

The two assailants fled on foot.

Last night the RUC man was being treated in the accident and emergency wing of
the hospital which lies close to the heart of the IRA's Falls Road stronghold.
His injuries were described as "slight."

Mr Dodds was at the hospital comforting wife Diane who has spent every evening
for the past six weeks holding hands with Andrew. The qualified barrister is a
former Lord Mayor and is general secretary of Ian Paisley's hardline Unionist
party.

He told cops of his plans to visit the West Belfast hospital every night and
security advisers warned him his life could be under threat because he would be
straying into the IRA's heartland

But Mr Dodds insisted and police chiefs detailed three men to protect him.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Daily Mirror

                          December 21, 1996, Saturday

COP SHOT IN ATTACK ON TOP UNIONIST;
TERRORISTS SHOOT POLICE GUARD IN CHILDRENS HOSPITAL

BYLINE: Conor Hanna

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 680 words


Republican terrorists last night shot and wounded a cop inside a kiddies'
intensive care ward.

The pistol-toting gunmen crept into the Children's Hospital at Belfast's Royal
Victoria to lie in wait for a leading unionist politician.

DUP boss Nigel Dodds, 37, (above) has kept a six-week vigil at the bedside of
his son Andrew.

The six-year-old, who suffers from spina bifida and water in the head, is
recovering from surgery after collapsing with a mystery illness last Saturday.

The gunmen, wearing wigs and with their faces disguised, were spotted by one of
three RUC bodyguards assigned to protect Mr Dodds.

When the cop alerted colleagues using a CIA-style sleeve mike the gunmen fired
four shots, slightly wounding him in the foot.

The two assailants fled on foot.

Last night the RUC man was being treated in the accident and emergency wing of
the hospital which lies close to the heart of the IRA's Falls Road stronghold.
His injuries were described as "slight."

A hospital official said: "All our staff are horrified by this disgraceful
incident."

Mr Dodds was at the hospital comforting wife Diane who has spent every evening
for the past six weeks holding hands with Andrew.

The qualified barrister is a former Lord Mayor and is general secretary of Ian
Paisley's hardline Unionist party.

He told cops of his plans to visit the West Belfast hospital every night and
security advisers warned him his life could be under threat because he would be
straying into the IRA's heartland

But Mr Dodds insisted and police chiefs detailed three men to protect him.

Last night Mr Dodds' DUP colleagues said they were repulsed by the attempt on
his life.

East Belfast MP Peter Robinson said: "This was an assassination attempt, a bid
to execute one of our senior members.

"It's sickening they should target Mr Dodds while visiting his son. It shows
clearly that the IRA is still war hungry and out to kill."

The shooting was the first involving an RUC man for two-and-a-half years.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1996 MGN Ltd.

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           December 22, 1996, Sunday

BOMB TERROR;
Cops foiled a bomb attack aimed at Christmas shoppers yesterday in France

SECTION: Page 27

LENGTH: 56 words


Cops foiled a bomb attack aimed at Christmas shoppers yesterday.

They defused a 6.6lb bomb in a busy post office in Marseille, France.

A police source said the terrorists targeted the post office because it would be
crowded.

Algerian Muslim extremists or Corsican separatists are suspected to have carried
out the attack.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1996 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                           December 22, 1996, Sunday

IRA hospital attack threatens to unleash new loyalist terror

BYLINE: Henry McDonald and Liam Clarke

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 375 words


LOYALIST terrorist leaders in Northern Ireland say that their ceasefire, which
began two years ago, can no longer hold.

They predict that a decision to resume their campaign of violence will be made
in the next few days at a meeting of the Combined Loyalist Military Command, an
umbrella body for Ulster's loyalist terror groups.

Leading members and supporters of the Ulster Volunteer Force and the Ulster
Defence Association say that violence seems inevitable after Friday's IRA gun
attack at the Royal Belfast Hospital for Sick Children.

Two IRA gunmen fired at two RUC officers guarding Nigel Dodds, a former lord
mayor of Belfast and member of Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionist party, as he
visited his seriously ill seven-year-old son. One officer was slightly injured
and a stray bullet hit an empty incubator.

Loyalists immediately said that the attack was provocative. The UDA in
particular expressed outrage. Its leadership met last weekend to discuss
returning to violence. Now it is expected to request a formal meeting of the
CLMC.

A UDA leader from west Belfast, where the hospital shooting took place, said:
"There will definitely be a response to this. The days of loyalists getting
patted on the head and told they are good boys for keeping the ceasefire are
over."

Another member of the UDA's so-called inner council, the terrorist
organisation's ruling body, added: "So much for all the talk of the IRA and Sinn
Fein wanting peace.

"We can't take this all the time."

Billy Hutchinson, of the Progressive Unionist party, which is linked to the UVF,
said: "I will personally be arguing for no return to vi olence but, speaking
realistically, I believe there will be a response to this and unfortunately I
mean a physical response."

David Ervine, the PUP leader, said: "My belief is that it is an attempt to
provoke loyalists to retaliate.

"My fear is that it is more than likely to succeed."

There was said to be considerable anger among UDA prisoners, who have a great
influence over the ceasefire, about the shooting.

The RUC has confirmed that they have recovered a car which may have been used in
Friday's shooting. A man is also being interviewed in connection with the
attack.


LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 8, 1997, Wednesday

BUSINESS AS PER NORMAL;
EVITA MODELS REFUSE TO LET TERRORIST ATTACK CALL OF THEIR PHOTO SHOOT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 307 words


These knock-out Evita girls refused to let a terrorist attack knock out their
fashion show.

The five models were due to strut their stuff in the trendy Eva Peron look when
Provo gunmen upset their Monday photo call in Belfast.

But yesterday they defied the IRA, put on Madonna make-up and Forties inspired
outfits and brought colour back to city streets darkened by the shadow of
terror.

Wearing dazzling cascades of jewellery, tailored suits and flowing ballgowns,
the girls won admiring glances from patrolling police and troops.

The Evita style, unveiled at the Jourdan Boutique, was timed to tie in with the
opening of the hit movie.

Fashion expert Pat Jordan said: "The styles in the film are taking the fashion
world by storm.

"This was Belfast's first chance to see them and we couldn't let a little thing
like a security alert spoil the show."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEFIANT: Two of the Evita models who paraded the 1940s look yesterday;

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                January 10, 1997

Terror attacks: Six held

LENGTH: 107 words


FOUR men were today being questioned about the Thiepval Army Barracks bombing
and the rocket attack on a court security post in Belfast. Meanwhile, two men
arrested soon after Monday's rocket attack outside the Royal Courts of Justice
were still in custody today.

It is understood one of the four others who have also been detained since the
first two arrests was taken into custody early today. All six are believed to
come from west Belfast and the Markets area. A police spokesman confirmed a
number of men were being questioned about serious crimes in the Greater Belfast
area and that the arrests had been made this week.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1997 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                                January 13, 1997

LONDON LETTER BOMBS ATTACK;
Two hurt as terrorists send four devices to Arab newspaper HQ

BYLINE: Elaine Carlton;Gervase Webb

SECTION: Pg. 1;2

LENGTH: 920 words



TWO SECURITY men were injured today, one seriously, when a letter bomb exploded
at the west London office of a leading Arab newspaper.

Three other bombs delivered to the same office were made safe by anti-terrorist
officers using controlled explosions.

The first package, containing a small amount of high explosive, went off as mail
was being sorted in offices housing the Al Hayat newspaper, one of Saudi
Arabia's most respected Arabic newspapers.

The blast happened at 9.10am in the basement post room in the Kensington Centre
on the Hammersmith Road. Sorting clerk Barry Roche, 46, from Paddington, was
thought to be holding the package when it exploded.

Mr Roche, who has two children, was burned and cut on his face, stomach, chest
and arms. He was in a stable condition this afternoon in Charing Cross hospital
although he may lose the sight of one eye.

It was revealed this afternoon that Mr Roche only survived because although the
bomb's detonator ignited, it failed to set off the explosive.

A forensic officer at the scene said: "He is very lucky to be alive. If the main
bit of the bomb had gone off, he would certainly have been killed and there
would have been a lot more injuries and damage."

One of Mr Roche's colleagues, Andy McKenzie, 35, from Wimbledon, who was
standing nearby when the package went off, was treated for shock and damaged
eardrums.

The newspaper's editor, Jihad Al Khazen, said: "We invested in scanning machines
that cost three or four

thousand pounds each. We had them all over the basement but we don't know what
happened, whether the letter just blew up or if Mr Roche tried to open it."

A worker at the paper, Khaldoun Elcheik, said: "I was just coming in this
morning when I heard a big bang and I saw Barry coming towards me covered in
blood."

A Scotland Yard spokesman said the blast bore all the hallmarks of a terrorist
device. Three other packages were found by anti-terrorist branch officers at the
scene and later neutralised with controlled explosions. The devices were not
being linked to the IRA, said police sources, who indicated that an
Egyptian-based Islamic extremist group may have been responsible.

The same group is thought to be behind five similar bombs sent to Al Hayat's
Washington office shortly after Christmas.

The paper's senior political editor, Kamran Karradachi, said at the scene at the
Kensington Centre that he was not surprised by the attack.

"Our office in Washington has recently received letter bombs," he said.

"Last time we got them before they exploded; this time our security staff have
been injured.

"We don't know who is behind these letter bombs but the last ones came from
Egypt. We are carrying out investigations in Egypt and Washington to find out
who is behind them.

"We don't think our newspaper takes a stance which angers people as it allows
different points of view. We would not consider closing down because of this."


LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 16, 1997, Thursday

HOODED TERROR;
MASKED RAIDERS CAUSE ANGINA ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 106 words


A terrified man had an angina attack after two masked raiders burst into his
home.

The 59-year-old was sitting in his house on Huntlands Estate, Halesowen, when a
bogus woman caller asked if she could retrieve her grandson's rugby ball from
their garden. As the man went out of the back door he was attacked.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            January 19, 1997, Sunday

London terror attack thwarted

BYLINE: Ulla Plon, Copenhagen and Stephen Grey

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 262 words


SEVEN members of an extreme right-wing terrorist group involved in a plot to
send letter bombs to addresses in London were arrested yesterday following a
series of raids by armed police in Denmark.

Scotland Yard had worked undercover with the Danes in an investigation of the
plot, which police sources say was linked to a feud within the British neo-Nazi
Combat 18 group. The targets in London are understood to have been two
right-wing activists and a journalist.

A Danish police officer was shot and wounded during one of the raids. The
operation focused on a house in Copenhagen and the seaside village of Nivaa,
eight miles north. The raids followed a tip-off from police intelligence in
Germany.

Per Larsen, a police commander involved in the operation, said officers
discovered explosives and detonators. Three letter bombs, believed to have been
made in Denmark, were also intercepted in Malmo, Sweden. "They were disguised as
videotapes and were to be sent to addresses in London," said Larsen.

Kurt Jensen, head of Denmark's murder squad, said: "First indications are that
an extreme right-wing group is being controlled from abroad, with the intention
of hitting international targets."

A Scotland Yard source explained: "It appears that British members of Combat 18
have tried to arrange for this Danish group to target their rivals. There has
been an internal struggle, centring over the disappearance of money raised from
the sale of neo-Nazi skinhead records."

Six men and a woman, all aged between 20 and 22, were arrested.


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Times Newspapers Limited

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 20, 1997, Monday

MORTAR ATTACK OUTRAGE;
RUC CHIEFS COMMENT ON THE LATEST TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK ON A POLICE PATROL IN
NORTHERN IRELAND

BYLINE: Joe Gorrod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 214 words


RUC chiefs last night described the latest terrorist bomb attack on a police
patrol in Northern Ireland as a murderous attempt on officers and the public.

The IRA is determined to kill, said RUC boss Ronnie Flanagan.

Two cops on patrol in Downpatrick, Co Down, were the latest targets of a Provo
ambush. They and a passing woman motorist had an amazing escape when two mortar
shells were fired from the roadside.

The massive near-miss blasts shook the cars. No one was injured. Mr Flanagan
said: "The IRA continues to show murderous intent towards our officers and
callous disregard for the safety of everyone else.

"If the attacks go on, death will be the the inevitable result."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 20, 1997, Monday

PATROL ESCAPES 'MURDEROUS' PROVO MORTARS;
RUC CHIEFS COMMENT ON THE LATEST TERRORIST BOMB ATTACK ON A POLICE PATROL IN
NORTHERN IRELAND

BYLINE: Joe Gorrod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 454 words


RUC chiefs last night described the latest terrorist bomb attack on a police
patrol in Northern Ireland as a murderous attempt on officers and the public.

The IRA is determined to kill, said RUC boss Ronnie Flanagan.

Two cops on patrol in Downpatrick, Co Down, were the latest targets of a Provo
ambush. They and a passing woman motorist had an amazing escape when two mortar
shells were fired from the roadside.

The massive near-miss blasts shook the cars as the shells passed over and
exploded on the opposite banking. The blast showered shrapnel, rocks and mud on
the vehicles. No one was injured.

The woman managed to drive on into Downpatrick where she collapsed and needed
treatment for shock.

The attack came within yards of the spot where the IRA killed four soldiers in
the Ulster Defence Regiment in a massive landmine attack in 1990.

Mr Flanagan said: "The IRA continues to show murderous intent towards our
officers and callous disregard for the safety of everyone else.

"If the attacks go on, death will be the inevitable result."

Asst Chf Const Freddy Hall said at the scene of the explosion: "It's a miracle
no one was killed or seriously injured in this murderous attack."

"Dozens of families in Londonderry were evacuated and spent Saturday night in a
church hall when police foiled another mortar attack.

An unexploded shell was found after a patrol spotted two men acting suspiciously
in the Crawfords Square area.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 23, 1997, Thursday

I PULLED THE KNIFE OUT OF MY ASHLEIGH AND RAN AFTER THE ZOMBIE WHO HAD STABBED
HER. I WAS GOING TO KILL HIM;
EXCLUSIVE: MUM TELLS OF HER TERROR AND FURY AT ATTACK ON BABY;
MOTHER OF STABBED BABY TELLS OF NIGHTMARE ASSAULT

BYLINE: Emily Wilson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 2347 words


The teenage mum of stabbed baby Ashleigh Baker told last night how a mumbling
"zombie" grinned as he plunged a three-inch knife into the tot's tummy.

Speaking for the first time of Monday's ferocious assault, 16-year-old Norma
Baker said: "He leant over her and I thought he was going to tickle her feet or
squeeze her cheek, or something. I didn't react.

"Then I saw the knife in his left hand and the smile on his face. I stood frozen
as he stabbed the knife straight into Ashleigh.

"It was so quick. As he walked away, he looked me straight in the eye.  He was
laughing and grinning like he was enjoying himself.

"I saw the handle of the knife sticking out of Ashleigh's coat and began
screaming. I pulled the knife out and threw it on the ground."

At first, Norma thought her child was all right. She could see no blood.  Then
she was possessed by fury.

Sitting by one-year-old Ashleigh in hospital, she said: "She'd cried when
stabbed, but now she was quiet.

"Suddnely, I thought she was dead and I lost it. I pulled the knife out and
threw it on the ground. Then I grabbed it back and ran after the man.  I was
going to kill him.

"As I ran, I fell. Some friends grabbed me and pulled me back towards where it
happened.

"A receptionist from a nearby doctors' clinic had laid Ashleigh on a coat and
was stopping the blood with her hanky. Ashleigh was silent, but shaking. I just
sat there holding her hand until the ambulance came."

Last night, Ashleigh - nicknamed Sonic because of her red hair - was recovering
in a children's ward at Nottingham's Queen's Medical Centre hospital after
spending 30 hours in intensive care. She is stable.

The knife had plunged sideways into her, nicking the back of her stomach and
bruising a kidney.

A drip attached to her foot fed fluids and painkillers. A five-inch stitched
wound in her belly was being drained by a tube. Another tube, draining her
stomach, was taped to her nose and cheek.

Norma and Ashleigh's dad, Robert Tinsley, 17, have been constantly at her side.
Robert said: "She's such a fighter and so strong. At times, she's in terrible
pain. Yesterday, she developed a clot on a kidney. But she's so brave she hardly
cried.

"Doctors say the zip on her romper suit probably deflected the knife from her
vital organs. Otherwise she'd be dead."

Monday began as an ordinary day for Norma,who still lives with her parents -
Brian, 38, and Ann, 32 - above the Poet's Corner pub in Nottingham's Bridgeway
shopping centre.

Still shaking with emotion as she recalled her nightmare, she said: "Robert came
round for about half an hour in the morning to see Ashleigh. We played and
watched TV and, after lunch, I dressed Ashleigh in her red romper coat, put her
in her buggy and went out.

"I thought Robert might be in the Poet's pub, so I peered through the window but
couldn't see him.

"Then I popped round to the doctor's to make an appointment for Ashleigh to have
some jabs.

"Afterwards, I still couldn't see Robert in the pub, but spotted my friend
Michelle Gibson on the other side of the precinct with her baby, Curtis.  She
called me over for a chat. Neither of us knew where our boyfriends were, so we
decided to wait outside the Poet's for them. Ashleigh was asleep in her pram.

"We were standing there chatting when this man came past and started talking to
Michelle.

"He asked if we wanted to go for a drink in the pub saying he'd watch the babies
for us. Obviously, we said no. The way he was mumbling I thought he was a wino.

"Then he asked us if we were allowed to take babies into the pub. I said no and
he walked away.

"I said to Michelle 'He's a weirdo.' She said he was dodgy. But we didn't take
much notice. It was daylight and we were in a crowded place. We didn't feel in
any danger.

"Then the man walked straight back towards us. Like a zombie. He bent down - and
I stood there and watched him stab my baby. I couldn't stop crying.

"When the ambulancemen took Ashleigh's coat off, she started to cry and tried to
crawl. But she just flopped down. It was horrific.

"At the hospital, the doctors were waiting for us. Everything was ready for her.
They laid her down and began to undress her - but I couldn't watch anymore.

"A policewoman took me away to another room and let me cry on her. The next time
I saw Ashleigh she was all bandaged up."

Norma still can't get over the horror burned into her brain. She said: "Every
time I close my eyes, I see that man's hand lunging towards Ashleigh with the
knife. It's all I can think of.

"I broke down this morning after a nightmare about it. It all came back to me
clearly - his jeans with faded knees, his dirty beige jacket, his brown jumper
with a diamond pattern and his grubby white trainers.

"Everything except his face. I've no idea what his face looked like."

Robert - who lives at home with mum Susan and dad John, both 41 - was watching
TV at a friend's house at the time of the attack.

He said: "Someone from the pub came running in and told me my baby had been
stabbed. I ran in a daze towards the Poet's and saw police everywhere.

"I had to beg someone to take me to the hospital. When I got there, Norma had
calmed down and was sitting with Ashleigh, who had a mask over her face helping
her breathe.

"Straightaway, the doctors gave me a consent form to sign so they could widen
her wound to look inside for internal bleeding and damage.

"Ashleigh was in surgery for about two hours, but it seemed like a lifetime.  It
was absolute agony waiting not knowing how badly injured she was.

"Afterwards, she was taken to intensive care and we were allowed to see her.  It
was awful looking at her tiny little face and her body with all those tubes in
it.

"I can't explain what it's like to see your baby like that. She's so innocent,
so vulnerable. She has no idea why she's in pain and why she's got tubes stuck
in her.

"As we sat there, all I could think about was why hadn't I been there when she
was stabbed. Maybe I could have stopped it."

Neither Robert nor Norma can understand how the knifeman came to be wandering
loose in a crowded shopping centre.

Robert said: "Why wasn't he locked up? I just want someone to explain it to me
so I can understand. It makes no sense. Now we both want to see him dead. We
want him to suffer like our little baby has suffered."

Robert and Norma became childhood sweethearts at Nottingham's Farmborough
comprehensive school.

Norma realised she was pregnant shortly before her 15th birthday - but never
considered an abortion.

She said: "Robert and I had only been seeing each other for three months and had
split up by the time I realised I was pregnant.

"But I knew right from the start that I wanted to keep my baby. It just felt
right. Robert loves babies and we decided to make a go of it.

"Our relationship had been rocky to say the least. But we both spent all day,
every day with Ashleigh and no baby is more loved than she is.  It hasn't been
easy, but we've had a lot of support.

"Ashleigh is the best baby in the world. She's so cheerful and good- natured.
She's always slept through the night and didn't even cry when she was teething.

"Now she's the most important thing in our lives. What has happened to her has
made us realise what really matters."

On Tuesday mental patient Malcom Calladine, 38, was remanded in custody by
Nottingham magistrates accused of the tot's attempted murder.

Yesterday, The Mirror told how Calladine, a Section 3 patient normally kept in a
locked ward, slipped away unnoticed from Nottingham's Highbury Hospital on
Monday. Staff had no idea he was missing until told he was arrested.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FAMILY: Ashleigh with her parents;; SAFE: Mum Norma gives baby daughter
Ashleigh a loving kiss in hospital yesterday;; FIGHTER: Ashleigh, with drips
attached, recovers yesterday after 30 hours in intensive care;; Pictures: ARNOLD
SLATER

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 24, 1997, Friday

ATTACK TERROR OF HALF OUR ANGELS;
HALF OF EIRE NURSES HAVE BEEN ATTACKED

BYLINE: Conor Hanna

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 414 words


One in two nurses has suffered a serious assault at work, it has been revealed.

But only a tiny fraction of the dedicated "angels" have taken any time off as a
result of their ordeal.

The shock figures were unleashed yesterday by Irish Nurses Organisation bosses
plotting next month's nationwide strike.

The union's assistant general secretary Lenore Mrkwicka said: "This is firm
testament of the commitment Irish nurses give to their patients.

"Physical assault is common for nurses, who are regularly subjected to appalling
abuse by patients or their relatives."

The disturbing statistics formed part of an INO probe into the stresses and
strains of nursing in Ireland.

The report found that more than 46 per cent of nurses had been assaulted by
patients, relatives or intruders at work.

More than a third had been attacked in the past year and an amazing 77 per cent
had experienced serious physical or mental trauma as a result.

Ms Mrkwicka said of those attacked, only three per cent had taken time off work.
The INO union, which represents 21,000 nurses across Ireland, said the assaults
were only part of the hassle faced by nurses.

"They also have to deal with the strains of unpaid overtime and the lowest
hourly rate for any health service professional," she added.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 28, 1997

BOMB MAY WAKE SLEEPING ETHNIC CONFLICT FOR SERBIA;
The Milosevic regime was quick to use osovo's bomb attack to link street
protests to 'Albanian terrorists'.  But as the democracy rallies are mirrored in
local discontent, the government could find the strategy blows up in its face,
writesJulian Borger in Pristina

BYLINE: Julian Borger

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1414 words


THE car bomb which blasted the Pristina university chancellor and his driver
50ft across the road left a deep crater.  It also left Serbia's Kosovo region
wondering whether it would pay to keep President Slobodan Milosevic in power.

The chancellor, Radivoje Papovic, and the chauffeur, Nikola Lalic, both survived
the blast on January 16. But the attack on the two Serbs has poured salt on open
wounds in a region which is 90 per cent ethnic Albanian.  Not since Mr Milosevic
rose to power 10 years ago on the back of local Serb nationalism has Kosovo's
tense peace seemed so fragile.

Serbia's main opposition movement, Zajedno, having eroded the president's
authority with nine weeks of street protests against election rigging, fear he
may play "the Kosovo card", rallying paranoia and patriotism to his cause.

The Socialist regime was quick to link the blast to the rallies.  The Serb mayor
of Pristina, Dusan Simic, said that "Albanian terrorists" behind the attack
"receive support in Belgrade from those who have been trying to destabilise
Serbia for two months".

A fax was sent to Albanian-language newspapers in Pristina, claiming the bomb as
the work of the Kosovo Liberation Army, which has claimed responsibility for
assassinations of police and other government employees.

But no Albanian claims to have come across any "freedom fighters".

According to diplomats, whoever wrote the first two notes claiming
responsibility for the killings was not a native Albanian speaker.

The remote-controlled bomb attack was a sophisticated operation.  Sources said
the parked car used to hide the bomb had been impounded by the police two months
before the blast because its Albanian owner did not have a roadworthiness
certificate.

Whoever planted it, the bomb was a reminder of at least one ethnic conflict in
the Balkans which has yet to run its course.

After the region was stripped of its autonomy in 1989, the Kosovo Albanians
opted not to fight Belgrade rule, but melted away to run their own schools,
hospitals and social services in garages and cellars.

The guru of passive resistance, Ibrahim Rugova, 52-year-old leader of the
Democratic Party of Kosovo (LDK), claims the policy has saved his people from
the fate of the Bosnian Muslims.  "What we have achieved is that we are still
here," he said.  "We are still alive. Albanians continue to live in Kosovo, and
- although under foreign rule - we have built up a free space for ourselves."

But even before the bomb, the demonstrations changed the dynamics of Kosovo
politics. Since Zajedno succeeded in damaging the Milosevic regime, there has
been increasing pressure from Albanians for their leadership to follow suit.

There is no shortage of discontent. Kosovo is the poorest corner of a pauperised
country. And in an over-policed state, the greatest concentration of the
security forces is deployed against the Albanian community. In Pristina,
Albanian teenagers complain of being beaten by the all-Serb police, sometimes of
being forced to eat the improvised textbooks from their garage schools.

Now, for the first time since he was chosen as the Kosovo Albanian leader in
1992, Mr Rugova's position is under threat. In December, Adem Demaqi, a civil
rights activist who was a political prisoner for 28 years, took up the
leadership of the LDK's main rival, the Parliamentary Party of Kosovo (PPK).

Many observers believe that if the Kosovo Albanians hold their planned elections
in May, Mr Demaqi has a chance of winning.

Veton Surroi, editor of the Albanian-language weekly Koha, said there was
widespread disappointment that the international recognition Mr Rugova predicted
for Kosovo's independence had failed to materialise.

Mr Demaqi also appears to have won the support of the mother country.  A
television channel beamed into Kosovo from Albania is paying increasing
attention to the challenger.

Mr Demaqi's deputy, Bajram Kosumi, promised that a PPK win in May would lead to
more active resistance to Serb institutions.  "Even if they beat us," Mr Kosumi
said, "it is better than to go on waiting."

Mr Rugova warns that such a strategy would lead to war on a Bosnian scale, but
the PPK disagrees.

"If we go on like this, people will lose hope in a peaceful solution, and that
will either lead to capitulation or a war," Mr Kosumi said.

He argued that even if Mr Milosevic tried to use a more assertive Albanian
opposition as a pretext for a new nationalist crusade, he could no longer count
on military or civilian support to start a war.

Other Milosevic-watchers are not so confident. As one diplomat said: "if he's
pushed hard enough, he'll have nothing to lose."

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          January 29, 1997, Wednesday

IRA ATTACK ARMY PATROL;
IRA terrorists fire rockets at an Army patrol in Belfast

SECTION: Page 11

LENGTH: 33 words


IRA terrorists fired two rockets at an Army patrol in Belfast last night,
hitting a Land Rover and striking a training centre. No one was injured but two
elderly women were treated for shock.


LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 4, 1997, Tuesday

SHARK TERROR;
ROWER ESCAPES SHARK ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 53 words


A woman rower escaped when a shark tore her boat to pieces in a Sydney river
which will be used for events in the next Olympics

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           February 16, 1997, Sunday

TRUCKING TERROR;
Blame Basque separatists for attacks on stranded trucks say Spanish police

SECTION: Page 5

LENGTH: 57 words


Spanish police yesterday blamed Basque separatists - passing as pickets - for
attacks on stranded trucks.

Thousands of lorries, including 300 from Britain, are trapped near Bilbao on the
10th day of a national haulage strike.

Pickets in the Basque area have attacked scores of the trucks, smashing
windscreens and slashing tyres.


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           February 28, 1997, Friday

THUG JAILED FOR PREYING ON NURSES;
A masked attacker who terrorised two nurses was caged for five years yesterday

BYLINE: Gordon Mcilwraith

SECTION: Page 15

LENGTH: 244 words


A masked attacker who terrorised two nurses was caged for five years yesterday.

One victim was so frightened that she was almost knocked down by a car trying to
flee.

But the other bravely fought off Kenneth Hamilton, 27.

A court heard Hamilton - who has a "fearsome" record - struck on two successive
nights as the nurses walked to their rooms at St John's Hospital, Livingston,
West Lothian.

Angel Lynne Kennedy heard footsteps behind her, spotted Hamilton and ran off.

But in her panic, she narrowly missed being run over.

The following night in October last year, Raewyn Kamau was walking on a badly-
lit path to the nurses' home.

Hamilton grabbed her from behind and demanded cash. The High Court in Edinburgh
heard she struggled with him and fell, cutting her head.

Hamilton, who had tights over his head, produced a plastic bag and told her he
had a knife in it.

Advocate depute Kevin Drummond, QC, said: "She seized hold of the mask saying
that if he didn't get off her she would pull off the mask.

"At that point the man got up and ran off. She got herself back to the nurses'
quarters where she burst into tears."

Hamilton, of no fixed abode, was arrested the day after and admitted breach of
the peace and assault with intent to rob.

Paul McBride, defending, said Hamilton had a bad record as a result of drug
taking, and almost all his offences were for dishonesty.

He added that Hamilton didn't have a knife.


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                             March 9, 1997, Sunday

TERROR AT CRUFTS;
Young child attacked by hunting dog at Crufts yesterday

SECTION: Page 5

LENGTH: 57 words


A tot was last night recovering after a horror attack by a hunting dog during
the Crufts show.

The 18-month-old girl, who has not been named, suffered a two-inch gash to her
right cheek when she was bitten by a Weimaraner.

She was taken from the Birmingham NEC for hospital treatment. No decision on the
dog's future has been taken.


LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 10, 1997, Monday

SEX ATTACK TERROR;
WOMEN SEXUALLY ASSAULTED AT SOMERWEST WORLD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 93 words


A woman suffered a serious sexual attack at Somerwest World in Minehead.

The victim, 35, from South Wales, was pushed to the ground by a man in his late
30s with fair, short hair. The offender, of medium build, wore a cream Aran
jumper and blue jeans.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           March 12, 1997, Wednesday

Women terrorised as sex attacker claims 21 victims

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page  9

LENGTH: 561 words


A serial sex attacker is preying on women in the West Midlands and is believed
to have assaulted at least 21 victims in the past three months.

Detectives fear that the man, who frequently uses a knife to terrorise his
targets, will strike again soon.

In a large number of the cases, he has grabbed his victim from behind, often
from a bus stop, or off the street, and taken her to a quiet spot before
attacking and robbing her. Some of the women have suffered serious sexual
assault and are deeply traumatised.

He is believed to be responsible for at least 18 separate attacks in Birmingham
and in Kidderminster, in Hereford and Worcester. The youngest victims were 15
years old.

A team of 40 officers is trying to track down the serial criminal and a reward
of pounds 1,000 has been offered. Detective Chief Inspector Trevor Swingler, who
is heading Operation Blackpool, said: "We need to catch this man before he
attacks anybody else."

The attacker often uses a craft knife with a retractable blade during the
assaults.

A police spokesman said: "He frequently approaches people from behind with a
knife and puts his hands over their mouths and then attacks them."

The first attack is believed to have taken place on the evening of 2 December,
when a 16-year-old girl was grabbed from behind by a man while she was walking
along the road in Harborne, Birmingham, and was dragged into a park where she
was indecently assaulted.

Other victims include a girl aged 17 who was approached by a man with a knife
while she was waiting in a bus shelter in Solihull on 28 December.  She was
forced into the shelter and sexually assaulted before having her money snatched.

In one evening, on 18 January, in Kidderminster, five women were attacked at
knifepoint. They included a 40-year-old who was indecently assaulted and an
18-year-old who was cut on the hand.

On 19 January, the attacker ran up behind a woman aged 19 at Bartley Green,
Birmingham, and forced her on to nearby grassland where she was robbed and
indecently assaulted.

Two girls were threatened by a man with a craft knife on 20 January while they
were walking in Northfield, Birmingham. The man forced them into an alley and
then indecently assaulted them, before fleeing.

Two 15-year-old girls were assaulted by a knifeman while waiting at a bus
shelter in Weoley Castle, Birmingham. They were pushed to the ground and
threatened.  However, the attacker was disturbed by a motorist and ran off.

A 16-year-old walking in Northfield was threatened and forced behind a block of
maisonettes where she was indecently assaulted and robbed on 19 February.

Two days later a 15-year-old girl was seized and threatened with a knife while
she was waiting at a bus stop in Solihull. She was robbed and indecently
assaulted.

The last reported incident happened on 2 March when a 17-year-old girl, walking
home in Bournville, Birmingham, was forced into a nearby park at knifepoint and
sexually assaulted and robbed.

The attacker is usually described as a white man, between 5ft 6in and 5ft 10in,
aged in his late twenties or early thirties, of stocky build, and wearing a
baseball cap, a dark bomber jacket, jeans, and training shoes.

Anyone with information about the attacker should contact the West Midland
police on 0121 626 4123.


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1997 Independent Print Ltd

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 22, 1997

FOUR DIE IN TEL AVIV CAFE BLAST;
Netanyahu accuses Arafat of giving 'green light' to terrorists as suicide bomber
attacks Israeli crowds celebrating Purim

BYLINE: Shyam Bhatia In Tel Aviv And Ian Black In London

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN FOREIGN PAGE; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1134 words


THREE Israeli women were killed and more than 40 people injured, three
critically, when a Palestinian suicide bomber blew himself up yesterday in a Tel
Aviv cafe, dealing a new blow to the faltering Middle East peace process.

Amid international outrage led by President Bill Clinton, leaders of the Hamas
fundamentalist group hailed the "heroic martyr" and said violence was the only
language that Israel understood. In some parts of Gaza and the West Bank
Palestinians cheered the "good news".

Yasser Arafat and other Palestinian officials condemned the killings. Israelis
and Palestinians were unanimous in the view that the peace process is in its
most critical phase.

With tensions already high over the controversial construction of a new Jewish
settlement in East Jerusalem, the Israeli prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu,
accused Mr Arafat and his Palestinian Authority of giving Muslim fundamentalists
"a green light" to resume terrorist attacks.

Mr Arafat, who returned yesterday from crisis consultations in Cairo with
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, telephoned Israel's president, Ezer Weizman,
to offer his condolences.

Yesterday's attack, on the eve of the Jewish festival of Purim, follows repeated
warnings from Mr Arafat, other Arab leaders and Western governments that the
decision to build the settlement of Har Homa would lead to another intifada, or
uprising.

For the second day running, Palestinian stone-throwers clashed with Israeli
troops on the outskirts of Jerusalem and in the West Bank city of Hebron, where
four soldiers and 30 Palestinians were injured.

Many of those hurt in the Tel Aviv blast were children and women wearing fancy
-dress for the Purim holiday. Rescuers rushed out of the cafe carrying a
six-month-old girl dressed in a blue and red clown costume. A 12-year-old girl
was taken to the Beilinson hospital with bandages around her head, her pink
bridal dress soaked in blood.

The bomb exploded at 1.45pm inside the popular Apropos cafe, a few hundred yards
from the busy Dizengoff Centre where a similar attack was carried out almost a
year ago to the day. Because of the sunny weather and the approach of the Jewish
sabbath, the cafes and pavements were packed.

Police said the attacker was a Palestinian, aged 28, from Zurif, half-way
between Bethlehem and Hebron. He has not yet been named, but police say he is
linked to Hamas, which has claimed responsibility for most suicide operations
inside the Jewish state.

"I saw the suicide bomber," said Dafna Alon, who was injured in the explosion.
"When he walked into the cafe, he was carrying a big bag and a yellow coat. He
searched for the best place to sit down - in the centre. Three minutes later
there was a big boom and glass was flying all over the place; there were bodies
everywhere, there was a lot of blood on the floor.  I tried to help a young
woman, but she didn't move. I ran out and shouted for help."

An elderly woman with blood on her face shouted as she was rushed into the
nearby Ichilov hospital: "Islam did this, this is the work of (the Prophet)
Mohammed; our government is also responsible for this carnage."

Tel Aviv's mayor, Roni Milo, a supporter of the peace process, was booed by
crowds as he arrived at the cafe. Thirty Israelis carried placards which read:
"This peace is killing us." Another group shouted: "Netanyahu is responsible for
the deadlock in the peace process."

President Clinton condemned the attack, saying: "There is no place for such acts
of terror and violence in the peace process."

But last night the US again vetoed a Security Council resolution calling on
Israel to abandon construction of Jewish housing in Arab East Jerusalem - the
second time it had done so this month.

In London, the Foreign Office said: "We unreservedly condemn this latest wicked
terrorist attack."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 27, 1997

Now Heseltine attacks Labour terrorism policy

BYLINE: By Desmond McCartan

LENGTH: 233 words


The row between Labour and the Tories over terrorism deepened today as deputy
Prime Minister Michael Heseltine joined the attack on Tony Blair. His remarks
came after a Labour challenge to John Major to disown Home Secretary Michael
Howard's accusation that Mr Blair was soft on terrorism.

An irate Mr Blair complained to the prime minister about the charge, made in the
aftermath of the Cheshire bombings.

However, an unrepentant Mr Howard said he would continue to make the
accusations.

Mr Heseltine said: "Time and time and time again, he has seen the Labour Party
vote against proposals that, in the view of the Government and Michael Howard,
are likely to help the conduct of security and law and order in this country."
The anti-terrorist legislation was a "very good example" of that, he said,
adding: "Tony Blair has consistently voted against Prevention of Terrorism Acts
until the election was in the offing, when he decided to take the brave decision
to abstain.

"He was vilified by his own national sympathisers because, quite obviously, this
is an Act designed to protect the British people, designed to enhance security
against the IRA and the Labour Party will not bring themselves to support it."
Tensions were heightened by Labour's deputy leader, John Prescott, who claimed
that Mr Major's efforts to secure UUP votes had jeopardised the peace process.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1997 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            March 27, 1997, Thursday

BABY WHO BEAT THE BOMBERS;
Little Shani Winter victim of last week's Tel Aviv terrorist attack

BYLINE: Mark Dowdney

SECTION: Page 15

LENGTH: 305 words


Bomb baby Shani Winter lies in her dad's arms - the Holy Land's modern miracle.

The six-month-old victim of last week's Tel Aviv terrorist attack should be well
enough to leave hospital next week.

Photographs of her tiny bloodied body made world headlines.

Shani had been literally blown out of her pram.

She was found lying in a pool of blood in a wrecked cafe beside her dead mum.

She stopped breathing but a rescuer revived the tot with mouth-to-mouth
resuscitation.

Shani suffered second degree burns and was covered in glass splinters.

Since the blast her father, Michael, has kept a permanent vigil beside her bed.

The 34-year-old dentist is heartbroken over the death of his lawyer wife, Anat.

He said: "I can't, simply can't, allow myself to break down. I must be strong
for my daughter. I shall now have to be father and mother in one."

Asked how he will cope, he replied sadly: "I haven't got a clue. But certainly I
shall devote as much time as possible to the baby.

"I only hope that this beautiful child will not have physical scars on her body.
The scars that she will carry anyway might never heal."

Baby Shani has now been transferred out of intensive care into a children's
ward.

She still cries in pain because of her burns.

Dr Winter said there was no point in hating the Arab suicide bomber who killed
his wife.

He said yesterday: "I think he was a robot, a smart bomb that blew up.

"Even if I were to hate him forever, what will it help? Nobody will return to me
my Anat."

The hospital has been flooded with goodwill calls for little Shani.

Now, after days of touch and go, the news is good.

Professor Raphael Shafir, of Tel Aviv's Medical Centre, said: "The baby's
condition has improved and is quite good. We hope to discharge her within a
week."


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 27, 1997, Thursday

AMBUSHED;
SAS SHOOT IRA SUSPECT IN ATTACK ON SECURITY BASE;
SAS AMBUSH TERRORISTS IN COALISLAND ATTACK

BYLINE: Joe Gorrod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 774 words


SAS soldiers gunned down a man during an IRA mortar attack on a security base
last night.

The crack troops ambushed the Provos as they blasted the fortified camp in
Ulster.

As the terrorists ran off they were raked with automatic gunfire.

The injured man, aged 19, was hit twice and is critically ill in hospital.

One witness said: "There were bullets flying everywhere while the debris of the
explosion was still in the air.

"The soldiers appeared to be in buildings and hedges all around the area as if
they had moved in behind the terrorists and shut off their escape."

The SAS men wore civilian clothes with only Army caps to identify them.

They let the bombers set up their raid and opened fire as a mortar shell hit the
steel walls of the compound in Coalisland, Co Tyrone.

Witnesses said the shot man was on the corner of the town square when he was
hit.

Afterwards angry crowds gathered in the fiercely nationalist area and police
moved in firing plastic bullets.

Several people were hurt and two women were taken to hospital for treatment.  A
South Tyrone hospital spokesman stressed they had not been shot.

One bystander said last night: "We all dived for the floor, we didn't know what
was happening.

"Then we saw a man lying on the ground with four men standing around him. They
were shooting in the air to keep the crowd away."

A housewife added: "There was an explosion and bullets went flying. Anyone could
have been hit and we were all terrified.

"Children were screaming in their beds and people in the street threw themselves
flat to escape."

Police confirmed there were no injuries to members of the security forces.

The Provos are believed to have mounted the attack from a converted van.  But
their recent operations have been plagued by informers and the undercover troops
are likely to have been briefed about the exact time and place of the raid.

The Coalisland base is one of the biggest in the area. It houses both police and
soldiers and is the centre of operations for a parachute battalion.

It has been a frequent IRA target.

Several years ago a soldier on duty in a watch tower was shot by a sniper and it
has been hit by a series of remote-controlled rockets and shells.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEADLY: A crack SAS soldier ready for action

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 April 1, 1997

Wave of terror attacks

LENGTH: 63 words


POLICE were today probing a wave of arson and intimidation in loyalist areas of
Mid Ulster.

A series of attacks hit Dungannon, New Mills, Coalisland and The Bush between
4am and 7.45am today.

Flammable liquid was poured through letter boxes of three houses in Dungannon
and the Bush. Two were set ablaze.

In New Mills, windows were broken in a Post Office.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1997 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 2, 1997, Wednesday

FAMILY IN SHINING TERROR;
VIOLENT SCOTLAND;
FAMILY ATTACKED WITH SICKLE SEE ATTACKERS JAILED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 307 words


A killer armed with a sickle hacked a hole in a door to get at a couple and
their screaming baby.

As the horror scene -straight from Jack Nicholson movie The Shining - unfolded,
Stephen Gibbs blocked the door with his body in a desperate bid to protect
girlfriend Jennifer Taylor and 17-month-old daughter Ashley.

The three frenzied intruders, who shouted death threats during the apparently
motiveless attack, were jailed for a total of 16 years yesterday.

The High Court in Glasgow heard that Stuart Gilmour's vicious weapon just missed
Stephen.

Gilmour, 21, of Glenapp Place, Pennyburn, Kilwinning, was jailed for seven
years. He'd already served eight for culpable homicide. Eugene Dingivan, 24, of
Newark Square, and John Leggat, 19, of Cambusdoon Place, also Pennyburn, got
five and four years respectively.

Summing up judge, Alistair Stewart, said: "These young people and their child
were put through a terrifying experience for no reason."

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NICHOLSON: Horror film

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 April 8, 1997

Terror attacks take beatings toll to 65

BYLINE: By Paul Connolly

LENGTH: 271 words


Security Correspondent

OUTRAGED campaigners demanded an end to paramilitary beatings today after two
savage attacks in Co Down.

Two men were left with shattered limbs following beatings in Hillsborough and
Downpatrick.

A 25-year-old man was abducted around 7.00pm yesterday as he strolled along
Langley Road, Ballynahinch.

He was driven to a lane near St James' Road, Hillsborough where he was beaten
and left with a broken right leg and cuts to his left leg. The victim managed to
crawl to a main road where a motorist called police and an ambulance crew,
police said.

In Downpatrick, five masked men pushed their way into a kitchen at Colmcille
Road and dragged a 26-year- old man to a nearby car park. He was beaten with
sledgehammers and suffered fractures to his knee and lower leg.

There have now been at least 65 paramilitary beatings and 20 shootings in
Northern Ireland this year.

Republicans have carried out 38 of the assaults. Loyalist gunmen have been
blamed for 19 of the shootings.

Nancy Gracey, of the anti-terror group Outcry, said paramilitary attacks and
beatings are spiralling out of control.

"These thugs are a national disgrace and the people have got to rise up against
them," she said.

"People have lost their lives in these attacks and it's only a matter of time
before another victim dies." Each attack costs the taxpayer (GBP)9,000 in health
service treatment and compensation awards, official figures show.Anyone with
information on the attacks is asked to contact detectives at Downpatrick station
(tel 01369 615011) or call Crimestoppers (0800 555111).


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1997 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            April 19, 1997, Saturday

COP PROBED OVER ROAD RAGE ATTACK;
He terrorised handicapped kids;
A road rage policeman is being investigated after handicapped kids were
terrorised

BYLINE: Cara Page Exclusive

SECTION: Page 17

LENGTH: 255 words


A road rage cop was being investigated yesterday after handicapped kids were
terrorised.

The youngsters were left in tears following the incident.

One of the adult passengers was so terrified he had a series of epileptic fits
and had to be taken to hospital.

Charity worker Millie Wood, 50, yesterday told of their ordeal as the group
headed back to Peterhead after taking part in a bowling contest in Lincoln.

She said the furious bobby struck as she turned off a roundabout after leaving
the A1 at Berwick-upon-Tweed.

She noticed a VW Golf behind their minibus and the driver blasted his horn.

Millie pulled in to a deserted petrol station to let the Golf overtake - but the
driver followed her, smashing a light on their trailer.

Millie said: "He jumped out of his car and came across and battered on the side
of my door.

"I wound down my window and he started shouting at me. He said I had pulled out
in front of him on the roundabout.

"He was really angry and aggressive and two of the children started to cry.

"Then he flashed a special constable's badge in my face and stormed back to his
car.

"He sped off leaving us all in a terrible state of alarm.

"It was obvious my passengers were mentally handicapped and I couldn't believe
the way he had behaved."

Millie noted down his registration number and immediately reported it to police.

"It's disgraceful a man in his position should vent his anger on a group like
that."

Last night, a police spokesman said a probe was under way


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 1997 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:58:39

