



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:39:04
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 1, 2015 Monday

Sudan condemns terror attack on mosque in Saudi Arabia's Damam city

LENGTH: 152 words


Text of report in English by Sudanese government newspaper Sudan Vision website
on 30 May

[Unattributed report: "Sudan Condemns Terrorist Attack Targeting Mosque in Damam
City"]

Sudan has expressed condemnation and denounced the terrorist explosion yesterday
targeting Anoud mosque in Damam city located in east of Saudi Arabia, killing a
number of citizens.

The official spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ambassador Ali
Al-Sadiq affirmed in a statement Sudan's objection to the destabilisation of the
security of Saudi Arabia.

He said such criminal acts will not stop Saudi Arabia from going ahead in its
progress, calling for solidarity with righteousness and supporting those
suffering injustice.

Al-Sadiq affirmed Sudan's stand on the side of Saudi Arabia and supporting it in
all the measures it takes to maintain its security and stability.

Source: Sudan Vision website, Khartoum, in English 30 May 15

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        June 1, 2015 Monday 3:21 PM GMT

Pope Francis compares Mediterranean migrant crisis to abortion;
'Terrorism, war, violence are attacks against life'

BYLINE: Tom Brooks-Pollock

SECTION: PEOPLE

LENGTH: 241 words


Pope Francis has said that leaving migrants travelling on boats to die in the
Mediterranean is similar to the "scourge" of abortion.

The pontiff made the controversial comparison - between what he called the
"scourge of abortion" and "leaving out brothers to die in the Sicilian Channel"
- at a meeting of Catholic scientists at the Vatican.

Other "scourges" classed by Pope Francis as "an attack against life" including
euthanasia - as well as malnutrition, terrorism, war and violence.

The Catholic News Agency reported that Pope Francis was addressing a meeting of
the Italian Associazione Scienza & Vita (Science and Life Association) when he
made the comments.

Migrants mingle with holidaymakers in KosHe said: "The scourge of abortion is an
attack against life. Leaving our brothers on boats to die in the Sicilian
channel is an attack against life. "Death in the workplace, because the minimum
safety conditions are not followed, is an attack against life. Death from
malnutrition is an attack against life. "Terrorism, war, violence; but also
euthanasia are attacks against life."The Pope made remarks hours after 750
migrants were rescued off the coast of Sicily. Around 1,800 people have died
trying to cross the Mediterranean since the turn of the year.

READ MORE: 'IF EUROPE THINKS BOMBING BOATS WILL STOP SMUGGLING, IT WILL NOT'POPE
DECLARES EVOLUTION AND BIG BANG REALLIBYA 'WILL REPEL ANY MILITARY ACTION FROM
EU' TO STOP PEOPLE SMUGGLERS

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 1, 2015 Monday 11:16 AM GMT

Head of CIA warns that US is at risk of lone wolf terror attack after NSA powers
to monitor all phone calls expired - as Isis 'watch carefully' for security gaps



BYLINE: KIERAN CORCORAN FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1696 words



     ·    Legislation allowing mass collection of phone records expired Sunday
     ·    Patriot Act also enabled wire taps and warrants issued without
          evidence
     ·    Senate tried to pass reform bill but was frustrated by Rand Paul
          (R-KY)
     ·    Paul claimed victory, but admitted replacement law is likely to be
          passed
     ·    Head of CIA now warns terrorists are 'watching developments carefully'
          and says ordinary Americans at risk because of political grandstanding




The head of the CIA has warned that Americans are now at risk after the Senate
was unable to extend laws giving authorities special powers to fight terrorists.

Politicians in the upper house were unable to come to an agreement to extend key
parts of the Patriot Act - that legalise controversial methods of surveillance
by the National Security Agency (NSA) - which expired on Sunday.

Attempts were frustrated by Presidential candidate Rand Paul, who has taken a
firm stance against the extension of powers allowing the mass collection of
phone records, wire taps and warrants without evidence.

But the Head of the CIA John Brennan claims ordinary Americans, who expect the
NSA to do their jobs, have been put at risk by 'political grandstanding and
crusading for ideological causes' that fueled the debate.

Speaking on CBS show Face The Nation, he warned that the US - and Europe - is
now in danger from technologically 'sophisticated' terrorists who are watching
developments carefully and 'looking for the seams to operate' within.

He claimed that the authorities do not abuse the powers, extended in 2011 to
help fight lone wolf terror suspects not connected to a specific group, and that
without them, it's difficult for the NSA to protect America.

Mr Brennan said: 'I think terrorist elements have watched very carefully what
has happened here in the United States, whether or not it's disclosures of
classified information or whether it's changes in the law and policies. They are
looking for the seams to operate within.

'And this is something that we can't afford to do right now, because if you look
at the horrific terrorist attacks and violence that is being perpetrated around
the globe, we need to keep our country safe. And our oceans are not keeping us
safe the way they did a century ago.'

The Patriot Act was passed in 2001 in the wake of the 9/11 terror attacks. Now
that the provisions have expired, government agents will need to subpoena phone
companies for the records.

The White House previously justified collecting the records because of the
Patriot Act's Section 215, which expired on Sunday.

Two other provisions, added in 2011, also expired with it. The first is a
'roving wiretap' provision which allows government agencies to keep tracking
suspects as they switch devices.

The second is a 'lone wolf' clause which allows warrants to be granted without
any evidence linking a suspect to a foreign power or terrorist group.

Political struggles over the NSA and its data collection have become a national
issue since whistleblower Edward Snowden revealed the extent of government
programs in 2013.

The senate's efforts to pass a replacement bill were frustrated by Kentucky's
junior senator Rand Paul, who has spoken at length against the NSA's activities,
which he has excoriated as illegal and unconstitutional.

WHAT DID THE PATRIOT ACT DO?

The USA Patriot Act is an acronym for the Strengthening America by Providing
Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act, signed by
George W Bush in 2001 after the 9/11 attack.

It allowed authorities to:


     ·    Detain immigrants indefinitely
     ·    Search homes and businesses without the owner's consent or knowledge
     ·    Search phone, email and financial records without a court order
     ·    Access a wider range of business records, including library and
          financial records


Powers were expanded in 2011 by Barrack OBama's administration, introducing
additional powers:


     ·    The 'roving wiretap' gives the government the authority to tap a
          suspect's line as he hops from one device to another. It does so by
          enabling spies to apply for a warrant without identifying the target
     ·    The 'lone wolf' provision allows spies to get a warrant to monitor
          someone electronically without having to prove that they are part of a
          wider known terrorist group


Paul, a Republican who is running for president, came up against members of his
own party, as well as the Obama administration.

With his presidential campaign waning, he has been accused of irresponsible
political opportunism by opponents, by fighting a bill on ideological grounds
that may put ordinary people at risk.

He was criticized by the White House Sunday night, which called the Patriot Act
expiration an 'irresponsible lapse'.

While Brennan didn't mention Paul by name, he said on Face The Nation:
'Unfortunately I think there is a little too much political grandstanding and
crusading for ideological causes that have really fuelled the debate on this
issue.

He added: 'These are authorities that have been used by the government to make
sure that we're able to safeguard Americans. And the sad irony is that most
Americans expect the government to protect them. And so although there's a lot
of debate that goes on, on the Congress and the Hill on this issue, I think,
when you go out to Boise or Tampa or Louisville, Americans are expecting their
law enforcement and homeland security and intelligence professionals to do their
work. And these authorities are important.'

Paul argued 'there must be another way' but even he agrees that the lapse in
these powers are likely to be temporary as politicians work on the USA Freedom
Act, which is expected to pass within the next week.

Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell called a rare Sunday session
to try to pass the replacement law, but was unable to push it through in time.

And although the replacement is set to pass this week, Paul said the expiration
was 'a victory no matter how you look at it'.

In a statement, he said: 'It might be short lived, but I hope that it provides a
road for a robust debate, which will strengthen our intelligence community,
while also respecting our Constitution.

WHAT IS THE SENATE'S NEXT MOVE?

The Patriot Act is supposed to be replaced by the USA Freedom Act, an acronym
for Strengthening America by Fulfilling Rights and Ending Eavesdropping,
Dragnet-collection and Online Monitoring Act. It is expected to pass next week
and will:


     ·    Rein in powers for the mass collection of data, requiring agencies
          instead to apply for information on a specific entity, such as a
          person, account or device
     ·    Require intelligence agencies to be more transparent about what they
          collect, allowing technology companies to be more open about what they
          share
     ·    EXTEND powers offered in the lone wold and roving wire tap provisions


It was first proposed in 2013 but is expected to pass this week

He added: 'The expiration of the NSA's sweeping, all-encompassing and
ineffectual powers will not relinquish functions necessary for protecting
national security. The expiration will instead do what we should have done all
along - rely on the Constitution for these powers.'

According to a top lawmaker, as of 8pm Sunday no NSA employee could access their
enormous phone records database, which holds metadata on millions of phone
conversations handed over by telecoms companies like Verizon and AT&T.

Senate Intelligence Committee chairman Richard Burr said on Sunday: 'There is no
way to get any type of agreement tonight -- either an extension or passage of a
bill. So at 8pm tonight, NSA employees can not query the database'.

In a statement issued Sunday night, Obama's press secretary Josh Earnest, urged
action to pass the USA Freedom Act as quickly as possible.

He said: 'The Senate took an important - if late - step forward tonight. We call
on the Senate to ensure this irresponsible lapse in authorities is as
short-lived as possible.

'On a matter as critical as our national security, individual Senators must put
aside their partisan motivations and act swiftly. The American people deserve
nothing less.'

Some lawmakers have said the lapse raises alarming questions about how US
authorities can keep the homeland safe with a diminished security toolbox.

'I think it's very very unfortunate that we're in this position,' said Senator
Mike Lee, a conservative Republican who supports the reform bill.

'We've known this date was coming for four years. Four years. And I think it's
inexcusable that we adjourned' for a weeklong break last week without resolving
the issue.

Lee, too, conceded that the reform bill would most likely pass in the coming
week.

With the clock ticking, CIA chief John Brennan warned Sunday that allowing vital
surveillance programs to lapse could increase terror threats, and argued that
the phone metadata dragnet has not abused civil liberties and only serves to
safeguard citizens.

'This is something that we can't afford to do right now,' Brennan said of
allowing the counterterrorism provisions to expire.

'Because if you look at the horrific terrorist attacks and violence being
perpetrated around the globe, we need to keep our country safe, and our oceans
are not keeping us safe the way they did century ago,' he said on CBS talk show
Face the Nation.

Brennan added that online threats from groups like Isis would continue to grow
over the next five to ten years.

He said: 'Isis has been very sophisticated and adept at using the Internet to
propagate its message and reach out to individuals. We see what is happening as
far as thousands upon thousands of individuals, including many thousands from
the West, that have traveled into Syria and Iraq. And a number of these
individuals are traveling back.

'And what we see, they're also using the Internet as a way to incite and
encourage individuals to carry out acts of violence.

'So as the director of FBI says, you know, this use of these websites and their
Internet capabilities is something of great concern. So yes, I think ISIS is a
threat not just in the Middle East and South Asia and African regions but also
to Europe as well as to the United States.'

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 2, 2015 Tuesday 2:00 PM GMT

Rand Paul admits he 'exaggerated' when he accused opponents of 'secretly'
wishing for a terror attack because he forced suspension of NSA mass
surveillance powers

BYLINE: FRANCESCA CHAMBERS FOR DAILYMAIL.COM

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1496 words



     ·    'People here in town think I'm making a huge mistake,' he said Sunday
          on the Senate floor. 'Some of them, I think, secretly want there to be
          an attack on the United States so they can blame it on me'
     ·    Shoved in the direction of an apology of Fox, Paul said, 'I think
          sometimes in the heat of battle hyperbole can get the better of
          anyone'
     ·    Pressed to recant he said: 'I think by calling it hyperbole that means
          that I may well have exaggerated the case'
     ·    White House said in response: 'Obviously the president and his
          national security team go to great lengths to be vigilant to protect
          the country from any sort of terrorist attack'
     ·    Paul's attempts to force a permanent end to the NSA program has
          angered his Republican colleagues in addition to the Obama
          administration


Kentucky Senator Rand Paul admitted today that a comment he made on the Senate
floor on Sunday night about his detractors 'secretly' hoping for a terrorist
attack just to spite him was 'exaggerated.'

'I think sometimes in the heat of battle hyperbole can get the better of anyone,
and that may be the problem there,' Paul said this morning on Fox News. 'The
point I was trying to make is that I think sometimes people do use fear to try
to get us to give up our liberty.'

The White House said today that the president didn't have a specific response
Paul's remarks on the Patriot Act this weekend when asked about them broadly
this afternoon at a regular briefing with reporters.

Press Secretary Josh Earnest later said, in response to a question about Paul's
terrorist attack accusations: 'Obviously the president and his national security
team go to great lengths to be vigilant to protect the country from any sort of
terrorist attack.'

SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO

He then repeated the West Wing's boilerplate statement that the Senate needs to
pass a bill extending certain Patriot Act provisions that also reform its
ability to review bulk data so that law enforcement officials aren't left
without access to important national security tools.

At another point in the briefing Earnest said of White House aspirant Paul that
'it's ironic - to say the least - that Senator Paul blocked a piece of
legislation that actually solved the problem that he was talking about.

Paul forcefully stood his ground during a Sunday night session of Congress, held
just hours before key sections of the Patriot Act were set to expire.

'People here in town think I'm making a huge mistake,' he said. 'Some of them, I
think, secretly want there to be an attack on the United States so they can
blame it on me.'

Shoved in the direction of an apology by America's Newsroom host Bill Hemmer
this morning, Paul refused to recant his statement but said, 'I think by calling
it hyperbole that means that I may well have exaggerated the case.'

Many of Paul's Republican colleagues had been careful not to lash out at him
directly in public throughout the weeks-long fight over how to best address
changes to the Patriot Act.

His behavior on the upper chamber's floor on Sunday evening unleashed their
fury, though, and several GOP senators derided him at a closed-door meeting -
which he skipped - in interviews with  Politico and on the Senate floor.

Nevada Senator Dean Heller said Paul could have made known his opposition to the
extension of the Patriot Act powers without repeatedly holding up Senate
business the way he did.

'It accomplished just the same, but he couldn't raise money objecting,' Heller
said. 'He could only raise money filibustering.'

Arizona Senator John McCain also accused him of trying to gin up his base.

'I know what this is about - I think it's very clear - this is, to some degree,
a fundraising exercise,' McCain, the 2008 nominee for the Republican nomination,
said. 'He obviously has a higher priority for his fundraising and political
ambitions than for the security of the nation.'

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, the senior senator from Kentucky,
unloaded on Paul on the Senate floor after the freshman lawmaker tried to
disrupt the upper chamber's debate Sunday evening on the Patriot Act.

'We shouldn't be disarming unilaterally as our enemies grow more sophisticated
and aggressive, and we certainly should not be doing so based on a campaign of
demagoguery and disinformation launched in the wake of the unlawful actions of
Edward Snowden,' he said.

Paul rejected the Republican senators' characterization of his motives in an
interview with NBC News.

'I don't think many people question my sincerity on this issue,' Paul said.
'I've been fighting this battle since I came here. I forced the issue in 2011.
There's always going to be cynics.'

Section 215 of the Patriot Act, as well as two others that gave the feds broader
latitude to wiretap suspected criminals and keep an eye on possible 'lone wolf'
terrorists, expired on Sunday at midnight after Paul's third attempt in two
weeks to prevent an extension.

Paul believes that the NSA's monitoring of Americans' phone records is a
violation of the Fourth Amendment because even an eagle eye view he says can
reveal deeply personal information such as the medical history of a person.

The House has already passed an NSA reform bill, the USA Freedom Act, that would
allow the government agency to continue reviewing Americans' telephone records
for calls to known terrorists.

But those records would no longer be directly held by the NSA. The agency would
instead have to file a petition with a secret court to obtain that information
from phone companies.

After a pro-longed debate in the Senate that kept lawmakers from beginning their
Memorial Day recess on time and brought them back early, a stampede of
Republicans holding out for a full extension of the Patriot Act provisions that
were due sunset changed course and voted to take up the USA Freedom Act.

They won't take it under formal consideration until Tuesday, however, and some
who voted to move forward on debate want amendments changing fundamentals of the
legislation that would require a new House vote.

That's a scenario the White House has aggressively argued against, noting that
the bill as written was a carefully negotiated agreement between Republicans and
Democrats, and the president's national security team and Capitol Hill.

'The Senate should not get into a game where they start adding amendments to
this piece of legislation,' he said, that requires House to vote on it again.

One, proposed by McConnell, would extend the amount of time that the NSA has to
come into compliance with the new rules from six months to a year.

Earnest said today that the White House does not believe an amendment like that
is 'necessary.'

'We believe that six months is enough,' he said.  And if its not, the executive
branch will go back to Congress and ask for more time.

A group of four lawmakers, two Republicans and two Democrats, who authored the
House version of the USA Freedom Act said in a statement this afternoon that the
House is not likely to approve of Senator McConnell's changes to their bill.

'Section 215 has already expired. These amendments will likely make that sunset
permanent,' they warned.

The congressmen, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, the
committee's ranking member John Conyers, Rep. Jerrold Nadler and Jim
Sensenbrenner, who helped craft the first iteration of the Patriot Act, said in
the statement that 'every minute spent delaying passage of the widely-supported,
bipartisan USA Freedom Act is a minute lost in preventing the next terrorist
plot and providing greater civil liberties protections to the American people.'


The president's spokesman said numerous times today that the feds, as of last
night, no longer have the use of tools the need to keep Americans 'safe.'

He would not say, when pressed several times, that without them, the U.S. is now
less safe as a result of what he called at one point the 'partisan dysfunction'
of the Senate. He directed reporters to the national security community for such
analysis.

CIA Director John Brennan said Sunday that the Patriot Act as a whole is
'integral to making sure we're able to stop terrorist attacks.'

Brennan said during an appearance on CBS News' Face the Nation program that
terrorists have watched U.S. politics 'very carefully' from 'disclosures of
classified information' - a reference to the ex-NSA contractor, Snowden, who
revealed the bulk data collection program - to 'changes in the law and policies.

'They're looking for the seams to operate within,' he said. 'This is something
that we can't afford to deal with right now, because if you look at the horrific
terrorist attacks and violence that's being perpetrated around the globe, we
need to keep our country safe.'

He also ripped into Paul, who led the charge to end the NSA's mass surveillance
program.

'Unfortunately, I think there's been a little bit too much political
grandstanding and crusading for ideological causes that have skewed the debate
on this issue, but these tools are important to American lives,' Brennan said.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 2, 2015 Tuesday 12:25 AM GMT

Watch amazing time-lapse video showing One World Trade Centre rising from the
ashes of Twin Towers;
EarthCam footage shows incredible decade-long clean-up and construction process
as America completes re-build 13 years on from terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Chris Hewett

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 173 words


This incredible time-lapse video taken over eleven years shows the breathtaking
One World Trade Centre skyscraper rising from the ashes of New York's Twin
Towers.

The poignant official footage was captured by EarthCam throughout the
decade-long clean-up and construction process of the new stand-out figure on the
famous city skyline.

The official film has been released now the huge building project has been
completed more than 13 years on from the terrorist attacks that shook America
and the world.

EarthCam said: "Hundreds of thousands of high definition images were captured
over the past 11 years and hand-edited for this exclusive time-lapse movie."

Each of the images has been donated to the National September 11 Memorial Museum
by the organisation.

A total of 2,996 died in the four attacks in 2001 when four planes were
hi-jacked by al-Qaeda terrorists and crashed into the World Trade Centre's
iconic Twin Towers and the Pentagon.

A fourth place crashed into a field in Pennsylvania after passengers tried to
overpower the terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 2, 2015 Tuesday 1:48 PM GMT

New Oxford University vice-chancellor says US 'over-reacted' to 9/11;
Prof Louise Richardson says Britons are far more resilient because they are used
to terrorist attacks in wake of The Troubles

BYLINE: By Victoria Ward

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 648 words


The newly appointed first female vice-chancellor of Oxford University has said
that the US "overreacted" to the terrorist atrocities of 9/11.

Prof Louise Richardson, currently principal and vice-chancellor of the
University of St Andrews, said Americans dealt with the event in such a way
because violent extremism was such a new experience for them.

By comparison, she said the population of Northern Ireland, who lived with
similar brutalities throughout the Troubles, had proven resilient to terrorism.

Prof Richardson, an expert on the growth of terrorist movements, told a
conference that the most "combustible combination" for violent extremism was an
educated workforce living in an economy that did not allow them to realise their
expectations.

She said that although education did not eliminate terrorism, it was "the best
antidote" as it did not allow for a black and white view of the world.

As such, she said it was imperative that radical ideas were expressed and
challenged in universities and that such institutions should protect that right.

Taking part in a panel discussion about radicalisation in universities at the
Going Global 2015 conference in London, she said that central to any campaign
against terrorism should be a resilient population.

"The British population in the course of the Troubles and violence in Northern
Ireland proved really quite resilient, I think far more so than the US," she
said.

"And the scale of the over-reaction in the US to the 9/11 atrocity was
reflective of the fact that it was such a new experience in the US."

A number of notorious foreign extremists and weapons experts have boasted of
learning their skills in UK colleges and universities, which have some of the
most sophisticated laboratories in the world.

Rihab Taha, an Iraqi microbiologist dubbed "Dr Germ", who worked on Saddam
Hussein's biological weapons programme, studied for her PhD in plant toxins at
East Anglia University's school of biological sciences in Norwich between 1980
and 1984.

Earlier this year, it emerged that almost 800 foreign students, applying for a
range of science and engineering-based courses, had been barred from studying in
the UK amid fears they might use the knowledge they gain to build weapons of
mass destruction .

The students were barred as part of the Academic Technology Approval Scheme,
introduced in 2007 following concern from the security services that terrorists
were targeting British universities.

But Prof Richardson dismissed the notion that there was an intrinsic link
between universities and radicalisation, stating that it was a "simple matter of
demographics" as violent extremists tended to be young men who often congregated
at universities.

She added: "Any terrorist that I have ever met in the course of my academic
career had a highly over- simplified view of the world, which they saw in black
and white terms.

"If there is one thing that education does, it robs you of that simplification
and certitude.

"The great value of universities is that we have people with the time and
expertise to explore these issues."

Prof Richardson has led St Andrews for more than six years and is a specialist
in studies of terrorism and security issues, writing What Terrorists Want:
Understanding the Enemy, Containing the Threat.

The mother-of-three, who was born in Ireland, holds a PhD in government from
Harvard and an MA in political science from the University of California, Los
Angeles.

Outside academic circles, however, she is better known for her stand against the
Royal and Ancient Golf Club, which until recently did not allow women to be
members.

She said her appointment at Oxford, which will be made official by the end of
June, was "indicative of change in society, where we see more and more women in
pre-eminent positions".

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 3, 2015 Wednesday 6:11 PM GMT

US overreacted to 9/11 attacks says terror expert and next vice-chancellor of
the University of Oxford, Louise Richardson;
Professor Richardson said the UK is more resilient than the US when it comes to
terror attacks

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 329 words


The United States overreacted to the 9/11 attacks on the Twin Towers, according
to the incoming vice-chancellor of the University of Oxford.

The panic that ensued following the September 11 attacks played a part in the US
launching the so-called War on Terror.

Louise Richardson, an expert in terrorism, said the US' response was a symptom
of the fact that such attacks are a "new experience" for the country.

Speaking at a higher education conference in London, the principal of the
University of St Andrews went on to argue that the UK is more resilient when it
comes to terrorist attacks, due to the troubles in Northern Ireland.

Read more: Oxford nominates first female vice-chancellorIn praise of Oxford's
first female vice-chancellor St Andrews principal excluded from golf club
because of her sex

Exploring the psychological impact of terrorism, she went on to argue that
random attacks have such an impact on the public because "if nobody is chosen,
nobody is safe", the Daily Mail reported.

Professor Richardson went on to tell the audience, according to The Times:
"Central to any terrorism campaign should be a resilient population and, I have
to say, the British population in the course of the Troubles and violence in
Northern Ireland proved really quite resilient.

"Far more so than the United States. And the scale of the reaction - I would say
over-reaction - in the United States to the 9/11 atrocity was reflective of the
fact that it was such a new experience for the United States," she added.

In pictures: 9/11 Memorial Museum

An internationally respected scholar and author of the study 'What Terrorist
Want: Understanding the Enemy Containing the Threat', Professor Richardson often
advises policy makers on the topics of terrorism and security.

Professor Richardson will become Oxford's first female vice-chancellor when she
adopts the position in January, after she was put forward by a nominating
committee led by Oxford's chancellor, Lord Patten of Barnes.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 3, 2015 Wednesday 4:16 PM GMT

'I've got to protect myself and my kids': The mother of two who is learning how
to handle a gun at anti-terror training camp so she can save lives if she finds
herself involved in a terrorist attack

BYLINE: LEESA SMITH FOR DAILY MAIL AUSTRALIA

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 706 words



     ·    A Melbourne mother-of-two has signed up to an anti-terror training
          course
     ·    Rebecca D'Angelo feels need to be equipped with skills to take on
          gunman
     ·    The 39-year-old wants to protect herself and two girls Portia, 5 and
          Kiara, 2
     ·    Cost is $600 for the day with use of firearm and 250 rounds of
          ammunition
     ·    Program is run by former Israeli soldier turned police officer in
          Melbourne


A mother-of-two has signed up to an anti-terror training course to equip her
with the skills to take on a gunman to ensure she can protect her children from
the unexpected.

Rebecca D'Angelo has never seen or held a gun before, let alone fire a weapon,
but that is all about to change since she decided to learn how to use a
semi-automatic rifle in case she is faced with needing to defend her two little
angels, Portia, 4, and Kiara, 2.

The 39-year-old Melbourne mum refuses to allow herself, or her family, become a
victim and is willing to do whatever it takes to prepare her if the worst-case
scenario should occur.

Rebecca started doing Krav Maga, the official combat training for Israel Defence
Forces, six months ago for exercise which quickly developed into a passion for
self defence.

So, when she heard about the Israeli Tactical Shooting course on offer - where
she would deal with real weapons - she jumped at the chance.

'In Krav Maga we do learn how to disarm the gun or the knife and things like
that but if I was faced in a situation where it was a real gun I think I would
probably freeze or freak out,' she told Daily Mail Australia.

'So being able to do it where I can actually see what a gun looks like and feel
it - if I'm faced in that situation I think I would deal with it more
realistically.'

She pointed out that knowledge is power and not knowing how a firearm works was
potentially even more dangerous if was she confronted with an incident.

'If the situation arises that someone is pointing a gun at my head I want to be
able to know what to do - I've got to protect myself and my kids,' she said.

'If that gun is on the ground and I have to race to pick it up between myself
and somebody else, what am I going to do with it in my hands?'

Not that Rebecca hopes to ever be confronted with a gunman but she's just being
pragmatic about possible scenarios that could arise.

'I don't want to shoot it or have to use it but if I was in that situation I
think there would be a lot more confidence knowing that I've handled one
before,' she said.

IDF Training in Caulfield, southeast Melbourne, are holding the classes and it
costs $600 for eight hours which includes the use of a semi-automatic weapon and
250 rounds of ammunition.

Gym owner and former Israeli soldier turned police officer, Avi Yemini, said the
idea came about after the Lindt cafe siege in Sydney in December and the first
two classes sold out within 24 hours.

'I was shocked I cant believe the response we have had from the public - I
thought it would take months to get people interested to fill a class,' he said.

The course has attracted people from all different walks of life.

Yemini said the huge repsonse was a sign of times with people wanting to
eliminate the 'fear factor'.

'Some civilians just want to know how it works because there is fear in the
air,' he said.

'They see Australians going overseas and fighting and they think "these guys are
coming back to Australia and they have all of this training and understand all
of these weapons and I don't know anything - and how many do we not know of".'

Although participants don't need a gun licence - they are vetted for any
criminal history.

Rebecca said the siege had changed the way many people think about living in a
country that is no longer carefree.

'If we have more people that do self defence courses to have more confidence in
a situation like that then maybe two or three or four people could have tried to
kick him or disarm or get him down,' she said.

She added that the ordeal was too close to home and a big wake up call for the
whole country.

'It's the sort of stuff you used to read and hear about but it hadn't happen in
Australia,' she said.

'What happened in Sydney has proved that it actually does happen here now - we
do need to be aware that it's a possibility for it to happen on our doorstep -
it's scary.'

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       June 4, 2015 Thursday 10:48 PM GMT

Survivor review - Milla Jovovich goes rogue in baffling action thriller;
Terrorists plan an attack on New York in a lumberingly dated spy drama that's
convoluted without ever being intriguing

BYLINE: Peter Bradshaw

SECTION: FILM

LENGTH: 160 words


Star Rating: 2 stars

It's one of those strange weeks where the same film turns up twice. Paul Feig's
Spy is a comedy about a female intelligence agent who is plunged into a scary,
violent world. And so is this deadly serious and deadly action thriller from
director James McTeigue. It's the same thing. But with no laughs.

Milla Jovovich is a charisma-free zone playing Kate Abbott, a US embassy
official in London who uncovers a 9/11-style plot to import terrorist explosives
experts into America with a view to blowing the bejeepers out of the Big Apple
on New Year's Eve. Poor Kate finds herself blamed for a killing that wasn't her
fault and instead of reporting back to base, "goes rogue" in a baffling and
boring manner. Pierce Brosnan, his mouth set in a rictus snarl, plays a sinister
assassin called The Watchmaker.

It's a lumberingly dated kind of spy thriller, convoluted without ever being
intriguing - and an insufficient number of bangs for your buck.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 4, 2015 Thursday 1:24 PM GMT

European anti-Muslim and anti-Semitic feeling falls in wake of Charlie Hebdo
terror attacks;
Growing economic strain, divisions between EU members and a heightened fear of
terrorist incidents have not contributed to a rise in racism and xenophobia, new
research suggests

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 616 words


Europe in 2015 can seem like a pretty challenging place, with growing economic
divisions, threats of Grexits and Brexits and the memory of the January terror
attacks in Paris still very fresh.

But despite fears that those pressures could lead countries to turn inward, new
research suggests bigoted and xenophobic views have actually decreased across
the continent in the past year.

The survey by the Pew Research Center found that far from a rise in public
antipathy towards Muslims, Jews and Roma in the past year, people expressed more
positive views of all three groups.

Read more:A story about an elderly Jewish lady and her Muslim neighbours who
cared

In France, where radical Islamists gunned down 12 people at the offices of the
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo while there was a simultaneous attack on a
Jewish supermarket, respondents overwhelmingly said they had positive views of
both Muslims and Jews.

The percentage who said they had an "unfavourable" view of Muslims was down,
from 27 per cent to 24 per cent, compared to 76 per cent this year who said the
opposite. This year 92 per cent of respondents in France said they had a
"favourable" view of Jewish people.

Anti-Muslim sentiment remains high compared to anti-Semitism

In the UK, views of both groups had similarly improved - 72 per cent of Britons
in 2015 said they had a "favourable" view of Muslims, a big increase compared to
64 per cent last year. Those with a positive view of Jews increased too, from 83
per cent to 86 per cent.

Italy and Poland remained in 2015 the countries most likely express negative
views towards Jews and Muslims. In both countries, the number of people with an
unfavourable view of Muslims outnumbered those with a favourable view by 2 to 1.

Italy and Poland overwhelmingly anti-Muslim

But Pew also noted that anti-Muslim sentiment was disproportionately a
right-wing phenomenon in Europe. It said French people who place themselves on
the right (37 per cent) of the political spectrum were more likely than people
on the left (15 per cent) to bear unfavourable views of Muslims - and noted a
similar pattern in other countries.

But xenophobia down across Europe

Asked how they felt about Roma people, the continent was divided in half. The UK
(54 per cent favourable), Germany (52 per cent favourable) and Spain (58 per
cent favourable) were majority pro-Roma.

But Poland (48 per cent unfavourable compared to 41 per cent in favour), France
(60 per cent negative) and Italy were all mainly anti-Roma - in the latter's
case, by a huge 86 per cent to 9 per cent.

Pew said that women had a noticeably more positive view of Roma than men do in
both the UK (58 per cent among women vs 49 per cent among men) and Spain (64 per
cent vs 54 per cent, respectively). In pictures: Fears of French Gaza spillover
grow after 'anti-semitic' riot in Paris suburb

Bruce Stokes, Pew's director of Global Economic Attitudes, said that despite
reports detailing "a number of hostile actions" against minorities in recent
years, "the activities of a few are not necessarily reflected in the views of
the general public".

"The 2015 Pew Research Center survey was conducted after the Charlie Hebdo
massacre and the simultaneous attack on a Jewish grocery store, perpetrated by
radical Islamists in Paris," he said.

Read more: Do not call Charlie Hebdo killers 'terrorists', BBC saysFrance
approves surveillance laws after Hebdo attack

"But, in the wake of these events, there is no evidence that the atrocity
sparked new public antipathy toward Muslims in any of the six European Union
nations surveyed."

Pew said the poll of 6,028 people in Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Poland and
Spain was conducted between 7 April and 13 May.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Post Magazine

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday

78% of terrorist attacks since 2007 have been in 10 countries, says Aon

BYLINE: Andrew Tjaardstra

LENGTH: 254 words



HIGHLIGHT: A council benefits officer who lied to insurers 28 times to gain
£88,0000 has been jailed for two years.


    Aon has identified the 10 countries where the vast majority of global
terrorist attacks occur.

According to Aon's 2015 Terrorism and Political Violence Risk Map, the 10
countries which have seen 78% of all terrorist attacks between 2007 and 2014
are: Afghanistan (11% of all terrorist attacks), Colombia (2%), India (7%), Iraq
(30%), Nigeria (2%), Pakistan (13%), Russia (4%), Somalia (3%), Thailand (4%)
and Yemen (2%).

The rise of the Islamic State in Iraq has been a key contributing factor to the
terrorism seen in the country.

Within Asia, Afghanistan and Pakistan, where the Taliban is in operation, have
severe terrorism threat risks with China, Indonesia, Myanmar, the Philippines
and Thailand all high risk.

The report notes China's maritime ambitions in the South China Sea have
heightened tensions in the region with the potential for civil unrest and low
level war. In addition the threat from Islamist terrorism in Australia,
Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand should be monitored by businesses and
individuals.

The threat has risen in Australia after the  last year and a rise in the number
of Australians going to join the Islamic State - a problem that exists in many
countries across the world.

Aon added the security threat in the West from terrorism has "not been as high
in almost a decade" and that the Islamic State could carry out "simple,
opportunistic attacks" involving firearms and bladed weapons rather than
bombings.

In addition the rise of right wing extremism in Germany is seen as a concern.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                     Copyright 2015 Incisive Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Weston and Somerset Mercury

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday

Can Kate stop terrorist attack on New York?

BYLINE: David Spear

SECTION: LEIS

LENGTH: 149 words


THE worldwide fight against â ¨terrorism comes to the fore in this â
¨hard-hitting action thriller, starring Pierce Brosnan and Milla Jovovich.



Kate Abbott (Jovovich) is posted to the American Embassy in London and has one
job - stop terrorists reaching the US.

Her vital work makes her a obvious target for America's enemies but Kate soon
finds herself under suspicion.

Kate is framed for crimes she has not committed and is forced to go on the run.

But as well as a fight for her â ¨liberty, Kate must also stop â ¨terrorists
before they blow up Times Square in New York.

Can Kate ensure she remains out of jail and still save people from near certain
death â ¨thousands of miles away in the US?

Emma Thompson and James D'Arcy also appear in the film which will be released
tomorrow (Friday).

Survivor (12A) - 97 mins.

Starring: Milla Jovovich, Pierce Brosnan, Emma Thompson.

Directed by: James McTeigue.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WSM


                    Copyright 2015 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                              June 5, 2015 Friday

Five Charged With Terrorism Over Garissa University Attack

LENGTH: 88  words



HIGHLIGHT: A Kenyan court has charged five men with 162 counts of terrorism over
the Garissa University College attack claimed to have been carried out by
Islamist militant group al-Shabaab on April 2, which left 148 people dead.


News: A Kenyan court has charged five men with 162 counts of terrorism over the
Garissa University College attack claimed to have been carried out by Islamist
militant group al-Shabaab on April 2, which left 148 people dead. According to
the charge sheet read out in the court, the four Kenyans and one Tanzanian
allegedly conspired to commit a 'terrorist act' at the university. The charges
have been denied by the suspects, who were remanded in custody until June 11
when the court will rule on their bail application, reports AFP.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political Risk Alert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        June 5, 2015 Friday 3:03 PM GMT

Gillian Triggs slams 'scores of laws' threatening fundamental freedoms;
Human rights commissioner delivers forceful warning over counter-terrorism
legislation and attacks on rule of law by parliaments across Australia

BYLINE: Daniel Hurst Political correspondent

SECTION: AUSTRALIA NEWS

LENGTH: 1350 words


Australian parliaments have passed "scores of laws" that threaten fundamental
rights and freedoms, Professor Gillian Triggs has said, pointedly warning MPs to
uphold the rule of law as they prepare to debate extraordinary ministerial
powers to revoke citizenship.

In a forceful speech, the president of the Australian Human Rights Commission
argued parliaments had failed to protect democratic rights and many politicians
were "breathtakingly inconsistent" in supporting the rule of law.

And she warned that counter-terrorism laws introduced with "unseemly haste" were
likely to have a chilling effect on free speech and privacy.

Triggs's intervention comes amid intense debate about executive overreach as the
government prepares laws to give the immigration minister the power to strip
dual nationals of their Australian citizenship if they are suspected of
involvement in terrorism.

The speech is likely to inflame Triggs's already strained relationship with the
Abbott government, which has previously said it had lost confidence in the Human
Rights Commission chief over her handling of an inquiry into children in
immigration detention.

Triggs referred to the 800th anniversary of Magna Carta - which she said had
"symbolic power" - as she raised concerns that the supremacy of the law over the
executive government was "under threat in Australia's contemporary democracy".

"Over the last 15 years or so, the major political parties have agreed with each
other to pass laws that threaten some of the most fundamental rights and
freedoms that we have inherited from our common law tradition," she told an
audience at the Human Rights Law Centre in Melbourne on Friday evening.

These laws undermine democracy, especially in granting powers to the executive
that aren't subject to judicial scrutiny

"For, over the last decade, particularly since the attack in 2001 on the twin
towers in America, Australian parliaments have passed scores of laws that
infringe our democratic freedoms of speech, association and movement, the right
to a fair trial and the prohibition on arbitrary detention.

"These new laws undermine a healthy, robust democracy, especially if they grant
discretionary powers to the executive government that are not subject to
judicial scrutiny."

Triggs said the expansion of ministerial powers represented a "growing threat to
democracy" and she cited numerous examples of executive overreach including:


     ·    Powers to detain indefinitely various classes of individuals,
          including refugees and asylum seekers, those with infectious diseases,
          those subject to mandatory admission to drug and alcohol
          rehabilitation facilities and the mentally ill;
     ·    The holding of four Indigenous men with intellectual and cognitive
          disabilities for years in a maximum security prison in the Northern
          Territory even though "each complainant had been found unfit to stand
          trial or found not guilty by reason of insanity";
     ·    The indefinite detention of asylum seekers and refugees including
          children because of adverse security assessments "without meaningful
          access to legal advice or judicial review";
     ·    The reduction of freedom of association from Queensland's "anti-bikie"
          laws;
     ·    Constraints on judicial power to assess individual circumstances due
          to "a spate of mandatory sentencing laws".


Triggs also spoke at length about the significant expansion of counter-terrorism
powers in Australia on the grounds of community safety, arguing the strength of
the rule of law was "more truly tested when security is threatened than in times
of peace".

"To the extent that Australia is threatened by terrorism, the need to protect
our traditional liberties and freedoms assumes an even greater urgency," she
said.

"Many laws introduced with unseemly haste before Christmas in the name of
national security go well beyond what might be deemed to necessary, creating a
chilling effect on freedom of speech and the press and breaching the right to
privacy."

Referring to the data retention laws passed with bipartisan support in March,
Triggs said it was curious that a "journalist information warrant" was required
to access the call logs of a reporter but such a warrant was not needed for
agencies to look at other citizens' metadata.

"As the metadata will be collected in respect of most of the 23 million
Australians, and those involved in terrorism or paedophilia are very few, it
might be said that the act employs a sledgehammer to crack a nut," she said.

Triggs also raised concerns that accused persons would face an evidentiary
burden to defend themselves against a 10-year prison sentence for entering
"declared areas" listed by the foreign affairs minister under the Foreign
Fighters Act.

She said the same act introduced a new offence of advocating terrorism, "an
imprecise crime whose scope may cover, for example, opposing the Assad regime in
Syria or supporting Palestinian efforts to gain statehood".

Other national security laws passed last year created an offence punishable by
up to 10 years in jail for disclosing information about a "special intelligence
operation", which was likely to "have a chilling effect on legitimate public
debate about security operations", Triggs said.

"The overreach of executive power is clear in the yet-to-be defined proposal
that those accused of being jihadists fighting against Australian interests will
be stripped of their citizenship if they are potentially dual nationals," she
said.

"This proposal strikes at the heart of Australia as a largely migrant nation.
Not only may this idea violate Australia's international obligation not to
render a person stateless, but also the decision may be at the discretion of a
minister, without recourse to judicial processes.

"This proposal is not new. It follows a bill introduced last year to give the
minister discretion to revoke citizenship for fraud or misrepresentation, or
where the minister is 'satisfied' that a person is not of good character, all
without trial or conviction. The debate, it seems, is between the subjective
suspicions of a minister, versus an evidence-based determination by a judge
according to established rule of law."

Related: Gillian Triggs accused of 'slur' by linking Bali Nine deaths to asylum
seeker policy

The Coalition has faced criticism from legal experts over its citizenship
proposals, ahead of the introduction of a bill during the next sitting of
parliament that would allow the immigration minister, Peter Dutton, to target
dual nationals.

The government deferred a decision on a related proposal to allow the minister
to also revoke the citizenship of sole nationals who might be able to apply for
citizenship elsewhere, following a cabinet backlash.

The prime minister, Tony Abbott, said the government subscribed to the "very
clear principle" that "anyone who raises a gun or a knife to an Australian
because of who we are has utterly forfeited any right to be considered one of
us".

But the criteria and procedure for such ministerial determinations remains
unclear because the legislation is yet to be released.

Dutton suggested on Friday that affected persons could apply for a judicial
review on limited grounds.

Asked whether the review would apply only to the process rather than the
substance of the claims against the person, Dutton said: "It relates to that
part of the decision, you're right, and the government's not going to have the
court second-guessing ministerial decisions."

Before she delivered her speech on Friday about the need for parliaments to
"meet their obligations as a check on executive government", Triggs was strongly
criticised by Dutton for earlier comments about "the consequences" of turning
asylum-seeker boats back towards Indonesia.

She was reported by the Australian newspaper to have said: "Is it any wonder
that Indonesia will not engage with us on other issues that we care about, like
the death penalty?"

Triggs's office said she was reflecting on the death penalty in the region
broadly, rather than specific cases, but Dutton said it was an "outrageous slur"
to link the death of two of the Bali Nine drug smugglers to Australia's asylum
seeker policy.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The National (Scotland)

                              June 5, 2015 Friday

Burned laptop used in Glasgow Airport terror attack goes on display

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 101 words


A BADLY burned laptop used in the 2007 Glasgow Airport terror attack is one of
about 600 objects linked to infamous crimes on show outside Scotland Yard for
the first time.

The sneak peek at artefacts from the Metropolitan Police Crime Museum - also
known as the Black Museum, open only to police professionals and invited guests
- took place at the Museum of London.

It came ahead of the Crime Museum Uncovered exhibition, which opens in October,
featuring objects from the 1820s up to 2007.

Also part of the exhibition will be "microdots" containing secret messages used
by the Portland Soviet spy ring in 1961.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 5, 2015 Friday 12:08 PM GMT

US report claiming Saudi Arabia financed 9/11 attack 'redacted by Bush';
A redacted Senate report accuses Saudi Arabia of financing the September 2001
terrorist attacks, an American senator says

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 351 words


An American senator has claimed that a secret official report blaming Saudi
Arabia for financing the 9/11 attacks was redacted by George W Bush.

Bob Graham, former chairman of the US Senate Intelligence Committee, said that
the report shows Saudi Arabia was the "principle financier" of the attacks.
Fifteen of the 19 hijackers were from Saudi Arabia, but previous investigations
failed to find a link between the country and the terrorist attack, which killed
2,996 people.

Mr Graham told The Times that a 28-page chapter of the 2002 Senate report,
entitled Joint Inquiry into Intelligence Community Activities Before and After
the Terrorist Attacks of September 2001, had been withheld to protect the
country. Now retired, he is campaigning for its release.

The Times reported that the pages are thought to deal with Nawaf al-Hamzi and
Khalid al-Mihdar, two Saudis who helped hijack the plane that was flown in to
the Pentagon. They were said to have been in touch with a man who was in contact
with the Saudi Arabian embassy in Washington. The embassy has, however, denied
that he was a spy.

Rand Paul, the Republican presidential candidate, is also campaigning for the
release of the redacted pages .

"Information revealed over the years does raise questions about [Saudi Arabia's]
support, or whether their support might have been supportive to these al Qaeda
terrorists," said Mr Paul, flanked by families of 9/11 victims, House
co-sponsors and Mr Graham.

"We cannot let page after page of blanked-out documents be obscured behind a
veil, leading these families to wonder if there is additional information
surrounding these horrible acts."

He said that the report "will cause the American government to reconsider the
nature of our relationship with Saudi Arabia."

Terry Strada, who leads 9/11 Families and Survivors United For Justice Against
Terrorism, said that the supposed Saudi funding link was not a surprise.

"Nearly every significant element that led to the attacks of Sept. 11 points to
Saudi Arabia," he said. "Money is the lifeblood of terrorism. Without money,
9/11 wouldn't have happened."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 7, 2015 Sunday

Saudi police arrest 45 suspects in connection with recent terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 267 words


Text of report in English by Saudi newspaper Arab News website on 7 June

[Unattributed report: "Forty five held in connection with mosque bombings"].

Jiddah, 7 June 2015: A total of 45 suspects have been detained in the last three
days in connection with last month's bombing of two mosques in the Eastern
Province and the 8 May  terrorist attack on officer Majid al-Ghamdi.

The Interior Ministry has, meanwhile, denied reports that one of the arrested
men in Riyadh is on the list of 16 wanted suspects. The ministry recently
released the pictures of the 16 suspects wanted in the mosque attacks and
announced huge rewards for information leading to their arrest.

Terror attacks on two successive Fridays during congregational prayers caused a
huge loss of life and drew national and international condemnation. A total of
21 worshippers were killed and more than 100 injured in the attack on Ali Bin
Abi Talib Mosque in Qatif on 23 May. The Al-Anud Mosque in Dammam was attacked
on 29 May, claiming four lives and leaving an unspecified number of worshippers
injured. Da'ish claimed responsibility for both attacks.

Riyadh police also issued a denial on reports about a security patrol coming
under gunfire in the capital. It said that the patrol met with an accident while
chasing a suspicious vehicle, which was seized shortly afterward. As part of
tough security measures across the kingdom following the terror attacks,
worshippers were searched and a tight vigil was maintained at mosques last
Friday [5 June]. The tough measures will remain in force.

Source: Arab News website, Jedda, in English 7 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Belfast Telegraph

                              June 8, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Anti-tank rockets added to terrorist arsenal;
Attack fears grow as dissidents build armour-piercing weapon

BYLINE: TOM BRADY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 108 words


DISSIDENT republicans now have the ability to make antitank-type weapons, it can
be revealed.

Arms finds by police in the Republic suggest that one renegade group has made
major progress in perfecting their terror technology. There are fears that the
advances could signal a new spate of attacks on PSNI vehicles and stations.

"This is a very worrying development and there are serious concerns on both
sides of the border," a Garda source said. One breakaway faction called ONH has
been focused on building a new rocket-propelled anti-tank weapon even more
effective than previous mortars used to deadly effect by the Provisional IRA.

FULL STORY, PAGE 4

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BTT


                Copyright 2015 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              June 8, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;

POLICE IN KNIFE ATTACK TERROR;
Officers feared they would be stabbed as man lunged at their car with blades and
baseball bat

BYLINE: ELWYN ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 34 words


TWO police officers feared they'd be stabbed as a man brandishing two knives and
a baseball bat attacked their car.

Nathan Davies, 25, is in custody after the early morning incident in Mold.

FULL STORY - PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DPW


                       Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 8, 2015 Monday 12:39 PM GMT

Iraq to form special 'oil army' to fend off Isil threat;
A 27,000-strong security force will be trained and equipped to defend its oil
and energy facilities from terror attacks

BYLINE: By Andrew Critchlow Commodities editor

SECTION: FINANCE

LENGTH: 1593 words


Iraq is mobilising a 27,000 strong army of security personnel to protect its oil
and energy facilities from attacks by Islamic State insurgents.

Adel Abdel Mahdi, Iraq's oil minister, gave details of the new force at the end
of the meetings of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec).

The onslaught of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) has raised
concern's that Baghdad's vast oil fields and complex network of refineries and
pipelines are vulnerable to attack and sabotage .

·                      Why business is booming under Islamic State one year on

· 'Between the hammer and the anvil' - how Isil has spelt doom for Iraq's Sunnis

Mr Abdel Mahdi said that the security force, which essentially amounts to an oil
army, would be drawn from an existing energy police corp that is under control
of the country's Interior Ministry. He added that meetings will take place in
the coming weeks to finalise the structure of the force, which will receive
additional training and equipment.

"Their mission is to secure all oil and electricity facilities," said Mr Abdel
Mahdi.

Although Iraq has asserted that its oil facilities are safe and secure from Isil
its pipelines were frequently attacked by insurgents following the US
occupation, which followed the 2003 invasion.

Iraq is now producing close 4m barrels per day (bpd) of oil and now ranks as the
second largest producer in Opec after Saudi Arabia . British oil majors Royal
Dutch Shell and BP are both active in Iraq operating some of the country's
largest fields in the Shia-Muslim dominated South.

Iraqi troops have been fighting Isil forces dug in around the major Baiji oil
refinery just over 100 miles North of Baghdad.

.global__group{zoom:1}.global__group:after,.global__group:before{content:'';disp
lay:table}.global__group:after{clear:both}.float--left{display:-moz-inline-stack
;display:inline-block;vertical-align:top;zoom:1}.timeline__container.is__mobile{
padding-left:4.687%;padding-right:4.687%}.timeline__title{margin-bottom:20px}.ti
meline__title__headline{font-family:Georgia,serif;font-size:24px;line-height:28p
x;color:#B10D18;margin-bottom:15px}.timeline__title__subtitle{-webkit-font-smoot
hing:antialiased;font-family:'Telesans Text
Web';font-size:15px;line-height:21px;color:#565656}.timeline__main{-webkit-font-
smoothing:antialiased;font-family:'Telesans Text
Web';position:relative;color:#565656;font-size:15px;line-height:21px}.timeline__
element{background-color:#F4F4F0;padding:15px 20px 20px
35px}.timeline__element+.timeline__element{margin-top:3px}.timeline__element__le
ftCont{margin-right:10px;width:13px;height:15px}.timeline__element__bar{height:1
00%;width:1px;background-color:#777}.timeline__element__title{position:relative;
margin-bottom:10px}.timeline__element__title:after{width:13px;height:13px;backgr
ound-image:url(http://s.telegraph.co.uk/graphics/TimelineGenerator/img/diamond.p
ng);content:'';left:-25px;position:absolute;top:2px}.timeline__element__subtitle
{font-size:18px;font-weight:700;line-height:21px;margin-bottom:10px}.timeline__e
lement__date{font-weight:700}.timeline__element__time{color:#B10D18}.timeline__e
lement__media__image{width:100%;max-width:620px}.timeline__element__media__image
image{display:block}.video--container{position:relative;width:100%;max-width:620
px;margin-bottom:5px}.video--player{padding-bottom:56.27%}.video--player
.innerWrapper{width:auto!important;height:auto!important;position:absolute!impor
tant;top:0;right:0;left:0;bottom:0}.timeline__element__media__caption{font-size:
13px;color:#777;margin-bottom:20px}.timeline__element__text+.timeline__element__
title{margin-top:25px}.timeline__bar{position:absolute;top:0;left:16px;height:10
0%;width:1px}.timeline__bar__fill{position:absolute;height:auto;bottom:0;top:0;l
eft:0;right:0;margin-top:20px;margin-right:0;margin-left:0;background-color:#777
;width:100%}.video--container__ooyala--padding{width:100%;padding-bottom:56.25%;
position:relative}.video--container__ooyala{position:absolute;top:0;bottom:0;lef
t:0;right:0}The rise of Islamic State: timelineFall of RaqqaMarch 6 2013Raqqa in
Syria falls to Isil, becoming the de facto capital of the jihadists' embryonic
stateFall of MosulJune 10 2014Mosul in northern Iraq falls to Isil, becoming its
second de facto capital. Half a million people escape on foot or by car in just
two daysCamp Speicher massacreJune 12 2014Isil kills at least 1566 Iraqi air
force cadets as it attacks Camp Speicher, near the city of TikritFall of
TikritJune 30 2014Tikrit in Iraq, the birthplace of Saddam Hussein, falls to
Isil Militants from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) lead away
captured Iraqi soldiers in Tikrit (AP)Isil declares an 'Islamic Caliphate'June
29 2014The group proclaims itself a caliphate, naming Abu Bakr al Baghdadi as
its leader, or caliph. Changes name to Islam  tmgAds.embedPlayer =
tmgAds.embedPlayer || {}; tmgAds.embedPlayer =
{width:620,height:349,size:'620x349',vidSize:'620x415'};
if(typeof(tmgAds.page.platform) != 'undefined' && tmgAds.page.platform ===
"mobile") tmgAds.embedPlayer =
{width:300,height:169,size:'300x169',vidSize:'300x235'}; tmgAds.embedPlayer = {
'targetId' : 'embedPlayerWrapper', 'platform' : tmgAds.page.platform, 'width' :
tmgAds.embedPlayer.width, 'height' : tmgAds.embedPlayer.height, 'size' :
tmgAds.embedPlayer.size, 'autoplay' : 'false', 'vidEmbed' :
'Y2c29pbjoSfbEIoy8NMrmx14A5wrz3YG', 'adTag' :
tmgAdsBuildAdTag("vid",tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidSize,"pfadx",";vidsrc=tmg;vt=embed;
dcmt=text/xml",3) } tmgAds.embedPlayer.remotesrc =
'http://s.telegraph.co.uk/tmgads/tools/ooyala/iframeplayer.html?platform='+tmgAd
s.page.platform+'&width="100%"&height="100%"&size='+tmgAds.embedPlayer.size+'&vi
dEmbed='+tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidEmbed+'&adTag='+encodeURIComponent(tmgAds.embedPl
ayer.adTag); tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer = '';
document.write(tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer);  Yazidis flee into Sinjar
mountainsAugust 3 2014Isil captures the northern Iraqi cities of Zuman, Sinjar
and Wana. Thousands of Yazidis flee into  tmgAds.embedPlayer =
tmgAds.embedPlayer || {}; tmgAds.embedPlayer =
{width:620,height:349,size:'620x349',vidSize:'620x415'};
if(typeof(tmgAds.page.platform) != 'undefined' && tmgAds.page.platform ===
"mobile") tmgAds.embedPlayer =
{width:300,height:169,size:'300x169',vidSize:'300x235'}; tmgAds.embedPlayer = {
'targetId' : 'embedPlayerWrapper', 'platform' : tmgAds.page.platform, 'width' :
tmgAds.embedPlayer.width, 'height' : tmgAds.embedPlayer.height, 'size' :
tmgAds.embedPlayer.size, 'autoplay' : 'false', 'vidEmbed' :
'JpMTJsbzr5BRe7WPiw620OSXPcpnhlgu', 'adTag' :
tmgAdsBuildAdTag("vid",tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidSize,"pfadx",";vidsrc=tmg;vt=embed;
dcmt=text/xml",3) } tmgAds.embedPlayer.remotesrc =
'http://s.telegraph.co.uk/tmgads/tools/ooyala/iframeplayer.html?platform='+tmgAd
s.page.platform+'&width="100%"&height="100%"&size='+tmgAds.embedPlayer.size+'&vi
dEmbed='+tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidEmbed+'&adTag='+encodeURIComponent(tmgAds.embedPl
ayer.adTag); tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer = '';
document.write(tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer);  US humanitarian
missionAugust 7 2014US launches humanitarian mission to prevent a massacre of
the Yazidis Thousands of Yezidis were forced to flee into the Sinjar mountains
(GETTY IMAGES)US bombing campaign beginsAugust 8 2014US begins aerial bombing
campaign in IraqMurder of James FoleyAugust 19 2014Isil releases video showing
the first beheading of a western hostage, American journalist James Foley
Journalist James Foley in Aleppo, Syria, in July 2012Egyptian Christian
murdersFebruary 15 2015Isil in Libya releases video showing the execution of 21
Christians . Most are EgyptianEgypt retaliatesFebruary 16 2015Egypt runs
retaliatory bombing raids over Isil targets in Libyaal-Baghdadi reportedly
injuredMarch 18 2015Isil leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi reportedly suffers serious
spinal injuries in a coalition airstrike Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi (Getty Images)Iraq
wins back TikritApril 17 2015Iraqi security forces reclaim Tikrit, backed by US
airstrikesLibya executionsApril 19 2015Isil in Libya releases video showing the
execution of around 30 Christians from Eritrea and EthiopiaFall of RamadiMay 17
2015City of Ramadi in central Iraq falls to Isil Isil fighters pose for a photo
in Ramadi (Barzan Sadiq)Fall of PalmyraMay 20 2015Isil captures Syrian city of
Palmyra, carrying out executions in the streets and, later, in the ancient
amphitheatre  tmgAds.embedPlayer = tmgAds.embedPlayer || {}; tmgAds.embedPlayer
= {width:620,height:349,size:'620x349',vidSize:'620x415'};
if(typeof(tmgAds.page.platform) != 'undefined' && tmgAds.page.platform ===
"mobile") tmgAds.embedPlayer =
{width:300,height:169,size:'300x169',vidSize:'300x235'}; tmgAds.embedPlayer = {
'targetId' : 'embedPlayerWrapper', 'platform' : tmgAds.page.platform, 'width' :
tmgAds.embedPlayer.width, 'height' : tmgAds.embedPlayer.height, 'size' :
tmgAds.embedPlayer.size, 'autoplay' : 'false', 'vidEmbed' :
'JmZ2IzdTqDpqcq_dZnQ7Kk0w79WwKTnS', 'adTag' :
tmgAdsBuildAdTag("vid",tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidSize,"pfadx",";vidsrc=tmg;vt=embed;
dcmt=text/xml",3) } tmgAds.embedPlayer.remotesrc =
'http://s.telegraph.co.uk/tmgads/tools/ooyala/iframeplayer.html?platform='+tmgAd
s.page.platform+'&width="100%"&height="100%"&size='+tmgAds.embedPlayer.size+'&vi
dEmbed='+tmgAds.embedPlayer.vidEmbed+'&adTag='+encodeURIComponent(tmgAds.embedPl
ayer.adTag); tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer = '';
document.write(tmgAds.embedPlayer.tmgEmbedPlayer);

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 8, 2015 Monday 7:45 AM GMT

Iraq to form special 'oil army' to fend off Isil threat;
A 27,000-strong security force will be trained and equipped to defend its oil
and energy facilities from terror attacks

BYLINE: By Andrew Critchlow Commodities editor

SECTION: FINANCE

LENGTH: 258 words


Iraq is mobilising a 27,000 strong army of security personnel to protect its oil
and energy facilities from attacks by Islamic State insurgents.

Adel Abdel Mahdi, Iraq's oil minister, gave details of the new force at the end
of the meetings of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec).

The onslaught of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) has raised
concern's that Baghdad's vast oil fields and complex network of refineries and
pipelines are vulnerable to attack and sabotage .

Mr Abdel Mahdi said that the security force, which essentially amounts to an oil
army, would be drawn from an existing energy police corp that is under control
of the country's Interior Ministry. He added that meetings will take place in
the coming weeks to finalise the structure of the force, which will receive
additional training and equipment.

"Their mission is to secure all oil and electricity facilities," said Mr Abdel
Mahdi.

Although Iraq has asserted that its oil facilities are safe and secure from Isil
its pipelines were frequently attacked by insurgents following the US
occupation, which followed the 2003 invasion.

Iraq is now producing close 4m barrels per day (bpd) of oil and now ranks as the
second largest producer in Opec after Saudi Arabia . British oil majors Royal
Dutch Shell and BP are both active in Iraq operating some of the country's
largest fields in the Shia-Muslim dominated South.

Iraqi troops have been fighting Isil forces dug in around the major Baiji oil
refinery just over 100 miles North of Baghdad.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday

Egypt antiquities minister inspects Karnak temple after foiled terror attack

LENGTH: 74 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 10 June: Antiquities Minister Mamduh al-Damati is heading to the tourist
city of Luxor to inspect the situation on the ground after a foiled terrorist
attack on Wednesday [10 June].

Security forces foiled an attempt to detonate a tourist bus near Karnak Temple
in Luxor.

The minister said the attack happened outside the temple.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1128gmt 10 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 10, 2015 Wednesday

Egypt's Al-Azhar slams Luxor "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 158 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 10 June: Al-Azhar [the highest Sunni authority in the Muslim world]
slammed Wednesday [10 June] the failed terrorist attack that targeted the Karnak
Temple in Luxor [south of Cairo] earlier in the day.

In a statement, Al-Azhar hailed efforts exerted by the Egyptian police to thwart
such kinds of terrorist plots.

Such attacks will not undermine the determination of the Egyptian people and
government to uproot terrorism, the statement said.

"This brutal terrorism seeks to destroy the state," the statement said, citing
the timing of the attack, which coincides with the third COMESA-EAC-SADC
Tripartite Summit, now held in Sharm al-Shaykh.

Al-Azhar urged the Egyptian people to unite in the face of terrorism.

Two terrorists were killed and a third was injured in a failed terrorist attack
against Karnak Temple earlier in the day.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1354gmt 10 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      June 10, 2015 Wednesday 2:23 PM GMT

Luxor terror attack: Suicide bomber blows himself up on site of ancient temple
of Karnak

BYLINE: Emily Fox & Alix Culbertson

LENGTH: 613 words


A SUICIDE bomber blew himself up today just steps away from the ancient Egyptian
temple of Karnak in Luxor - a city visited by millions of tourists every year.

AP

Temple of Karnak, in the historic town of Luxor in Upper Egypt

Security and health officials confirmed four Egyptians were injured, including
two policemen but no one has died.

Shortly after the explosion, police exchanged fire with and killed two suspected
Islamic militants who had arrived at the sprawling, Nile-side temple together
with the suicide bomber, the officials said.

There were only a handful of tourists and Egyptians inside the temple at the
time of the late morning attack, the officials added, speaking on condition of
anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the media.

The attack is the first to target the world-famous attraction since 1997.

Tourism is the lifeblood of Luxor, home to some of Egypt's most famous ancient
temples and pharaonic tombs, including that of King Tutankhamun.

Following Egypt's 2011 uprising Islamist militants have killed hundreds of
police and soldiers in a campaign to topple the Egyptian government, but there
have recently been attacks on softer tourist and economic targets.

The city has been hit hard by a downturn in foreign visitors during the years of
unrest since the uprising.

Gunmen on a motorcycle shot dead two members of Egypt's tourism and antiquities
police force on a road near the Giza pyramids last week.

The Interior Ministry said in a statement today it had "foiled a terrorist
attack" at Karnak and that two assailants had been killed and a third wounded.
It did not give further details.

AP

A covered body is seen next to a damaged shop at the site of attack near the
Karnak temple in Luxor Related articles German tourist dies after losing leg in
horrifying shark attack Egypt sentences Sainsbury's boss to jail after failed
supermarket deal

AP

Clothes strewn on the floor of the ancient city

Security sources said the casualties at Karnak included bazaar shop owners and
two policemen. No tourists were wounded, according to government officials.

Images from the scene of the explosion showed what appeared to be body parts on
the ground in front of a tourist shop and atop a public restroom. Uniformed and
plainclothes police gathered nearby, and ambulances were parked beside tourist
buses.

Antiquities Minister Mamdouh al-Damaty said he had, in coordination with the
Interior Ministry, ordered security to be bolstered at ancient sites across
Egypt.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for Wednesday's attack, but it
bore the hallmarks of Islamic militants who have been battling security forces
in the strategic Sinai Peninsula for years. Extremists in Sinai have targeted
tourism sites to try to deny the government a key source of revenue.

Conflicting reports about the Karnak attack were coming in, with a senior
Interior Ministry security sources saying the attackers tried to target a
tourist bus before security forces engaged them, while other security sources
and witnesses said the men had tried to storm a barricade to enter the site.

One blew himself up, while the others engaged in the gunfight in which both were
badly wounded. One died on the way to hospital.

Last year, the Sinai-based insurgent group Ansar Beit al-Maqdis pledged
allegiance to the Islamic State group, which has destroyed famed archaeological
sites in Syria and Iraq, viewing them as idolatrous.

The campaign of violence in Sinai accelerated and spread to other parts of Egypt
following the 2013 military overthrow of Islamist President Mohammed Morsi. The
militants say the attacks are in revenge for a massive crackdown on Islamists
underway in Egypt.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      June 10, 2015 Wednesday 4:39 PM GMT

I love to travel to museums, galleries and historic sites - just please don't
call me a tourist;
The ancient site of Luxor in Egypt, which has suffered an attempted terrorist
attack, has been dismissed as a tourist city. It's so much more than that

BYLINE: Jonathan Jones

SECTION: ART AND DESIGN

LENGTH: 408 words


Tourist. It's a word I hate. It divides people, simplifies them, prejudges
motives and behaviour, and trivialises what are often the greatest experiences
and most sincere passions in our lives.

The troubled expatriates in Paul Bowles' novel The Sheltering Sky pride
themselves on being "travellers", not "tourists". In reality, we are all a bit
of both. I was definitely a tourist by Bowles' standards when I recently visited
Marrakech. But we spent a lot of the time looking at masterpieces of Islamic
art, including the gorgeously intricate decorations of the Ben-Youssef Madrasa
and the Minba from the Kutubiyya mosque in the El Badi palace. So, yeah, tourism
if you insist, but also an education.

Now, once again an attack on a unique site of world culture is being described
as an attack on "tourists". Luxor in Egypt is a " tourist city", according to
the Guardian. This phenomenal ancient creation is "one of Egypt's most popular
tourist sites".

Wait a minute. Don't you think some visitors to Luxor may be Egyptologists, or
lovers of antiquity, or simply people with a passion for history and beauty?

Is it not possible that some visitors to this sublime place may even be
Egyptians?

Mercifully, this terrorist attack seems to have been less lethal than the recent
massacre at the Bardo museum in Tunisia. That, too, was reported as an attack on
a "tourist attraction". So the slain have gone down in history as "tourists" -
an incredibly dismissive word for people who were there to look at ancient Roman
mosaics. Why not "lovers of antiquity"?

In Tunisia, thousands of people marched to the stricken museum to protest
against terrorism. They were showing solidarity with the murdered "tourists" -
or, rather, with fellow human beings.

The casual use of the term "tourism" disturbs me because it mirrors how
terrorists themselves see places such as Luxor and the Bardo national museum.
"Tourists" are - the stereotype goes - affluent, superficial westerners who can
afford to travel for mere diversion without caring much about the places they
visit.

But "tourist attractions" are not just full of shallow westerners taking
selfies. Visiting the vast, eerie ruins of the El Badi palace in Morocco, we
shared its grandeur with hundreds of joyous local school kids. This is as much a
place for local people as for "tourists". And even the "tourists" don't
necessarily come out of mere selfishness. We might actually be trying to expand
our horizons.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      June 10, 2015 Wednesday 6:26 PM GMT

Saudi Arabia mosque bombing: Mother of man who died stopping Isis suicide
attacker offers her condolences to terrorist's mother;
"I know that your heart is just like mine now - afflicted and full of pain,"
said Kowther al-Arbash

BYLINE: Kashmira Gander

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 430 words


The mother of a young man who died stopping an Isis suicide bomber from killing
hundreds of worshippers at a mosque in Saudi Arabia, has offered her condolences
to the family of the man who killed her son.

Mohammed Hassan Ali bin Isa and his two cousins, Abdel Jalil and Mohammed
al-Arbash, were guarding a civilian checkpoint as volunteers, when they turned
an attacker away from the Imam Hussein mosque in the eastern city Dammam.

The men were killed as they chased the bomber away and he detonated the
explosives in the mosque car park, Mohammed Idris, an eyewitness, told the
Associated Press.

Days before he died, Hassan Ali bin Isa had graduated from high school and
planned to travel to London to improve his English before he started university.

In a poignant piece entitled "Goodbye forever, my son", writer Kowther al-Arbash
praises Ali bin Isa for his "fearlessness", calls on the nation to tackle deadly
ignorance, and attempts to comfort the mother of the suicide bomber who she says
is also mourning a loss.

Read more: Volunteer security guards hailed heroes for stopping bomberWar with
Isis: If Saudis aren't fuelling the militant inferno, who is?

"My son [...] gave his life to protect worshippers - instead of running away
from a terrorist bearing a belt of explosives, he jumped towards him," al-Arbash
writes in Middle East Eye.

"He loved life, but he chose the more difficult path," she adds.

Lovingly recalling her son's "easy manner", his growing ambitions and his love
for helping others, al-Arbash highlights Hassan Ali bin Isa's "strong belief in
the concept of humanitarianism" and "his fearlessness and his refusal to flee."

Timeline: The emergence of Isis

"Mohammed left behind him an act that will never be forgotten by hundreds of
worshippers, millions of citizens and even the entire world," the mother writes.



Offering a stark warning of the threat of extremist, al-Arbash invokes her son's
distaste for sectarianism, and tells readers: "After all the immense sadness,
the voice of truth remains - we must all pay attention to it. We are all
targets: our flesh, our society, our solidarity are all at risk."

"These attacks won't stop unless we revise our religious and cultural heritage,
and unless we identify the real enemy: ignorance[...]we must not be carved apart
by calls for sectarianism and exclusion."

Extending her thought to the mother of the suicide bomber, she concludes: "As
well as consoling myself, I express condolences to the mother of the man who
killed my son. I know that your heart is just like mine now - afflicted and full
of pain."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      June 10, 2015 Wednesday 11:40 AM GMT

Egypt heightens security measures at Giza pyramids as 'Islamist' militants
target ancient sites;
A terror attack on the southern tourist city of Luxor has raised alarms

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 212 words


Security measures at the ancient pyramids of Giza are being heightened ahead of
an expected Islamist terror attack in the wake of a suicide bombing in Luxor.

At least three militants were stopped by police as they assaulted the Temple of
Karnak in the southern tourist city late on Wednesday morning, prompting fears
of further coordinated attacks.

Last week gunmen opened fire on police on a road near the Giza pyramids, Egypt's
most popular tourist destination, and the director of the area Kamal Wahid said
they were braced for further incidents.

Speaking to local al-Bawaba news, he said extra security checks had been ordered
on any visitors to the site and that a heightened terror alert was in place.

He said he was "well aware" of the threat to archaeological sites after recent
well-publicised attempts by the Isis militant group to seize and destroy ancient
monuments in Syria and Iraq. Ancient monuments under Isis threat

Isis-affiliated terror groups have been battling the authorities in the Sinai
peninsular region for years, and the attack on Luxor was believed to carry all
the hallmarks of their work.

Wahid said a (EURO)15 million project to enhance security measures, including
the widespread use of CCTV cameras, was close to completion at the pyramids
site.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      June 10, 2015 Wednesday 11:20 AM GMT

Egypt terror attack: Suicide bomber targets ancient Temple of Karnak popular
with tourists;
Officials were not immediately able to confirm numbers of casualties

BYLINE: Adam Withnall

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 332 words


Egyptian officials say a suicide bomber has blown himself up as part of a
coordinated terror attack on the ancient Temple of Karnak, a hugely popular
tourist destination.

Police officials have said they foiled at attack and that at least two militants
had been killed and a third wounded, while a car used by the attackers exploded.

According to Reuters, officials said four Egyptians were injured including at
least one member of the security forces. There were not thought to be any
injuries to tourists in the incident in the southern city of Luxor, which
welcomes millions of visitors every year.

The temple is one of the most important historic ancient Egyptian attractions in
the country, second only to the pyramids at Giza in numbers of tourist visits.

Officials, who spoke anonymously, said police had previously foiled two other
suicide attack attempts on the temple.

The Associated Press reported that while there was no immediate claim of
responsibility, the incident bore the hallmarks of Islamist militants who have
been battling authorities in the Sinai for years. Groups have previously pledged
allegiance to the Isis militant organisation, which has destroyed a number of
ancient sites across Syria and Iraq in recent years.

The attack was the first to target world-famous attractions in Luxor since
November 1997, when Islamic militants opened fire on tourists at the city's
3,400-year-old Hatshepsut Temple on the west bank of the Nile, killing 58.
Ancient monuments under Isis threat

The Temple of Karnak is a vast, sprawling open-air museum, thought to be the
second-largest ancient site in the world after Cambodia's Angkor Wat.

It is one of the highlights of Luxor, which largely survives on tourism and has
some of Egypt's most famous ancient artefacts and pharaonic tombs, including
that of King Tutankhamun.

The city has been hit hard by a downturn in foreign visitors during the years of
unrest since Egypt's 2011 uprising.

More follows

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday

Egyptian presidency denies "terrorist attack" against its vehicles - TV

LENGTH: 134 words


The presidency has denied a "terrorist attack" against its vehicles on their way
from Sharm al-Shaykh resort of South Sinai to Cairo, state-owned Nile News TV
reported.

At 0757 gmt on 11 June, the channel carried an "urgent" screen caption reading:
"The presidency denies a terrorist attack against its vehicles on their way from
Sharm al-Shaykh" to Cairo following the African trade blocs' summit held the
previous day.

Few minutes later, the channel carried another caption reading: "The presidency
urges media outlets to check the authenticity of their news before publication."

State-owned Al-Ahram website, for its part, quoted an "informed" source as
stressing that President Abd-al-Fattah al-Sisi used "the presidency plane" on
his way to Cairo.

Source: Nile News TV, Cairo, in Arabic 0807gmt 11 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday

Arab League chief condemns Egypt's foiled terrorist attack

LENGTH: 124 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 11 June: Arab League Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi has strongly
condemned the foiled terrorist attack, which took place yesterday [Wednesday, 10
June] in the vicinity of Karnak Temple in [Egypt's southern city] Luxor.

In a statement Thursday, Al-Arabi hailed the efficiency of the Egyptian security
bodies, which managed to dismantle two bombs in front of the temple.

The Arab League assured support for Egypt's efforts to combat terrorism and
punish the perpetrators, he added.

He also said that targeting temples and archaeological sites is considered a
criminal act that runs counter to Islamic and humanitarian principles.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 0915gmt 11 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday

Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood condemns Karnak temple "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 288 words


Text of report by London-based Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood website Ikhwanweb

The Freedom and Justice Party (FJP) condemns the latest Luxor [Upper Egypt]
attack in the ancient Karnak Temple, one of the most famous tourist attractions
in Egypt.

The Secretariat of the FJP in Luxor stresses that the state of failure that
prevails in the country since the 3 July, 2013 coup is not limited to security
issues while junta authorities focus all their efforts on hunting the young men
and women of the Revolution, abducting the innocent and jailing the honorable.
In fact, a speedy spiraling collapse is impacting all aspects of life in Egypt,
with morality sacrificed, the economy destroyed, tourism failing, and Egyptians'
blood becoming cheaper than ever at home and abroad.

The FJP further stresses that the coup commander is the first and last
beneficiary of terrorizing people in Egypt and abroad with this attack for which
he is to blame, for his failures, for plotting the incident himself, or
provoking young and desperate people with his bloody crimes and atrocities that
never stopped since the 3 July, 2013 coup.

With sham investigations, and in the absence of justice altogether, we cannot
rule out the involvement of coup authorities in enticing or paying dubious
parties to carry out this attack, returning to past antics and the heinous
maneuvers of the Husni Mubarak era.

The FJP underlines that the first step for the Egyptian people in order to get
rid of this corrupt coup regime is to be fully aware of the junta's treacherous
plots to divide the country and ignite the fire of sedition among citizens.

God save Egypt and its people

Freedom and Justice Party in Luxor

Source: Ikhwanweb, London, in English 2203gmt 10 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday

Russian Foreign Ministry comment on terrorist attack in Luxor - text

LENGTH: 206 words


Text of "Comment by the Information and Press Department on the terrorist attack
in Luxor, Egypt" in English by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs website
on 11 June

On June 10, the police of the Arab Republic of Egypt prevented a major terrorist
attack against foreign travellers at the Karnak Temple in Luxor. In a shoot-out
between police and the terrorists, one terrorist was killed, another was injured
and a third committed a suicide bombing, as a result of which five Egyptian
citizens were injured. No foreign nationals, including Russians, who happened to
be near the temple, sustained any injuries.

Moscow has confirmed its principled position against, and absolute condemnation
of, any terrorist attacks, regardless of the motives of those who plan and
execute them. We declare our unfailing solidarity with the leaders and people of
Egypt in the uncompromising battle against terrorism and extremism.

The Foreign Ministry would like to repeat its current recommendations to Russian
nationals travelling to Egypt as tourists not to leave resort areas and to avoid
visiting areas with a high risk of terrorist and other criminal activity.

June 11, 2015

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in English 11 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror attack foiled at Egypt temple crowded with tourists

BYLINE: Louisa Loveluck; Magdy Samaan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 380 words


A SUICIDE bomber blew himself up near one of Egypt's most popular tourist sites
yesterday, wounding four people, including two policemen.

Although officials said no tourists were wounded, the attack at the ancient
Karnak Temple near Luxor was the second in just over a week on a major
attraction in Egypt, where tourism is a vital source of income. There were 604
tourists in the sprawling Nile-side complex at the time.

Police said they had averted a "massacre" after security officials grew
suspicious when a taxi refused a request for the car boot to be searched. One
attacker then detonated a suicide vest outside the temple. Two accomplices and a
policeman were killed in the ensuing firefight, but a local general warned that
a far bloodier outcome had been averted. "If they had managed to enter the
temple, it would have been a massacre," he told AFP news agency, saying the bags
had contained 19 fully loaded rifle magazines.

The foiled attack raises uncomfortable memories of one of the darkest chapters
in Egypt's recent history. In 1997, militants turned guns and machetes on
tourists at a nearby site, killing 58 people.

Yesterday's blast raised the spectre of further attacks on the fragile tourism
industry, underscoring the fragility of President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi's promise
to restore economic stability and security to a country that has yet to recover
from the turmoil which followed its 2011 uprising.

The authorities have spent the past year trying to win tourists back to its
heritage sites and beaches, paying for glossy billboard and bus-side adverts
across London and other European capitals.

German tour operator TUI Deutschland said yesterday that it had cancelled all
excursions to Luxor. But other companies ploughed on unaffected. Mohammed
Othman, of Luxor's local association of tour operators, said four groups of
foreign tourists had visited the temple after the attack. He called it a "wake
up call" to tighten security around tourist sites.

John Casson, the British ambassador in Cairo, condemned the attack. Although
there was no claim of responsibility for the attempted attack, the militants
appeared to have been attempting a complex operation bearing the hallmarks of
Egypt's Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) loyalists, Sinai Province.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Debris in the parking lot of the temple

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             June 11, 2015 Thursday

Woman in court charged with planning terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 93 words


Silhan Ozcelik, 18, of Highbury, north London, in plea hearing charged with
preparing to carry out a terror attack after being arrested at Stansted Airport
following a flight from Germany on 16 Jan. The charge relates to an offence
which allegedly took place between 1 and 27 Oct 2014 after allegedly travelling
to by train from London to Brussels and attempting to join the Kurdistan
Workers' Party based in Germany to fight against the Islamic State group (IS,
formerly known as ISIS)in Syria. T2015 7096

Event Start Date: 2015-06-12

Event End Date: 2015-06-12

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2015 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 12, 2015 Friday

Mideast Arabic press say "life defeats terrorism" after Egypt's attack

LENGTH: 608 words


Middle East dailies on 12 June discussed the attempted suicide attack on Karnak
Temple in Luxor in Upper Egypt.

Egyptian dailies stressed that tourism movement was not harmed by the attack,
with the majority of them publishing photos of tourists in Karnak Temple.

Privately-owned Al-Shuruq al-Jadid and Al-Masri al-Yawm carried almost the same
headline reading: "Life defeats terrorism in Karnak."

"Tourists defy terrorism and flock to Luxor," state-owned Al-Arahm said.

In the same vein, state-owned Al-Jumhuriyah said: "Luxor unifies world against
terrorism; 1,550 tourists visited Luxor."

"Tourism targeted"

Several editorials and writers discussed the attack's potential repercussions on
the Egyptian tourism industry.

The editorial of privately-owned Al-Yawm al-Sabi said that the real goals behind
attempts to harm tourism are represented in "its catastrophic effect on the
economy through stopping the flow of hard currency to the country, to show the
Egyptian state as a failure in controlling security conditions and to make
Egyptians feel disappointed and hopeless".

Veteran writer Abbas al-Tarabili said in the liberal Al-Wafd that Karnak attack
"aims to deal a fatal blow to tourism, especially after it started to recover.
It also aims to prevent more than five million Egyptians working in tourism from
any source of living".

Brotherhood accused

Some writers and editorials directly blame the Muslim Brotherhood [MB] for the
attack.

Karim Abd-al-Salam in Al-Yawm al-Sabi said that "the terrorist MB issues
statements denouncing terrorism in English, while assigning its cells to carry
out terrorist and suicide attacks in Arabic. It will not escape accountability
and punishment".

In the same vein, the editorial of state-owned Al-Jumhuriyah said: "The
terrorist [MB] group and its supporters and agents have announced war against
the Egyptian people after they toppled its sectarian regime and rescued the
country from a civil war."

Political solution in Yemen

Meanwhile, Yemeni papers focused on prospects of a political solution in their
country ahead of the Geneva conference between the political rivals scheduled
for 14 June.

Ahmad Salih al-Nahmi said in the Huthi-controlled Sanaa-based Al-Thawrah daily
that the Yemenis are "optimistic about the conference prospects of success in
stopping the aggression and lifting the unjust blockade" against the country.

However, Al-Nahmi expressed fears of "the Saudi attempts to foil the conference
and obstruct negotiations to reach solutions enabling Yemen to restore its
security and stability".

"Yemenis, with all their different affiliations, hope that all parties in this
conference would bear their historical and national responsibility and rescue
the country from the ravages of war, perils of the siege and dangers of
fragmentation and internal divisions," he added.

On the contrary, Abdallah al-Dahshami expressed pessimism about the results of
the conference, saying that "all Arabs who previously went to Geneva for
negotiations did not return with any fruitful results".

"The reality of the current Yemeni crisis on the ground in represented in the
violent conflict between three leading powers: the alliance of Huthi group with
[former President Ali Abdallah] Salih, the Alliance of [President Abd-Rabbuh
Mansur] Hadi with reform powers and Al-Qa'idah group, which should be excluded
from any dialogue. In order to overcome the crisis, the two alliances should
agree on a framework for a transition stage, an authority to run this stage and
start the reconstruction process for a federal state in Yemen," he added.

Source: Middle East Arabic press review from BBC Monitoring in Arabic 12 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 12, 2015 Friday

Jordan condemns Egypt terrorist attack

LENGTH: 114 words


Text of report in English by official Jordanian news agency Petra-JNA website

Amman, 11 June: Jordan has condemned the terrorist attack that targeted the
ancient Temple of Karnak in the Egyptian tourist city of Luxor.

Minister of State for Media Affairs and Communications Mohammed Momani said that
the Jordanian government strongly condemns this terrorist attack, reiterating
the Kingdom's support to Egypt in support of its fight against terrorists.

Jordan, he added, denounces all forms of terrorism, violence and attacks against
civilians across the globe, while praising the Egyptian police for foiling the
terrorist plot.

Source: Petra-JNA website, Amman, in English 1049 gmt 12 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 12, 2015 Friday 2:43 PM GMT

'The bear attacked me and bit my face': Runner describes moment he thought he
might die;
Italian man describes from his hospital bed his terror at being attacked by a
large bear while out running with his dog in the woods

BYLINE: By Nick Squires Rome

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 559 words


A trail runner has described how he was convinced he was going to be killed when
he was attacked by a large bear in the forests of northern Italy .

Wladimir Molinari was running through the woods with his dog in the Trentino
region when the large brown bear chased him and pulled him to the ground.

He is believed to be the first victim of a serious bear attack in Italy for
years, if not decades.

The experienced long-distance runner suffered serious injuries to his face, arms
and chest and will have to spend at least a month in hospital. He lost two teeth
in the attack.

"At a certain point I heard a sound behind me and there was the bear, following
me at a distance of about 10 metres," the 45-year-old told La Stampa newspaper
from his hospital bed.

"I did just as you are meant to - I stopped, raised my arms and started
gesticulating and shouting.

"But the bear attacked me and started biting me. My dog tried to drive the bear
away, but it was 10 times the size of him," Mr Molinari said.

"The bear was biting my face. I grabbed his ears and tried to push him away but
wasn't able to. I managed to grab a branch and he backed away a few metres but
then he stopped and turned back towards me.

"I beat the stick on the ground and continued to yell. I was convinced that he
was going to kill me with a last blow from his paws but instead he ran off."

Bloodied and in shock, Mr Molinari was found by a passing mountain biker, who
called for help. The runner was taken by helicopter to the nearest hospital.

The attack, which happened on Wednesday evening, took place just six miles from
the city of Trento.

Rangers are now trying to locate and trap the bear with a view to placing it in
captivity.

But some locals are calling for it to be shot and members of the centre-Right
Northern League party said the entire bear reintroduction scheme should be
scrapped and the animals removed from Italy.

Brown bears were driven almost to extinction in Italy after centuries of
trapping, shooting and poaching.

But in the late 1990s a group of 10 bears was introduced from neighbouring
Slovenia as part of a European Union-funded project to re-establish the species
in Italy.

They flourished in the alpine meadows and conifer forests and there are now
thought to be around 50 bears living in the Trentino-South Tyrol region, which
is dominated by the Dolomite chain of mountains.

While conservationists are delighted, farmers complain that the bears raid their
orchards and bee hives and kill their livestock, including sheep and goats.

They have warned for years that an attack on a human was only a matter of time.

"I have never been against the bear reintroduction programme," said Mr Molinari.
"But I think at the very least this bear needs to be captured, because it is
just too dangerous. It could do to other people what it did to me." An attempt
to capture a bear that inflicted light injuries on a mushroom collector in the
Dolomites last year did not end well.

The female bear was given a sedative but authorities apparently misjudged the
dose and the animal died.

The 18-year-old bear, known to researchers as Daniza, had attacked a 38-year-old
man who came between her and her cubs as he was foraging for mushrooms last
August.

It is thought her cubs, which were less than a year old, managed to survive the
winter and are still roaming the forests.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 13, 2015 Saturday

Iraqi cleric urges vigilance over potential terror attacks during Ramadan

LENGTH: 906 words


Text of report by Iraqi Shi'i Muslim-focused Buratha News website on 12 June

[Report on a Friday sermon which Shaykh Abd-al-Mahdi al-Karbala'i,
representative of the Higher Religious Authority, delivered at the holy
Al-Husayn Shrine in Karbala on 12 June: "The Higher Religious Authority calls on
the security agencies to be vigilant during the month of Ramadan, and calls for
studying the period that preceded last year's setback"]

The Higher Religious Authority called for supplying the intelligence agencies
with sophisticated equipment to facilitate the issue of uncovering the
terrorists' movements. It called on the security agencies to be more cautious
and vigilant during the month of Ramadan in order to foil the schemes of the
terrorist gangs of DA'ISH [Arabic acronym for ISIL]. It also called for studying
the period that preceded last year's setback in order t prevent the occurrence
of other setbacks and to correct what can be corrected.

In his Friday sermon at the holy Al-Husayn Shrine, Shaykh Abd-al-Mahdi
al-Karbala'i, representative of the Higher Religious Authority in holy Karbala,
said: "The security and intelligence agencies' efforts over the past few days
have resulted in uncovering a number of car bombs which DA'ISH prepared to
detonate in Baghdad during the blessed month of Ramadan under the name of
(Ramadan raid), which is one of its false names. The intelligence effort has
played the biggest role in this thanks to the zeal of the officers of the
intelligence agencies, who have worked day and night to uncover them." He added:
"In light of this, it has become clear that the intelligence effort is very
important in reducing the number of these criminal acts. We thank and express
appreciation and gratitude to those heroes who have protected the citizens' life
and property."

Shaykh Al-Karbala'i said: "A number of security officials have stressed the need
to supply the intelligence agencies with sophisticated equipment because they
facilitate the uncovering of the terrorists' movements, provided that the price
of such equipment is not big and this can be saved from unnecessary allocations
to accommodation, furniture, and deputation by some government departments."

He pointed out: "The Army, the police, and the volunteers have achieved
important victories in Bayji over the past few days. Backed by tribes, these
forces have also made tangible progress on the periphery of the city of Ar
Ramadi. We thank them and pray to God to protect them and achieve more victories
at their hands."

Shaykh Al-Karbala'i called on the security agencies to be more cautious,
vigilant, and alert during the blessed month of Ramadan in order to foil the
DA'ISH organization's attempts to carry out terrorist operations in Baghdad and
other areas in order to shed the blood of more people or to attack some loose
areas on battlefronts to make up for their defeats in other areas, such as the
city of Bayji.

He said: "These days mark the first anniversary of capturing Mosul and other
areas by DA'ISH which also threatens other areas. This has prompted the Higher
Religious Authority to call on Iraqis, including all their components and sects,
to volunteer and join the Armed Forces in order to protect the country and
rescue it from this tribulation." He added: "This has resulted in liberating
many areas which DA'ISH has captured. The lofty men and those who joined them,
of volunteers and genuine tribes, have done a good job in defending Iraq, its
people, and holy places, and achieved important victories thanks to their
steadfastness, patience, and great and dear sacrifices."

He pointed out: "Security and stability which we enjoy in many governorates are
because of the sacrifices and efforts of these heroes and of the citizens'
support for them and for their families. We hope that these heroic forces will
maintain the impetus of their advance and victories and be prepared to liberate
other areas as soon as possible. We also call for giving a chance to these
areas' citizens to take part in liberating their areas."

He said: "The government and the parliament should conduct a careful study of
the political, military, security, economic, social, and judicial performance at
state institutions during the period that preceded last year's setback. They
should listen to what experts say about the causes of this setback in order to
prevent the occurrence of other setbacks and to correct what can be corrected."

He added: "Many months have passed on the tragedy of Speicher Base and the
fathers, mothers, children, and wives of the victims still know nothing about
the fate of their beloved ones and wonder whether they are dead or alive. They
ask about their bodies to bury them in order to stop this irritating search and
give up these annoying feelings about the fate of their beloved ones. The thing
that increases their suffering is that they believe that some officials lack
interest in and seriousness about dealing with their demands."

Shaykh Al-Karbala'i called on those concerned to make more efforts to reveal the
fate of these beloved ones. He said: "Their families also call for alleviating
their suffering by allowing them to receive the salaries of their sons from
their governorates instead of going to the capital Baghdad to do so. They also
want to meet with the officials when the need arises. We hope that the officials
will listen to these calls."

Source: Buratha News in Arabic 12 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 15, 2015 Monday 12:02 PM GMT

Was 9/11 preventable? New report claims MORE could have been done to stop US
terror attack

BYLINE: Peter Henn

LENGTH: 405 words


A TOP American Intelligence boss denied claims he could have done more to
prevent the September 11 attacks, newly released documents say.

GETTY IMAGES

A report said more could have been done to prevent the September 11 attacks

Former CIA Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet wrote to the agency's
then-Inspector General, John Helgerson, after Mr Helgerson wrote a report
critical of Mr Tenet's department.

The report said there were 'failures to implement and manage important
processes, to follow through with operations and to properly share and analyse
critical data'.

It said: "If Intelligence Community officers had been able to view and analyse
the full range of information available before 11 September 2001, they could
have developed a more informed context in which to assess the threat reporting
of the spring and summer that year."

The report, which was released to the public in a shortened form in 2007, was
written in 2005.

It says there was no 'single point of failure' nor was there a 'silver bullet'
which would have stopped the attacks happening, but more could have been done.

The CIA's inspector general's office reported that Mr Tenet 'was either
unwilling or unable to marshall the full range of IC resources necessary to
combat the growing threat to the United States'.

GETTY IMAGES

George Tenet has denied claims he could have done more to stop the September 11
attacks

However, Mr Tenet said the criticism was unwarranted.

He wrote to Mr Helgerson, saying: "Your report challenges my professionalism,
diligence and skill in leading the men and women of U.S. intelligence in
countering terrorism.

"I did everything I could to inform, warn and motivate action to prevent harm,"
he wrote.

"Your report does not fairly or accurately portray my actions, or the heroic
work of the men and women of the Intelligence Community."

Mr Tenet said he warned Bill Clinton to 'expect five to fifteen attacks against
United States interest' shortly before the then-president left office in late
2000, and also briefed incoming president George W. Bush.

He said: "I said when the executive summary was made public eight years ago that
the IG's report was flat wrong.

"Nothing in the additional material just released changes that judgment in the
slightest."

Related articles Film shows helicopter view of 9/11 Top 10 facts about September
11 Pakistan shuts Save The Children offices amid links to CIA killing of Osama
Bin Laden

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        June 15, 2015 Monday 3:39 PM GMT

Kenya police and military accused of victimising Muslims over terror attacks;
Rights groups demand greater oversight of security forces after claims they
responded to al-Shabaab assaults last year with arbitrary beatings and arrests

BYLINE: Mark Anderson

SECTION: GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT

LENGTH: 933 words


Kenyan security forces were slow to respond to attacks on villages along the
country's coast last year and afterwards arbitrarily detained and beat Muslims
and ethnic Somalis as well as stealing personal property, claims a report by
rights groups.

Human Rights Watch (HRW) and the Kenya Human Rights Commission urged the
government to increase its oversight of police and military investigations,
noting that a year after the deadly coastal attacks, for which the Islamist
group al-Shabaab claimed responsibility, no one has been held accountable.

Kenya is facing its most serious security crisis in decades as al-Shabaab wages
a campaign of terror along its border with Somalia, with sporadic attacks
elsewhere. In April, the terror group laid siege to Garissa University campus,
killing 148 people.

In the report, Insult to Injury: The 2014 Lamu and Tana River Attacks and
Kenya's Abusive Response, the rights groups documented assaults on the coastal
town of Mpeketoni, near the tourist island of Lamu, and on several other
villages in the Lamu and Tana River counties in June and July 2014. At least 87
people were killed in the attacks.

The deadliest assault happened in Mpeketoni, where armed men drove into town,
threw explosives into the police station and shot civilians at random, killing
at least 48 people.

In interviews in eight villages in the area in October, the rights groups
recorded not only witness accounts of the attacks but also allegations of abuse
by security forces.

The report, published on Monday, said hundreds of people had been beaten and
detained without charge while communities remained vulnerable to further
attacks. It criticised security services for failing to respond and for
detaining terror suspects on flimsy charges for longer than 24 hours, the
maximum amount of time suspects can be held without charge under Kenyan law.

"I think they only stopped beating us because they were tired," one 42-year-old
man, who was detained by Kenyan police last year, told researchers.

Leslie Lefkow, the deputy Africa director of HRW, said: "There's a pattern here
of the authorities scapegoating the wrong targets in their response to terrorist
attacks. Whether that's beating up and rounding up community members because of
their ethnicity or their religion, or what we've seen with the way that they've
gone after some of the NGOs on the coast, who have been working on these issues
and documenting human rights violations."

A response that ignores basic rights is not effective, and only risks making the
situation worse

Davis Malombe, Kenya Human Rights Commission

Thinktanks have warned that the Kenyan government's targeting of Muslims could
drive radicalisation in the country.

"A response that ignores basic rights is not effective, and only risks making
the situation worse," said Davis Malombe, deputy director of the Kenya Human
Rights Commission.

Part of the problem is poor coordination between different government ministries
and inadequate police work, HRW said. "The lack of police investigation -
questioning of witnesses, taking of statements, collecting of evidence - is a
pattern that we've observed in a number of different places and at different
times," Lefkow said.

"No one here has recorded a statement with police because the police have not
asked for statements. We don't know how they are carrying out investigations if
they cannot talk to those who saw the attackers or the survivors," an employee
of the Kenya Red Cross told researchers.

Kenya's inspector general of police, the chief of general staff and the director
general of the Kenya Wildlife Service did not respond to requests for comment,
the rights groups said.

With more power being ceded to security services, including expanded rights to
use firearms and detain suspects, the government must improve its oversight of
police in order to fend off terrorists and protect civilians, the study said.

"Kenyan authorities have not conducted any known investigations into human
rights abuses by its counterterrorism forces, despite credible allegations of
abuse," it said.

While efforts by Kenya's Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) to hold
police to account were applauded by the report's authors, they called for
further action. "There is an urgent need for political will to undertake the
kind of reforms that will improve the security response and make Kenya safer,"
Lefkow said.

The report said the IPOA should "ensure all those implicated in human rights
abuses are removed from their positions and held to account".

Last week, the Kenyan government announced a £180m rise in funding for
counterterrorism operations in its latest budget (pdf).

Kenya's security services also receive funding from the US, the UK and other
international donors, who have not spoken out publicly against recent reports of
rights abuses. "I'm sure there is discussion privately on some of these
concerns, but the question is whether the oversight and pressure for reforms is
really at the level it needs to be," Lefkow said.

The country's tourism sector, one of the pillars of the economy, is paying the
price of deepening insecurity as governments warn their citizens to stay away
from popular coastal resorts like Lamu, Mombasa and Malindi.

Kenya said the threat of terrorist attacks could damage its development agenda,
which aims to transform the republic into a middle-income country by 2030.
"Without security for our citizens, achieving our growth and development
objectives will remain a mirage," Kenya's finance minister, Henry Rotich, said
on 11 June in an address to the country's parliament.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        June 15, 2015 Monday 9:57 AM GMT

Kenya police accused of brutality after deadly terror attacks

BYLINE: Jerome Starkey, Africa Correspondent

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 514 words


British-backed anti-terror units in Kenya "have not conducted any known
investigations into human rights abuses", despite myriad allegations that they
are linked to more than 20 murders, forced disappearances and police brutality,
rights groups are claiming.

Instead of protecting communities from terrorist attacks, police beat survivors
and stole property from ethnic Somalis and Muslims, according to an
investigation by the Kenyan Human Rights Commission and Human Rights Watch.

When suspected Al Shabaab militants made six attacks in Lamu county and
neighbouring Tana River last year, police were slow to react, woefully
understaffed and lacked command and control, the report warned.

When they did eventually respond, police rounded up innocent men and boys, beat
them and detained them illegally, often in squalid, inhumane conditions.

During the first attack, in Mpeketoni, which left at least 49 people dead "the
attackers were able to take control of Mpeketoni town for more than six hours
without any response from security officers, despite the presence of six
security stations in the area," the 53-page report Insult to Injury said.

"One year later, no one has been held responsible for the attacks. Hundreds of
people have been beaten and detained without charge while communities remain
vulnerable to further attacks."

Britain supports the Kenyan police, including the anti-terror police unit, with
money, vehicles and expert advice. The foreign office has insisted that it
lobbies "widely on the need for compliance with human rights principles", which
includes "transparent and robust investigation into alleged violations".

Yet investigators found none of the victims who were abused by police had dared
to report their ordeals after the 2014 attacks.

"Some said they were threatened by security officers or they were ordered out of
the office and threatened with arrest when they tried to voice concerns about
the abuse," the report said.

"Others said that they did not report the abuses because they do not believe
they can obtain justice for abuses at the hands of the government."

The attacks, close to the Somali border, have been blamed for crippling Kenya's
tourism industry, after Britain issued a travel advisory warning against all but
essential travel to large swathes of the country's coast.

"Kenyan authorities have over the past decade responded to the increase in
attacks in different parts of the country with heavy-handed operations,
especially against members of Muslim and ethnic Somali communities," the report
added.

Haki Africa, a Mombasa-based human rights group, accused the Kenyan security
agencies of killing "at least 21 Muslim clerics" over the past three years.

"Human Rights Watch research also found credible evidence that the
anti-terrorism police unit, working with other security agencies, has forcibly
disappeared or killed alleged terrorism suspects," the report said.

Yet "Kenyan authorities have not conducted any known investigations into human
rights abuses by its counter-terrorism forces, despite credible allegations of
abuse".

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 16, 2015 Tuesday

UK, US condemn 14 June terror attack in Kenya

LENGTH: 301 words


Text of report by Lonah Kibet entitled "US, Britain condemn Lamu attack, pledge
to back war on terror" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The
Standard website on 16 June

The United Kingdom and United States governments have condemned the Sunday [14
June] terror attack in Lamu [coastal Kenya] and pledged their continued support
in the fight against the militant group.

British High Commissioner to Kenya Christian Turner also commended the response
by the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) against the Al-Shabab.

"There can be no place for such barbaric acts of violence in our societies. The
UK continues to work closely with the Kenyan government both in the fight
against terrorism and in its efforts to bring the guilty to justice. Kenya's
security challenges represent a shared threat and require a shared response,"
said Dr Turner.

He added: "I would also like to praise the decisive response of the KDF, who
displayed exemplary levels of expertise and courage in countering the attack.

And noting the threat that terrorists pose, US Ambassador to Kenya Robert Godec
emphasized on the need for a united approach to end terrorism. "This attack
reinforces the need for all communities to unite to combat violent extremism,"
said Godec. Both governments also sent condolences to the families and friends
of the soldiers who lost their lives.

This comes after terrorists attacked a KDF camp at Baure, Lamu on Sunday
morning. So far, 15 terrorists have been gunned down, with the operation to find
the remaining attackers still ongoing. Two KDF soldiers were also shot dead in
the fighting.

Police appealed to locals to be on the lookout and report anyone seeking medical
attention or any suspicious characters who may seek to hide among them.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 16 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 16, 2015 Tuesday

Niger dismayed at 15 June terrorist attack in Chadian capital - report

LENGTH: 155 words


Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 16 June

Niger, which is one of the countries that are involved in the fight against the
Boko Haram Islamists and is a direct target for the terrorist group, has said it
is dismayed and outraged at the terrorist attack on the Chadian National Police
Academy on 15 June.

The office of the president denounced the act saying it is of an indescribable
cruelty.

For his part, French President Francois Hollande, who paid a short visit to
Algeria on 15 June, denounced the attack as barbarous, saying he did not have
any doubt that the Boko Haram Islamists were responsible it.

The French president added that the terrorist group should be held to account
for this new human horror.

President Hollande assured Chad of the support and solidarity of France in the
fight against terrorism.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 0830 gmt 16 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 16, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

British Islam convert is killed fighting for al- Shabaab during terror attack in
Kenya

BYLINE: Victoria Ward; Camilla Turner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 485 words


A BRITISH terror suspect whose mother pleaded for him to be jailed has died
fighting for al-Shabaab in Kenya.

Thomas Evans, 25, who converted to Islam six years ago, was among 15 militants
killed when the group attacked a military base in Lamu on Sunday, say Kenyan
sources.

Defence forces spokesman Colonel David Obonyo said: "All available data,
including photographs, points to it being Thomas Evans.

"There is an investigation going on with forensics and DNA to confirm his
identity."

Kenyan officials posted a photograph on Twitter of what is claimed to be Evans'
body.

His brother Michael said he had seen a picture and added: "There was no doubt it
was him. We remember him as my brother, but to everyone else he's just a
terrorist."

Evans, who changed his name to Abdul Hakin, was thought to have travelled four
years ago to join al-Shabaab.

His mother Sally Evans, 57, from Wooburn Green, Bucks, said he was a "normal
teenage lad" who was "interested in going to the pub on a Saturday night" before
turning to Islam.

After leaving school at 16, he worked as an electrician but he began to change
when he split with a long-term girlfriend and became depressed. His father,
Anthony Evans, 57, is a company director who lives in Lincoln. Giving evidence
to the Commons home affairs select committee in February, Mrs Evans said she was
initially pleased when her son turned to Islam as he had previously gone off the
rails, admitting: "He had done one or two things I wasn't proud of, so I was
quite happy for him to follow Islam if that was what he wanted."

But he became increasingly fundamental when he started attending a small prayer
centre and began to "drift down a path that was not right".

He refused to use the same pots and pans as his mother and Michael, telling
them: "I want you to convert to Islam otherwise you'll burn in hell."

At 21, he bought a one-way ticket to Kenya. "I couldn't stop him," said Mrs
Evans.

When he left the UK, she supplied police with as much information as possible,
being fuelled by the fear he wanted to become a suicide bomber.

She said she would rather have him alive behind bars than dead abroad because of
a "warped ideology".

In January 2012, he called and said he had linked up with the terror group. His
mother said: "He told us he was in Somalia and had joined al-Shabaab and not to
worry."

She asked if he was thinking of becoming a suicide bomber. He reportedly
replied: "If asked, I would."

The Foreign Office last night said: "We are aware of reports of the death of a
British national in Kenya. We are not able to confirm them."

Al-Shabaab, banned in the UK, is a Somalia-based group with links to al-Qaeda
that has waged a violent campaign for years against its governments.

It targets neighbours Kenya, claiming attacks are in retaliation for their
participation in an African Union peacekeeping force in Somalia.

Fifty Britons are believed to have joined al-Shabaab.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Thomas Evans was just a 'normal teenage lad interested in the pub'
until he found Islam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 16, 2015 Tuesday 3:49 PM GMT

Al-Qaeda chief behind Charlie Hebdo terror attacks killed by US drone

BYLINE: Peter Henn

LENGTH: 306 words


THE al-Qaeda mastermind behind the terror attacks on French satirical magazine
Charlie Hebdo has been killed by an American drone strike, it has emerged.

GETTY IMAGES

Nasser al-Quhayshi, who died in a drone strike

Nasser al-Wuhayshi, leader of Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula , died on Friday
after a strike in Yemen.

Al-Wuhayshi, who was believed to be in his late 30s, died when the car he was
travelling in was hit by a missile by an unmanned US craft.

A message read out on video by Khalid Batarfi, another member of the group,
said: "We in al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula mourn to our Muslim nation.

"Nasser al-Wuhayshi, God rest his soul, died in an American strike which
targeted him along with two of his Mujahedeen brothers, may God rest their
souls."

Al-Wuhayshi - who was a close associate of 9/11 mastermind Osama bin Laden and
was tipped to succeed the organisation's leader Ayman al-Zawahri - now follows
his commander Nasr al-Ansi, who was killed by a drone last month.

Brothers Said and Cherif Koachi, who carried out the Charlie Hebdo murders in
Paris in January, both said they were working for AQAP.

The Koachis killed eleven journalists and one policeman before being killed
themselves.

Washington rarely comments on drone attacks, but US government sources confirmed
that a drone had been 'operational' in the area where both al-Wuhayshi and
Al-Ansi died.

It was recently revealed British jihadi Samantha Lewthwaite - dubbed the 'White
Widow' - is recruiting female suicide bombers in Yemen on behalf of AQAP after
fleeing international police.

Related articles EXCLUSIVE: The White Widow is ALIVE and recruiting female
jihadi suicide bombers in Yemen Al-Qaeda commander who gloated over Charlie
Hebdo attacks 'killed in drone blast' 'I can't cope with the pain' Charlie Hebdo
Mohammed cartoonist quits over murdered friends

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 16, 2015 Tuesday 12:12 PM GMT

Charlie Hebdo massacre: Terror chief behind Paris attack killed by drone strike
in Yemen;
Nasser al-Wuhayshi was head of Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), which
inspired Paris gunmen to kill 17 people in the city in January

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 363 words


The terror chief behind the Charlie Hebdo murders has been killed in a drone
attack in Yemen, it was confirmed today.

Nasser al-Wuhayshi was head of Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), which
inspired Paris gunmen to kill 17 people in the city in January.

Among them were cartoonists and journalists from the satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo, which had infuriated Muslims by publishing mocking images of the Prophet
Mohammed.

A car al-Wuhayshi was travelling in was hit by a missile from an unmanned
aircraft in south east Yemen last Friday.

At least two Yemeni officials reported the attack in the the Hadramawt region,
as AQAP confirmed al-Wuhayshi's death.

A message read out on video by Khalid Batarfi, another member of the group,
says: "We in al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula mourn to our Muslim nation.

"Nasser al-Wuhayshi, God rest his soul, died in an American strike which
targeted him along with two of his Mujahedeen brothers, may God rest their
souls."

His successor in the organisation has been named as Qasim al-Raymi.

Nasser al-Wuhayshi was once a loyal deputy to Osama Bin Laden, the terrorist
mastermind behind the 9/11 attacks on the USA in 2001.

Al-Wuhayshi's death is a huge blow to AQAP, one of the most active al-Qaeda
franchises.

Last month the senior AQAP commander who admitted responsibility for the Hebdo
attacks was also blasted to death by a drone.

Nasr al-Ansi caused outage in January when he gloated over the murders by
France-born Islamists.

Two of them - brothers Said and Cherif Koachi - both said they were working for
AQAP.

The Kouachi brothers and a third terrorist, Amedy Coulibaly, were themselves
killed by police following sieges which also saw four Jewish people shot dead in
a Kosher supermarket in eastern Paris.

Al-Ansi, who was also close to the late terror chief Osama Bin Laden, had called
for more attacks in countries including Britain and American saying 'lone-wolf'
attacks were "better and more harmful".

Washington rarely comments on drone attacks, but US government sources confirmed
that a drone had been 'operational' in the area where both al-Wuhayshi and
Al-Ansi died.

WARNING: Graphic footage of Al Qaeda. Woman shot 'for adultery'

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 17, 2015 Wednesday

Syria sends letters to Security Council on recent "terrorist" attacks in Aleppo

LENGTH: 607 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Damascus, SANA -The Foreign and Expatriates Ministry on Tuesday [16 June] sent
two identical letters to the UN Secretary-General and the head of the Security
Council regarding the terrorist attacks that targeted Aleppo city on Monday,
claiming the lives of scores of innocent civilians.

The letters said that Aleppo and its peaceful people were targeted by another
heinous crime on Monday at the hands of terrorist organizations which are called
,moderate armed opposition" by their supporters, with these terrorists firing
more than one hundred rocket shells blindly and indiscriminately at the
neighbourhoods of al-Sirian, al-Sirian al-Jadideh, al-Aziziye, al-Rashdin,
Salaheddin, al-Ismailiye, Nile Street, the surroundings of Sheihan Hospital, and
al-Sabil housings in city.

The Ministry said that these attacks claimed the lives of 36 civilians, 12 of
them children, and injured more than 120 others, most of them women and
children, and the death toll is likely to increase due to the critical nature of
some of the injuries the victims sustained, adding that the attacks also caused
massive material damage to residential buildings and public and private
properties.

The letters said that this new massacre is the latest in a series of methodical
terrorist acts that have been targeting Syria for over four years, and that they
constitute a vindictive act of revenge against the people of Aleppo who stood
against terrorism and refused to abandon their homes.

The Ministry said that the terrorists of the so-called ,moderate armed
opposition" aren't the only sides responsible for this crime, as responsibility
falls on the regimes in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Jordan, Turkey, and Israel that
support, fund, harbour, train, and arm them, with these regimes turning a blind
eye to the Security Council resolutions on counterterrorism while other Security
Council members and the international community remain suspiciously silent to a
degree that borders on complicity with these terrorist groups and shows that
some continue to employ policies of double standards when it comes to
counterterrorism.

The Ministry said that the ongoing politicization of the crisis in Syria and the
double standards employed in this context are no longer acceptable now that
everyone has become aware of the barbarism and brutality of terrorist
organizations and their crimes against Syria and its people, civilization, and
culture, adding that the false allegations about the presence of ,moderate armed
opposition" that some are seeking desperately to promote are also unacceptable.

The Ministry went on to say that the international community must stand as one
to cooperate and coordinate with the Syrian government which has been fighting
terrorism for years on behalf of the people of the region and the world and in
defence of human existence, and the values of justice and freedom, adding that
all Security Council resolutions on counterterrorism, specifically resolutions
nos. 2170, 2178, and 2199, must be put into effect.

The letters concluded by saying that that the Syrian government is committed to
continue its battle against terrorism in Syria and to defending its people as
per its constitutional responsibilities, and that it calls on the Security
Council and the UN Secretary General to denounce the recent terrorist attacks in
Aleppo, refer to things by their proper and real designations, and take
fundamental deterrent steps against terrorist organizations and the states that
support and sponsor them.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 1635 gmt 16 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 17, 2015 Wednesday

Kenyan paper hails military for thwarting terror attack

LENGTH: 255 words


Text of editorial entitled "Actionable intelligence and anti-terror victory"
published by privately-owned Kenyan daily newspaper The Star on 17 June

The Kenya Defence Forces [KDF] deserve praise for thwarting the Al-Shabab attack
in Lamu [coastal Kenya] on Sunday [14 June]. The militants targeted a military
outpost, no doubt with eyes on the armoury and a double-whammy blow against KDF.

They struck on the first anniversary of the Mpeketoni massacre and barely two
months since new Chief of Defence Forces Samson Mwathethe took up his command. A
successful raid would have humiliated KDF and resulted in a large death toll in
the unarmed civilian population.

The attackers thought they had the element of surprise but it wasn't there,
thanks to diligent and focused work by military intelligence, who had them on
their radar for four months. One of the biggest lessons of the war on terror is
that it is not so much a shooting war as an actionable intelligence war.

The achievement on Sunday in Lamu is the fruit of proper intelligence followed
up to the point of attack. The result, as is often the case in the advanced
nations, was significant arrests and kills. Among the kills were two Kenyan
Al-Shabab commanders - Luqman Osman Issa and Said Abdalla Hemed, both of Mombasa
- and British Jihadist Thomas Evans, aka Abdul Hakim.

The government needs many more victories like this one - and far fewer
embarrassments such as those of the last two-and-a-half years in the war on
terror.

Source: The Star, Nairobi, in English 17 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      June 17, 2015 Wednesday 7:31 PM GMT

Suspected terrorist mastermind of anti-Semitic Paris attack arrested

BYLINE: Oli Smith

LENGTH: 403 words


A SUSPECTED terrorist has been arrested over thirty years after a brutal attack
in a popular Jewish neighbourhood in Paris.

GETTY

The attack at Jo Goldenberg left six dead and 22 injured

Zuhair Mohamad Hassan Khalid al-Abassi has reportedly been arrested for the 1982
attack on a Jewish restaurant that left six dead.

According to a source close to the case, the man also known as 'Amjad Atta' was
being held in Jordan.

He was identified as one of the three men mentioned in a French arrest warrant
issued earlier this year.

The brutal midday attack on August 9 1982 took place in the Marais district, a
largely Jewish neighbourhood in the centre of Paris.

Armed gunmen threw a grenade into the dining room of Jewish delicatessen Jo
Goldenberg shortly before shooting customers with machine guns, killing six
customers and wounding 22 others.

The terrorist attack was blamed on the Abu Nidal Organisation, a violent and
ruthless Palestinian militant group.

Amjad Atta is thought to be one of the three involved in the group's "special
operations committee".

GETTY

Armed gunmen threw a grenade into the diner which was serving 50 customers at
the time Related articles John Galliano to deliver fashion talk at synagogue
after anti-Semitic rant ruined career Thugs invade synagogue: Six arrested after
suspected anti-Semitic attack Anti-Semitic hate on the rise, warns star Dame
Kristin Scott Thomas

The other two main suspects in the attack have been named as Mahmoud Khader Abed
Adra, alias "Hicham Harb", who lives in Ramallah in the West Bank, and Walid
Abdulrahman Abu Zayed, alias "Souhail Othman", a resident of Norway.

Around 50 customers were believed to be inside the restaurant at the time of the
shooting that lasted only a few minutes.

The gunmen then fired at passer-bys as they escaped down the street.

One of the guns used in the savage shooting was later found in a park to the
west of Paris.

However, in over 30 years since the attack there has been little progress in the
police investigation.

At the time of the attack Paris was suffering from a spillover of Middle Eastern
tensions between Israel and Palestine.

In 1980, two years before the Goldenberg tragedy, a bomb exploded outside a
Paris synagogue, killing four and injuring around 20.

Earlier this year, another anti-Semitic attack struck Paris when a jihadist
gunman killed four during a Jewish supermarket hostage siege following the
Charlie Hebdo massacre.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                      June 17, 2015 Wednesday 5:01 PM GMT

New York student arrested for planning terror attack in the city;
FBI has been aggressive in its approach of catching terror suspects after the
Garland, Texas shooting

BYLINE: Aftab Ali

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 356 words


A college student - who was plotting to set off a pressure-cooker bomb in New
York City in support of the militant group Islamic State - has been arrested, US
authorities have said.

Munther Omar Saleh, 20 - who is a US citizen and studies electrical circuitry at
a college specialising in aeronautics - was arrested early on Saturday morning
after he, and another possible co-conspirator, are said to have gotten out of
their car and ran toward a surveillance vehicle that had been tracking their
movements.

The student was later charged with conspiring to provide material support to
Isis.

Federal authorities say Mr Saleh, from Queens, first came onto their radar after
he drew the attention of a Port Authority Police Department (PAPD) officer in
March for loitering, and looking suspicious, near the George Washington Bridge
on several separate occasions.

According to New York Magazine, Mr Saleh later told a confidential informant he
was "making efforts to prepare an explosive device for detonation" and that
instructions for how to make a pressure-cooker bomb - along with pictures of New
York landmarks - were discovered on his computer.

The complaint against Mr Saleh - which was prepared by an FBI agent and filed in
Federal District Court in Brooklyn - describes how, in September last year, Mr
Saleh posted a message on Twitter that said Al Qaeda was "getting too moderate."

In February, it says he posted another message praising the Islamic State for
"their high-end videos, great weaponry and quality fighters."

The complaint goes on to describe how, over the past month, Mr Saleh extensively
searched for pots, beads, propane, vacuum cleaners, lamps and watches online.

The FBI has been aggressively tracking-down possible terror suspects in the US
after a foiled terror attack by two Isis-inspired gunmen in Garland, Texas.

The Saleh case remains under investigation and a law enforcement official says
more arrests are expected.

READ MORE:West Yorkshire teen is 'Britain's youngest suicide bomber''Schools
must teach children British values to stop lure of Isis'Garland shooting: FBI
warned police of suspicions hours before attack

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 17, 2015 Wednesday 6:20 PM GMT

College student is accused of plotting a 'lone wolf' ISIS-inspired terror attack
after he was seen scrutinizing the George Washington Bridge

BYLINE: REUTERS

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 551 words



     ·    Munther Omar Saleh, 20, was arrested after he and another man ran
          toward a surveillance vehicle that had been tracking them
     ·    Saleh, who attends Queens College in New York, is said to have spent
          hours online researching how to build a pressure-cooker bomb
     ·    In numerous online postings, he expressed support for Islamic State
          and praised the Charlie Hebdo attacks in Paris
     ·    A police officer observed Saleh on successive days in March on foot at
          the George Washington Bridge, 'looking around'


A New York City college student has been accused of plotting to set off a
pressure-cooker bomb in the city in support of Islamic State, according to court
documents.

Munther Omar Saleh, 20, was arrested early on Saturday morning after he and
another man got out of their car and ran toward a surveillance vehicle that had
been tracking their movements, according to documents filed in Brooklyn federal
court Tuesday.

A defense lawyer for Saleh, a student at Queens College, could not be identified
on Tuesday. The other man, who was also arrested, was not named in the court
documents and could not immediately be identified.

Scroll down for video

U.S. authorities have charged a number of so-called 'lone wolf' plotters in
recent months who have apparently been inspired by ISIS.

The officials have said they are pursuing similar cases in all 50 states.

A federal agent said in court papers that Saleh, a resident of Flushing in the
New York City borough of Queens, spent hours online researching how to build a
pressure-cooker bomb and reading accounts of the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing.

Investigators reportedly said Saleh recently enrolled at Queens college, which
specializes in aeronautics. He was studying electrical circuitry.

In numerous online postings, Saleh expressed support for the Islamic State and
at one point posted on Twitter - in an apparent reference to the militant group
Al Qaeda - 'I fear AQ could be getting too moderate,' according to court papers.

He also praised various militant attacks, including the January massacre at the
headquarters of the magazine Charlie Hebdo in France and murders carried out by
Islamic State, authorities said.

The FBI claim that Saleh told an informant: 'I'm in NY and trying to do an op' -
a militant reference that refers to carrying out a terror attack.

A police officer observed Saleh on successive days in March on foot at the
George Washington Bridge - which connects New Jersey and New York - seemingly
looking around, the court papers said.

The behavior prompted officers to interview Saleh, who denied sympathizing with
Islamic State and also granted them permission to examine his computer,
authorities said.

Investigators found the computer contained Islamic State propaganda, according
to court filings.

Saleh's father defended his son to CBS2, saying that it was a misunderstanding
and he had been set up by informants. The father said Saleh had been conducting
simple internet searches.

The FBI searched the family home and an SUV on Saturday.

The complaint filed against Saleh mentions a third unnamed co-conspirator but
does not say an arrest has been made.

A spokeswoman for the Brooklyn U.S. Attorney's office, which is prosecuting the
case, declined to comment.

Saleh has not been formally charged, according to reports. He has been in
custody since Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                             June 18, 2015 Thursday

Nine killed in Charleston Church terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 482 words


A white man opened fire during a prayer meeting inside a historic black church
in the US, killing nine people in an assault that authorities described as a
hate crime.

The gunman was still at large.

The shooting took place at the Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina.
Police chief Greg Mullen said there were survivors, but would not say how many,
or how many were inside at the time of the shooting.

He also refused to confirm whether the pastor, state senator Clementa Pinckney,
was one of the victims.

Mr Mullen described the suspect as a white man in his early 20s. He said he
believed it was a hate crime, but would not elaborate.

"The only reason that someone could walk into a church and shoot people praying
is out of hate," said Charleston mayor Joseph Riley. "It is the most dastardly
act that one could possibly imagine, and we will bring that person to justice.
This is one hateful person."

As police and the city's mayor updated the media, a group of pastors huddled
together praying in a circle across the street.

Police moved journalists back away from the site due to what they called an
"imminent" threat. They did not release any details.

The campaign of Republican US presidential hopeful Jeb Bush sent out an email
saying that due to the shooting, he had cancelled an event planned in the city
today.

Emmanuel is a historic African-American church that traces its roots to 1816,
when several churches split from Charleston's Methodist Episcopal church.

One of its founders, Denmark Vesey, tried to organise a slave revolt in 1822. He
was caught, and white landowners had his church burned in revenge. Parishioners
worshipped underground until after the Civil War.

The attack came two months after the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man,
Walter Scott, by a white police officer in neighbouring North Charleston that
sparked major protests and highlighted racial tensions in the area.

The officer has been charged with murder, and the case prompted South Carolina
lawmakers to push through a bill helping all police agencies in the state get
body cameras.

In a statement, Governor Nikki Haley asked South Carolinians to pray for the
victims and their families and decried violence on religious places.

"While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we'll never
understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take
the life of another," Ms Haley said.

Soon after the shooting, a group of pastors huddled together praying in a circle
across the street.

Community organiser Christopher Cason said he felt certain the shootings were
racially motivated.

"I am very tired of people telling me that I don't have the right to be angry,"
Mr Cason said. "I am very angry right now."

Even before Mr Scott's shooting in April, Mr Cason said he had been part of a
group meeting with police and local leaders to try to shore up better
relationships.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      June 18, 2015 Thursday 12:04 AM GMT

Another country BANS Islamic veil after terror attacks shake capital

BYLINE: Jake Burman

LENGTH: 315 words


MUSLIMS have been from wearing full-face veils in Chad after two suicide
bombings rocked the African country.

GETTY FILE PICTURE

Chad has banned full-faced veils after a deadly terror attack

Prime Minister Kalzuebe Pahimi Deubet said security forces will burn all
full-face veils sold in markets for being used as a "camouflage" by militants.

He added that the ban will be applied everywhere in the African country, not
just in public places.

Pahimi Deubet personally blamed the Islamist group Boko Haram for the two
suicide bombs attacks, which took place on Monday.

They killed at least 23 people and injured more than 100 in the Chadian capital
N'Djamena, according to officials.

Attackers on motorbikes blew themselves up outside two police buildings.

Boko Haram has previously threatened to attack Chad, after its forces started to
help neighbouring country Nigeria.

Communications Minister Hassan Sylla Bakari said that the militant group is
"making a mistake by targeting Chad."

He said: "These lawless terrorists will be chased out and neutralised wherever
they are."

The Islamist group are increasingly using female suicide bombers in Nigeria -
because they are more likely to smuggle bombs into public places without being
detected.

More than 55 per cent of Chad's population is Muslim, according to a 2010
census.

Last month the Netherlands banned the veil in government buildings, schools,
hospitals and on public transport.

The ban does not completely forbid the veil in public places, but outlaws it "in
specific situations where it is essential for people to be seen" or for security
reasons.

Those breaching the ban can now be fined up to £285.

Related articles Mayor wants to BAN Islam 'to solve the country's problems' Now
the Netherlands bans Islamic veil - but will Britain ever do the same? UK
waterpark bans bikinis and orders visitors to wear 'Islamically appropriate'
clothes

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                              June 19, 2015 Friday

33,000 killed in almost 13,500 terrorist attacks around the world

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 474 words


Extremists in Iraq, Afghanistan and Nigeria unleashed a savage rise in violence
between 2013 and 2014, according to new statistics released by the US State
Department.

Attacks largely at the hands of the Islamic State (IS) and Boko Haram raised the
number of terror acts by more than a third (35%), nearly doubled the number of
deaths and nearly tripled the number of kidnappings.

The figures contained in the department's annual global terrorism report say
that nearly 33,000 people were killed in almost 13,500 terrorist attacks around
the world in 2014.

That was up from just over 18,000 deaths in nearly 10,000 attacks in 2013, it
said.

Twenty-four Americans were killed by extremists in 2014 and abductions soared
from 3,137 in 2013 to 9,428 in 2014, the report said.

It attributed the rise in attacks to increased terror activity in Iraq,
Afghanistan and Nigeria and the sharp spike in deaths to a growth in
exceptionally lethal attacks in those countries and elsewhere.

There were 20 attacks that killed more than 100 people each in 2014, compared to
just two in 2013, according to the figures.

Among the 20 mass casualty attacks in 2014 were the December attack by the
Pakistani Taliban on a school in Peshawar, Pakistan that killed at least 150
people and the June attack by IS militants on a prison in Mosul, Iraq, in which
670 Shiite prisoners died.

At the end of 2014, the prison attack was the deadliest terrorist operation in
the world since September 11, 2001, according to the report.

Terror attacks took place in 95 countries in 2014, but were concentrated in the
Middle East, South Asia and west Africa.

Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan, India and Nigeria accounted for more than 60% of
the attacks and, if Syria is included, roughly 80% of the fatalities, the report
found.

The rise in kidnappings is mainly attributable to sharp increases in mass
abductions by terrorist groups in Syria, notably the Islamic State and the al
Qaida-linked al-Nusra Front. In Nigeria, Boko Haram was responsible for most, if
not all, of the nearly 1,300 abductions in 2014, including several hundred girls
from a school in Chibok.

By contrast, fewer than 100 terror-related kidnappings were reported in Nigeria
in 2013, according to the report.

Today's report noted the "unprecedented seizure" of territory in Iraq and Syria
by IS in 2014 along with its continued demonstrated ability to recruit foreign
fighters to join its cause and the emergence of self-proclaimed affiliates
notably in Libya, Egypt and Nigeria.

It also pointed out a rise in the number of so-called "lone wolf" attacks in the
West and the use of more extreme methods of violence by terrorists to repress
and frighten communities under their control.

At the same time, the report said regional and international efforts to counter
the Islamic State and other groups were starting to make inroads.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 19, 2015 Friday

Netanyahu reportedly says 19 June shooting at West Bank settlement terror attack

LENGTH: 258 words


An unattributed report at 1617 gmt says: "Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
affirmed Friday evening that, based on evidence, Fridays shooting in the West
Bank was a terror attack. 'We are working to locate the man responsible,' he
said.

"Netanyahu warned that Israel cannot be disillusioned by the relative peace and
quiet attained through the thwarting of many terror plots. 'Attempts to hurt us
are constant, and we will continue to fight them,' he said."

Rivlin: Shooting Attack Part of 'Serious Escalation'

An unattributed report at 1651 GMT says: "President Reuven Rivlin issued a
statement Friday evening, following the shooting terrorist attack that killed
25-year-old Israeli Danny Gonen and lightly injured another, both from Lod. 'The
murderous attack that occurred today is another step in the quiet and serious
escalation in acts of terrorism we have witnessed in recent months,' Rivlin
said.

"He assured that security forces would continue to scan the area until those
responsible for the act are brought to justice. 'There should be heard clear and
decisive condemnation of such criminal acts from both the Arab leadership, which
bears responsibility for actions of terrorism emanating from its territory, as
well as from the leaders of the Arab community in Israel,' he said. Rivlin
extended his condolences to families of the victims, and deemed as unacceptable
a situation in which 'a young hiker has his life taken from him in the land of
Israel, because he is Jewish.'"

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 19 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                              June 19, 2015 Friday

Terrorist Attacks Kill Four Soldiers, Says Interior Ministry

LENGTH: 92  words



HIGHLIGHT: Four Tunisian soldiers were killed in separate militant attacks on
June 15, according to the interior ministry.


News: Four Tunisian soldiers were killed in separate militant attacks on June
15, according to the interior ministry. A group of militants attacked a National
Guard patrol near Tunisia's northwestern border with Algeria, killing one
soldier and injuring four others. Meanwhile, three other soldiers were killed in
the Tunisian city of Sidi Bouzid, in two separate incidents. One of the three
soldiers was killed while travelling to work, while the two others were killed
after a security checkpoint was assaulted by an armed group (Big News
Network/UPI).

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                              June 19, 2015 Friday

Authorities Arrest Student For Allegedly Planning Terrorist Attack

LENGTH: 72  words



HIGHLIGHT: A 20-year-old college student from Queens, New York City, was
arrested by US authorities on June 13 on suspicion of planning a terrorist
attack.


News: A 20-year-old college student from Queens, New York City, was arrested by
US authorities on June 13 on suspicion of planning a terrorist attack. Munther
Omar Saleh was taken into custody along with one other person after he
confronted law enforcers who were tailing him, reported NBC News. Saleh, accused
by authorities of procuring information from the internet to build a bomb, had
been under FBI surveillance for three months.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Industry Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2015 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        June 19, 2015 Friday 7:13 AM GMT

Daily Show's Jon Stewart on Charleston shooting: 'This was a terrorist attack';

'I'm confident that by acknowledging it, we still won't do jackshit,' US TV host
tells viewers, after murder of nine people in a South Carolina church

BYLINE: Claire Phipps

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 404 words


The Daily Show host Jon Stewart has slammed America's response to the mass
shooting in a South Carolina church, predicting that nothing would be done in
the wake of a "terrorist attack" that left nine people dead.

In a sombre opening to a show he promised would contain no jokes, Stewart said
some people were already working hard to discount the idea that racism was the
motive behind the massacre.

Dylann Roof, a 21-year-old white man, is currently in custody in Charleston.

Prior to introducing his guest - Nobel peace prize-winner Malala Yousafzai -
Stewart told viewers: "I have nothing other than just sadness that once again we
have to peer into the abyss of the depraved violence that we do to each other,
and the nexus of a just gaping racial wound that will not heal but we pretend
doesn't exist.

"I'm confident, though, that by acknowledging it, by staring into that and
seeing it for what it is, we still won't do jackshit.

"Yeah. That's us."

The reluctance to label domestic shootings of this kind as terrorism, he went
on, led to what he called a "disparity of response between when we think people
that are foreign are going to kill us and us killing ourselves".

"If this had been what we thought was Islamic terrorism ... we invaded two
countries and spent trillions of dollars and thousands of American lives, and
now fly unmanned death machines over, like, five or six different countries ...

"Nine people. Shot in a church. What about that? Eh. What are you gonna do?
Crazy is as crazy is, right?"

The media response had been too slow to acknowledge the culture that made such
violence possible, Stewart said: "I heard someone on the news say, a tragedy has
visited this church. This wasn't a tornado. This was racist. This was a guy with
a Rhodesia badge on his sweater ... This one is black and white. There's no
nuance here.

"And we're going to keep pretending: I don't get it, what happened, there's one
guy lost his mind. We are steeped in that culture in this country and we refuse
to recognise it, and I cannot believe how hard people are working to discount
it."

Stewart pointed to what he called the "racial wallpaper" of South Carolina,
where a confederate flag continues to be flown within the grounds of the capitol
building: "The confederate flag flies over South Carolina. And the roads are
named for confederate generals.

"And the white guy's the one who feels like his country's being taken away from
him."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        June 19, 2015 Friday 8:07 PM GMT

Hate crimes against British Muslims spike after major terrorist attacks;
Study finds there were 548 incidents in 2014-15, down from 734 in 2013-14 when
there were a large number following the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby

BYLINE: Ian Johnston

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 346 words


Hate crimes against British Muslims rise after terrorist attacks around the
world blamed on Islamist extremists, according to a new study.

Academics at Teesside University found that children as young as 10 took part in
hate crimes, The Guardian reported.

They found there were 548 incidents in 2014-15, down from 734 in 2013-14 when
there were a large number following the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby.

Last year's figures showed marked increases after the terrorist attacks in
Paris, Copenhagen and, to a lesser degree, Sydney.

One author of the study, Dr Mark Littler, said: "Findings... suggest that where
the media stress the Muslim background of attackers, and devote significant
coverage to it, the violent response is likely to be greater than in cases where
the motivation of the attackers are downplayed or rejected in favour of
alternative explanations.

"The latter appears to be the case with the Sydney perpetrator, who was swiftly
and repeatedly identified as mentally ill."

The attacks were mostly online threats but also included 21 assaults and 15
cases of damage to property.

Professor Matthew Feldman said the study showed that the terrorist attacks were
fuelling a cycle of violence.

"The analysis offers broad support for the theory of cumulative extremism, with
the ratcheting up of violent activity between opposing groups, with an act of
violence triggering a response that itself sparks further attacks," he said.

Lord Ahmad, the government Minister who leads on counter-extremism, said: "The
government is determined to defeat extremism in all its forms by continuing to
work in partnership with communities to challenge the spread of hatred and
intolerance.

"We deplore religious and racially motivated attacks and are committed to
tackling hate crime. As part of this work we have committed to reviewing the
legislation governing hate crime and will introduce a comprehensive package of
measures to address those who stir up hatred against others.

"The police have recorded hate crime since 2011, and we are exploring how this
data can be broken down further."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                        June 19, 2015 Friday 9:52 AM GMT

Charleston shooting: Roommate claims Dylann Roof wanted 'civil war' and planned
terrorist attack for six months;
"He said blacks were taking over the world. Someone needed to do something about
it for the white race."

BYLINE: Justin Carissimo

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 364 words


Charleston shooting suspect Dylann Roof's roommate says the 21-year-old planned
the terrorist attack leading up to the massacre which claimed nine lives on at
the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church on Wednesday night.

Dalton Tyler told ABC News that Mr Roof was planning the act of terror for the
entire seventh months they'd known each other.

"He was big into segregation and other stuff," he said. "He said he wanted to
start a civil war. He said he was going to do something like that and then kill
himself."

Mr Tyler also said that Mr Roof's parents bought him a gun but never allowed him
to take it until this past week.

Joseph Meek Jr., the terror suspect's childhood friend, told the Associated
Press that Mr Roof recently reconnected with him on Facebook and
uncharacteristically ranted about the controversial deaths of Trayvon Martin and
Freddie Gray in police custody which both made national headlines.

"He said blacks were taking over the world. Someone needed to do something about
it for the white race," Mr Meek said. "He said he wanted segregation between
whites and blacks. I said, 'That's not the way it should be.' But he kept
talking about it."

Carson Cowles, the suspect's uncle, told Reuters that he warned his sister that
he thought Mr Roof was too introverted and a "quiet, soft-spoken boy."  In
pictures: Charleston church shooting

"I said he was like 19 years old, he still didn't have a job, a driver's license
or anything like that and he just stayed in his room a lot of the time," he
said.

Richard Cohen, the president of the Southern Poverty Law Center, issued a
statement saying he was unsure if Mr Roof was connected to any of the 16 white
supremacy groups currently operating in South Carolina, in which the number of
hate groups have increased in the US since 2000.

"The increase has been driven by a backlash to the country's increasing racial
diversity, an increase symbolized for many by the presence of an African
American in the White House," he said.

"Since 9/11, our country has been fixated on the threat of Jihadi terrorism. But
the horrific tragedy at the Emmanuel AME reminds us that the threat of homegrown
domestic terrorism is very real."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                       June 19, 2015 Friday 10:09 PM GMT

Deaths Caused By Terrorist Attacks Rise By 81%

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 197 words



HIGHLIGHT: More than 32,700 were killed by terrorists in 2014 - an 81% increase
on the year before, according to a report from the US State Department.


  Terror attacks are also taking place more frequently, with a 35% jump in the
number of incidents over the same period.

The report says more than 9,400 people were kidnapped by militants in 2014 -
triple the number taken hostage in 2013.

Although al Qaeda, the architects of the 9/11 attacks, have lost momentum in
recent months, the rise of Islamic State has led to unprecedented numbers of
foreign fighters travelling to Syria and Iraq.

Often attracted by the terror group's propaganda on social media, an estimated
22,000 people have joined the jihadist militant organisation.

The State Department said this figure far exceeds the number of people who have
flown to Pakistan, Iraq, Yemen, Somalia or Afghanistan "at any point in the last
20 years".

In June 2014, an IS attack on a prison in Mosul killed 670 Shi'ite Muslims, in
the "deadliest attack worldwide since September 11, 2001".

According to Barack Obama, stemming the flow of fighters who travel to the
Middle East is crucial.

"We're taking a lot of them off the battlefield, but if they're being
replenished, then it doesn't solve the problem over the long-term," he said
earlier this month.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 19, 2015 Friday 7:41 PM GMT

Deaths from terror attacks 'increased 81 per cent in 2014';
Ten times as many attacks killed at least 100 people, largely due to rise of
Isil and Boko Haram, according to US State Department

BYLINE: By David Lawler Washington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 390 words


The rise of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) the Nigerian terror
group Boko Haram were responsible for an 81 per cent increase in global
terrorism last year, according to a report by the US state department.

The sharp increase in the number of people killed by terror attacks worldwide
last year included a tenfold increase in mass casualty attacks, according to the
annual report on global terrorism which found terror attacks claimed 33,000
lives in 2014, compared to 18,000 in 2013.

· Jon Stewart: let's call Charleston massacre what it was - an act of terrorism

Twenty separate attacks killed at least 100 people last year, compared with just
two such events in 2013.

The spike was due in large part to the rise of Isil and Boko Haram. The state
department said those groups were acting with almost unprecedented "savagery".

The most deadly terrorist attack last year was Isil's assault on a prison in
Mosul, Iraq, in which 670 Shia prisoners were killed.

The countries in which terror most intensified last year included Iraq, Syria,
Yemen, Libya and Nigeria . Lone wolf attacks in the West were also listed as a
major concern.

In additional to fatal attacks, three times as many people were kidnapped by
terrorist groups in 2014 than in 2013.

The Obama administration pushed back against the narrative that the increase in
attacks reflects an inability of America and its allies to combat terrorism,
insisting "the numbers don't tell the whole story".

Tina Kaidanow, counterterrorism coordinator, cited successes in the fight
against al-Qaeda, and a "momentum" in global efforts to make it more difficult
for terrorists to travel internationally.

The administration was drawing fire on Friday, however, over the finding that
Iran's sponsorship of terrorist groups continued unimpeded despite the trust
being shown in Iran by the West during the negotiations over its nuclear
programme .

"They're still doing it [sponsoring terror], and we're still concerned," Ms
Kaidanow said.

The report also commended Britain for its efforts to fight terrorism, though it
noted the persistent threat posed by foreign fighters travelling to the Middle
East from the UK .

· The Brits fighting on either side in Syria - in 90 seconds

The total number of terrorist attacks carried out was 13,500 last year compared
with fewer than 10,000 in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 19, 2015 Friday 12:28 PM GMT

Jon Stewart: let's call Charleston massacre what it was - an act of terrorism;
American talk show host Jon Stewart drops jokes to deliver searing critique of
America's muted response to the Charleston shooting, and called for it to be
termed a terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Harriet Alexander

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1312 words


Jon Stewart, the host of The Daily Show, used his nightly television appearance
to deliver a scathing assessment of American society, following the murder of
nine people in Charleston.

In an introduction to his chat show which lasted over five minutes, an unusually
stony-faced Stewart provided a sombre reflection on the bloodshed at Emanuel
African Methodist Episcopal Church, in which a white man, Dylann Roof, opened
fire on a Bible study session.

"I didn't do my job today," he said. "I apologise. I've got nothing for you in
terms of jokes and sounds, because of what happened in South Carolina."

He said that he despaired because the shooting was "such a common occurrence,"
and criticised America for failing to address the root causes.

"I honestly have nothing other than sadness that once again we have to peer into
the abyss of the depraved violence that we do to each other, and the nexus of a
just gaping racial wound that will not heal, yet we pretend doesn't exist," he
said.

"I'm confident though that by acknowledging it - by staring into that - and
seeing it for what it is, we still won't do jack ----.

"That's us. And that's the part that blows my mind. I don't want to get into the
political argument about guns and stuff.

"What blows my mind is the disparity of response. When we think people that are
foreign are going to kill us, and us killing ourselves. If we thought this was
Islamic terrorism it would fit into it.

"We invade two countries and spent trillions of dollars and lost thousands of
American lives and now fly unmanned death machines over like five or six
different counties, all to keep Americans safe. We've got to do whatever we can
- we'll torture people. We've got to do whatever we can to keep Americans safe.

"But nine people shot in a church - 'Hey, what are you going go to do? Crazy is
as crazy is, right?' That's the part that I cannot, for the life of me, wrap my
head around. And you know it's going to go down the same path."

And he lambasted what he portrayed as the usual meek response to mass shootings
.

"They are already using the nuanced language of lack of effort," he said. "This
is a terrorist attack. This is a violent attack on a church, that is a symbol
for that community.

"This wasn't a tornado. This was racist. This one - I hate to use a pun - but
this is black and white. There is no nuance here. I cannot believe how hard
people are working to discount it."


     ·    On race, on guns, Obama confronts the limits of his power


He also said that the history of South Carolina was key to understanding the
attack.

"In South Carolina, roads are named after the people who fought to keep black
people off the roads.

"The confederate flag flies over South Carolina. And the roads are named for
confederate generals. And the white guy is the one who feels like his country is
being taken away from him.

"We're bringing it on ourselves. And that's the thing - al Qaeda, ISIS, they're
not - compared to the damage we can apparently do to ourselves on a regular
basis."

.global__group{zoom:1}.global__group:after,.global__group:before{content:'';disp
lay:table}.global__group:after{clear:both}.float--left{display:-moz-inline-stack
;display:inline-block;vertical-align:top;zoom:1}.timeline__container.is__mobile{
padding-left:4.687%;padding-right:4.687%}.timeline__title{margin-bottom:20px}.ti
meline__title__headline{font-family:Georgia,serif;font-size:24px;line-height:28p
x;color:#CC0000;margin-bottom:15px}.timeline__title__subtitle{-webkit-font-smoot
hing:antialiased;font-family:'Telesans Text
Web';font-size:15px;line-height:21px;color:#565656}.timeline__main{-webkit-font-
smoothing:antialiased;font-family:'Telesans Text
Web';position:relative;color:#565656;font-size:15px;line-height:21px}.timeline__
element{background-color:#F4F4F0;padding:15px 20px 20px
35px}.timeline__element+.timeline__element{margin-top:3px}.timeline__element__le
ftCont{margin-right:10px;width:13px;height:15px}.timeline__element__bar{height:1
00%;width:1px;background-color:#777}.timeline__element__title{position:relative;
margin-bottom:10px}.timeline__element__title:after{width:13px;height:13px;backgr
ound-image:url(http://s.telegraph.co.uk/graphics/TimelineGenerator/img/diamond.p
ng);content:'';left:-25px;position:absolute;top:2px}.timeline__element__subtitle
{font-size:18px;font-weight:700;line-height:21px;margin-bottom:10px}.timeline__e
lement__date{font-weight:700}.timeline__element__time{color:#CC0000}.timeline__e
lement__media__image{width:100%;max-width:620px}.timeline__element__media__image
image{display:block}.video--container{position:relative;width:100%;max-width:620
px;margin-bottom:5px}.video--player{padding-bottom:56.27%}.video--player
.innerWrapper{width:auto!important;height:auto!important;position:absolute!impor
tant;top:0;right:0;left:0;bottom:0}.timeline__element__media__caption{font-size:
13px;color:#777;margin-bottom:20px}.timeline__element__text+.timeline__element__
title{margin-top:25px}.timeline__bar{position:absolute;top:0;left:16px;height:10
0%;width:1px}.timeline__bar__fill{position:absolute;height:auto;bottom:0;top:0;l
eft:0;right:0;margin-top:20px;margin-right:0;margin-left:0;background-color:#777
;width:100%}.video--container__ooyala--padding{width:100%;padding-bottom:56.25%;
position:relative}.video--container__ooyala{position:absolute;top:0;bottom:0;lef
t:0;right:0}Charleston shooting: how the horror unfolded Wednesday, June 179pm
(local time) A man kneels across the street from where police gather outside the
Emanuel AME Church (AP)A man enters the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal
Church where a bible group was meeting. He sits down before opening fire killing
9 people. He flees the scene. Thursday, June 186.45am (BST)Police release a
description of the suspect7.09am (BST)Local police chief Gregory Mullen stages a
press conference declaring that 8 people died at the scene whilst a 9th died
after being taken to hospital7.10am (BST) Reverend Clementa Pinckney is among
the dead (Facebook)Reverend Al Sharpton tweets that the church's pastor, and
member of the state Senate, Reverend Clementa Pinckney is among the dead7.11am
(BST)Jed Bush cancels a rally scheduled to take place in Charleston. 7.42am
(BST)Charleston's Mayor issues the following statement: "The only reason that
someone could walk into a church and shoot people praying is out of hate. It is
the most dastardly act that one could possibly imagine, and we will bring that
person to justice. This is one hateful person. This is the most unspeakable and
heart-breaking tragedy. People [were] in prayer on a Wednesday evening. A ritual
coming together, praying and worshipping God. To have an awful person come in
and shoot them is, is inexplicable."8.12am (BST)Nikki Haley, governor of South
Carolina, says in a statement: "Michael, Rena, Nalin and I are praying for the
victims and families touched by tonight's senseless tragedy at Emanuel AME
Church. While we do not yet know all of the details, we do know that we'll never
understand what motivates anyone to enter one of our places of worship and take
the life of another. Please join us in lifting up the victims and their families
with our love and prayers."09.07am (BST)A bomb threat is reported near the sight
of the church - reporters are told to leave and the area is evacuated.11.05am
(BST) A 'Need to Identify' poster issued by the Charleston Police DepartmentA
photo of the suspect is released by the local police department. 11.21am
(BST)Charleston police chief Greg Mullen holds a press conference urging the
public not to approach the suspect. 12.10pm (BST)Chief Mullen confirms the news:
"I am very pleased to say... we have arrested Dylan RoofHe was arrested in
Shelby, NC at a traffic stop. We have detectives preparing to fly to Shelby to
interview and prepare for evidence recovery."5.35pm (BST)President Obama speaks
of his anger and pain over the shootings.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 20, 2015 Saturday

Chad announces further security measures to stem new terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 212 words


Chad on 19 June announced further measures to strengthen security in the country
following the 15 June suicide attacks on the national police academy and the
central police station in the capital, N'Djamena, reports French state-funded
public broadcaster Radio France Internationale on 19 June.

In addition to the ban on wearing the burka and the turban as well as using
vehicles with tinted glasses, Prime Minister Kalzeubet Pahimi Deubet announced a
new series of security measures. These include "ban on issuance of fresh
identity cards and passports as well as washing along the banks of Chari River"
along the border between Chad and Cameroon.

Another measure the government has introduced throughout the country is "ban on
wearing of the long veil that covers the face of the user especially in public
places". Powers of security agents have been enhanced to include "targeted and
unannounced searches at checkpoints and public places".

According to Prime Minister Kalzeubet Pahimi Deubet, these measures have been
taken because "terrorism calls for strict measures aimed at averting fresh
suicide attacks. He, however, acknowledged that the measures would be a
constraint on the daily lives Chadians.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 1230 gmt 19 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       June 20, 2015 Saturday 5:23 PM GMT

Charleston church shooting: suspect Dylann Roof in custody as community holds
vigils;
Arrested Dylann Roof 'wanted to ignite civil war'The victims: a poet, a
politician, a librarian, women of faithDaily Show's Jon Stewart: 'This was a
terrorist attack'Share your accounts with GuardianWitnessRead the latest summary

BYLINE: Raya Jalabi and Jessica Glenza in New York, and Claire Phipps in Sydney

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 12164 words


block-time published-time 3.09am ET


Closing summary

I'm winding down this live blog now, but you can find all our ongoing coverage
of the Charleston shooting here.

Here is a round-up of the latest developments in this unfolding story:


     ·    Suspect Dylann Roof is in custody in Charleston county jail. It is
          believed he will appear in court at 2pm on Friday. So far, there has
          been no confirmation that he has yet been charged.
     ·    Interviews with friends and associates of the 21-year-old accused
          revealed their concerns that he had been "planning something like that
          for six months", and his desire to ignite "a civil war".
     ·    The nine people - six women and three men - killed in the historic
          black church of Emanuel AME church have been identified. They were Rev
          Clementa Pinckney, Tywanza Sanders, Sharonda Coleman-Singleton,
          Cynthia Hurd, DePayne Middleton-Doctor, Rev Dr Daniel L Simmons Jr,
          Ethel Lance, Myra Thompson and Susie Jackson. You can read more about
          all of them here.
     ·    A Snapchat video apparently recorded at the church bible study group
          by Sanders shows the gunman sitting calmly alongside those he would go
          on to attack.
     ·    Vigils have been heldin Charleston, and across South Carolina and the
          US. Chris Singleton, the son of Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, gave a
          powerful speech in which he talked about how he would carry on after
          his mother's death:



I'm probably going to push myself harder in everything I do. Every time I do
something good I'll probably give her a little wink or something, in the sky.

Love is always stronger than hate. We just love the way my mom did and the hate
won't be anywhere close to what the love is.

Mourners hold a prayer vigil at the First African Methodist Episcopal Church:
Bethel, Harlem, New York City. Photograph: Eric Thayer/Getty Images

     ·    Three people survived the attack, police said. Their condition has not
          yet been disclosed.
     ·    Roof had earlier been captured without incident in North Carolina,
          after a local florist who was late for work alerted police to
          "suspicious activity". He waived extradition to be returned to
          Charleston.
     ·    Barack Obamasaid he felt both sadness and anger at the shootings and
          said America must come to grips with its record on gun violence.
     ·    The shooting is being investigated as a hate crime. " There is
          absolutely no doubt in my mind that it is hate crime," police chief
          Greg Mullen said. The Department of Justice has launched a federal
          civil rights investigation into the shooting.
     ·    Daily Show TV host Jon Stewart has won praise for opening his show
          with a monologue calling the shootings a terrorist attack and
          questioning whether the US was really prepared to take action against
          racism.


That's all from this live blog today. Thank you for reading. The rest of our
coverage continues here.

block-time published-time 2.33am ET

The Daily Show has now published the full version of Jon Stewart 's opening
monologue on Charleston and you can watch it here.

( For a read-only version, try here.)

The Daily Show with Jon Stewart.

block-time published-time 2.16am ET

Guardian reporters in Charleston have talked to some of those who have been
supporting relatives of the victims.

By the early hours of Thursday morning, relatives had gathered at the Embassy
Suites hotel, close to Emanuel church.

"Raw emotion was out," said Tamika Myers, who works for Blind Justice, a local
group that assists grieving relatives of shooting victims. "People were crying.
Some were passing out."

The identifies of only three victims were relayed to families that night, Myers
said. She said that by 5am the coroner, Rae H Wooten, had to explain why
identification was proving so difficult.

"What happened in there was brutal," Myers said. "It was gruesome."

block-time published-time 1.56am ET

The image of suspected killer Dylann Roof in a jacket emblazoned with the flags
of two racist states - Rhodesia and apartheid-era South Africa - ties him to
those who have made the emblems a symbol of so-called white resistance.

enltrThat's the flag of apartheid-era South Africa on Dylann Roof's jacket
pic.twitter.com/ex4cG15sVA

- Jon Swaine (@jonswaine) June 18, 2015

My colleague Chris McGreal has this analysis of how the defunct flags have found
new life among America's racists:

The two flags have become popular among groups such as the Aryan Nation, which
have embraced a myth of the genocide of whites in southern Africa pushed by
South Africans unhappy with their country's liberation from racist domination
...

They feel no shame for the crimes of apartheid and so have no embarrassment
about sporting the old South African flag or that of the former republic of
Rhodesia, which existed for just 15 years after its white minority leaders
unilaterally declared independence from Britain in 1965 rather than be
decolonised under a government run by the black majority.

Related: Charleston shootings: the apartheid era flags that have found new life
with America's racists

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.19am ET

block-time published-time 1.39am ET

Walter Jackson - whose mother, Susie Jackson, was, at 87, the oldest of the
shooting victims - has told the Guardian that she rarely missed a Sunday service
and was an integral part of the church's gospel choir.

Not so long ago, she won first prize in the annual church fair for her hot
deviled crab cakes. She greatly enjoyed the prize, Jackson said - two days at
the Charleston Hayatt.

Walter Jackson travelled from Cleveland, where he now lives, to rejoin his
grieving family in Charleston. He told the Guardian:

This is just senseless. To kill innocent people like that. It's hard on all of
us.

My mother was always there for us - she was always the one people would turn to
when they had a problem.

Susie Jackson, victim of the shooting at Emanuel Church, Charleston. Photograph:
Family Photo

block-time published-time 1.28am ET

My colleagues Ed Pilkington, Paul Lewis and Oliver Laughland are in Charleston
and have been piecing together the events of Wednesday that culminated in the
slaying of nine people in their church.

Here is a portion of their report:

Dylann Storm Roof walked up the 23 slate grey steps that lead up to the main
entrance of the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal church and asked for the
pastor. It was Wednesday, and that meant Bible study night.

No one, it seemed, thought to turn the young man away. The church in downtown
Charleston had a history of opening its doors to strangers that stretched back
decades.

Inside, a dozen regular members of the church were gathered around a table in a
meeting room in the basement. Having asked for the pastor, Roof sat down right
next to him.

Before the shooting started, Roof's youngest victim, 26-year-old student Tywanza
Sanders, released a Snapchat video to a friend. The video is grainy and shaky,
showing only the briefest glimpse of the scene. The bible group is seen sitting
around the table in a large, wood-panelled room that appeared to be in the
church's basement. Books and papers were on the table, and the group were sat on
fold-up chairs.

enltr"This is chilling to see." @donlemon shares excl new video of bible group
with shooter before killings. http://t.co/wX9rFe5gry

- CNN Tonight (@CNNTonight) June 18, 2015

One still image from the video shows Rev Clementa Pinckney, who also held a
position as a South Carolina state senator, in a green shirt, gesturing to the
others and possibly smiling. At least three other unidentified black people are
in the frame. At the far side of the table was Roof, partially eclipsed by his
soon-to-be victims.

So far only Sanders' seconds-long Snapchat, supplemented by an equally sketchy
indirect account given by one of the three survivors, have surfaced to provide
clues to what happened inside that room. What we do know is that for about an
hour Roof sat quietly among the worshippers as they studied the Bible.

Both local police and the FBI have declined to provide details about what
happened next.

However Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of Pinckney, relayed a harrowing account she
said was provided to her by a woman survivor.

Johnson told NBC that Roof made his move as the meeting was coming to an end.
"At the conclusion of the bible study, from what I understand, they just start
hearing loud noises ringing out. The suspect had already wounded a couple of
individuals, including my cousin."

Johnson said the survivor told her that Roof reloaded his weapon five times and
engaged in conversation with his victims as they pleaded with him to stop.

The survivor's son, who was also at the meeting, "was trying to talk him out of
doing that act of killing people", Johnson said.

She added that Roof replied: "I have to do it. You rape our women and you're
taking over our country. And you have to go."

block-time published-time 1.11am ET

Cynthia Taylor, the niece of Susie Jackson who was killed at the Emanuel church,
has been talking to Associated Press.

She says her aunt was a longtime member of the church and sang in the choir.

Taylor also told AP that she had spoken to a friend, Felecia Sanders, who was at
the church and survived the shooting.

Sanders reportedly played dead to avoid the killer, lying on top of her
granddaughter to - successfully - protect her.

block-time published-time 12.57am ET

Here is a clip of Jon Stewart 's opening monologue from Thursday night's Daily
Show, in which he labelled the Emanuel church massacre a terrorist attack and
predicted nothing would be done to change the culture that bred it.

You can read more of his words here.

Jon Stewart opens Daily Show with powerful monologue on Charleston shooting -
video.

block-time published-time 12.48am ET

More information emerges, this time via ABC News, that people close to Dylann
Roof had concerns about his views and behaviour.

Dalton Tyler, described by ABC News as Roof's roommate, reportedly told the
channel Roof had been "planning something like that for six months":

He was big into segregation and other stuff. He said he wanted to start a civil
war.

He said he was going to do something like that and then kill himself.

block-time published-time 12.30am ET

Friday's Charleston Post and Courier front page reflects the sombre tone of
today's memorials:

enltr"The unspeakable happened in our city." Friday's front page:
#CharlestonShootingpic.twitter.com/0tkkEqvGnB

- Deanna Pan (@DDpan) June 19, 2015

block-time published-time 12.10am ET

Jon Stewart's Daily Show monologue

The Daily Show has opened tonight with a powerful monologue from host Jon
Stewart slamming the deaths in Charleston and the culture that seeks to deny
that racism is behind such attacks.

Prior to introducing his guest - Nobel peace prize-winner Malala Yousafzai -
Stewart said his show would contain no jokes tonight in the wake of the
Charleston massacre.

This is a lengthy excerpt from his monologue, but this is something that bears
reading at length:

I have one job ... but I didn't do my job today. I've got nothing for you ...
because of what happened in South Carolina.

I have nothing other than just sadness that once again we have to peer into the
abyss of the depraved violence that we do to each other, and the nexus of a just
gaping racial wound that will not heal but we pretend doesn't exist.

I'm confident, though, that by acknowledging it, by staring into that and seeing
it for what it is, we still won't do jackshit.

Yeah. That's us.

That's the part that blows my mind. I don't want to get into the political
argument of the guns ... What blows my mind is the disparity of response between
when we think people that are foreign are going to kill us and us killing
ourselves.

If this had been what we thought was Islamic terrorism ... we invaded two
countries and spent trillions of dollars and thousands of American lives, and
now fly unmanned death machines over, like, five or six different countries. All
to keep Americans safe. We've got to do whatever we can. We'll torture people
...

Nine people. Shot in a church. What about that? <shrugs> Eh. What are you gonna
do? Crazy is as crazy is, right?

That's the part that I cannot for the life of me wrap my head around.

And you know it. You know that it's going to go down the same path: 'it's a
terrible tragedy'. They're already using the nuanced language of lack of effort
for this.

This is a terrorist attack. This is a violent attack on the Emanuel church in
South Carolina, which is a symbol for the black community ...

To pretend that - I heard someone on the news say, a tragedy has visited this
church ... this wasn't a tornado. This was racist. This was a guy with a
Rhodesia badge on his sweater ...

This one is black and white. There's no nuance here.

And we're going to keep pretending: I don't get it, what happened, there's one
guy lost his mind. We are steeped in that culture in this country and we refuse
to recognise it, and I cannot believe how hard people are working to discount
it.

In South Carolina, the roads that black people drive on are named for
confederate generals who fought to keep black people from being able to drive
freely on that road. That's insanity. That's racial wallpaper. You can't allow
that.

Nine people were shot in a black church by a white guy who hated them, who
wanted to start some kind of civil war.

The confederate flag flies over South Carolina. And the roads are named for
confederate generals. And the white guy's the one who feels like his country's
being taken away from him.

Daily Show host Jon Stewart. Photograph: Brad Barket/AP

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.37am ET

block-time published-time 11.42pm ET

Night has fallen in Charleston, as vigils draw to a close:

enltrEmanuel AME church #CharlestonShootingpic.twitter.com/3uOGcd8J6o

- Tracy Clemons (@TracyABC13) June 19, 2015

block-time published-time 11.23pm ET

As investigators try to piece together the background of Dylann Roof, now in
custody in Charleston in connection with the church massacre, a childhood friend
has told Associated Press that Roof had talked of the need for something to be
done "for the white race":

Dylann Storm Roof recently reconnected with a childhood buddy he hadn't seen in
five years and started railing about black people "taking over the world" and
the need for something to be done for "the white race", the friend said on
Thursday.

In an interview with the Associated Press, Joseph Meek Jr. said he and Roof had
been best friends in middle school but lost touch when Roof moved away about
five years ago. The two reconnected a few weeks ago after Roof reached out to
Meek on Facebook, Meek said.

Roof never talked about race years ago when they were friends, but recently made
remarks about the killing of unarmed black 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in Florida
and the riots in Baltimore over the death of Freddie Gray in police custody,
Meek said.

"He said blacks were taking over the world. Someone needed to do something about
it for the white race," Meek said. "He said he wanted segregation between whites
and blacks. I said, 'That's not the way it should be.' But he kept talking about
it."

He said that when he woke up on Wednesday morning, Roof was at his house,
sleeping in his car outside. Later that day, Meek went to a nearby lake with a
couple of other people, but Roof hated the outdoors and decided he'd rather go
see a movie.

Meek said he didn't see his friend again until a surveillance-camera image of a
man walking into the church was broadcast on television Thursday morning. Meek
said he didn't think twice about picking up the phone and calling authorities.

"I didn't think it was him. I knew it was him," Meek said.

block-time published-time 11.10pm ET

Sharonda Coleman-Singleton was herself a track and field coach at Goose Creek
high school, which has mounted a tribute to her:

enltrAbsolutely beautiful memorial to Coach Singleton on the Gator at GCHS
stadium. She was a T&F Coach. @WCBD#chsnewspic.twitter.com/4RcffBJ5jz

- Lainie Fritz (@lainiefritz) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 10.58pm ET

Chris Singleton speaks about his mother

Chris Singleton, the son of Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, one of the victims of
the Emanuel AME church massacre, has just been speaking to reporters, surrounded
by what he called his "baseball family", the players and coaches of Charleston
Southern University.

Facing the public barely 24 hours after his mother was murdered, he spoke at
length about her, and his reaction to the mass killing:

I just want to say thanks to everybody that looked out for me and ... reached
out to me.

We are mourning right now but I know we will get through it.

My mom was a god-fearing woman, she loved everybody with all her heart.

To the other families: I'm sorry about what happened. Obviously you guys are as
devastated as we are.

Asked how he would carry on after his mother's death, Singleton said:

I'm probably going to push myself harder in everything I do. Every time I do
something good I'll probably give her a little wink or something, in the sky.

I just think about her smile. She smiles 24/7.

My mom was something else when I was playing ball.

Rev Sharonda Coleman-Singleton and her son. Photograph: Facebook

Singleton said he had been attending Emanuel AME church since he was in sixth
grade:

It's like I'm everyone's grandson.

We will get through it, the church will get through it.

And asked about how the Charleston community has responded to the killings, he
said:

Love is always stronger than hate. We just love the way my mom did and the hate
won't be anywhere close to what the love is.

Tragedies happen but life is going to go on and it's going to get better.

Honestly, my knees are a little weak right now, but I try to stay as strong as I
can while I press on.

Singleton - who also has a brother and a sister - later tweeted his thanks to
those who came to see him speak:

enltrThanks to everyone that came to Goose Creek tonight to show support to my
mom and my family, your thoughts and prayers are appreciated ????????

- Chris Singleton (@csingleton__2) June 19, 2015

(With thanks to CS Tyson, whose Periscope feed I relied on to watch the speech.)

block-time published-time 10.38pm ET

The vigils in Charleston are drawing to a close this evening, but we will
continue to round up voices and images from those who have come to mourn the
nine dead.

Here, my colleague Oliver Laughland speaks to Pastor Cress Darwin, of Second
Presbyterian church.

The Guardian's Oliver Laughland interviews Pastor Cress Darwin, of Second
Presbyterian church, next to Emanuel church where the shootings took place.

block-time published-time 10.18pm ET

More extraordinary details are emerging about the capture of suspect Dylann Roof
and the role of Debbie Dills, the florist who spotted Roof's car and followed
him for 35 miles until he was apprehended - peacefully - by police officers.

Dills told the local Shelby Star that she had spotted the car on her drive to
work around 10.30am on Thursday:

I saw the pictures of him with the bowl cut. I said, I've seen that car for some
reason. I look over, and it's got a South Carolina tag on it.

I thought, nah, that's not his car. Then, I got closer and saw that haircut. I
was nervous. I had the worst feeling. Is that him or not him?

Dills called her boss, Todd Frady, who contacted the Kings Mountain Police
Department, and kept both callers in touch throughout the pursuit. Dills
continued to tail the black car:

What if that really was him? ... It kept eating at me, and something told me to
keep following him.

When she saw police officers begin to follow the vehicle, Dills stayed on its
tail, also, watching it being pulled over. The driver did not speed up, she told
the Shelby Star :

He wasn't doing anything abnormal,. He wasn't driving slow. He was just driving.
He just kept going.

Todd Frady, left, and Debbie Dills of Frady's Florist in Kings Mountain.
Photograph: Steve Reed/AP

block-time published-time 10.01pm ET

The distinctive car driven away from the church by the suspect is being returned
to South Carolina.

Police issued images of the black, four-door sedan, said to have Confederate
flag licence plates, as they searched for the gunman.

Debbie Dills, the North Carolina woman whose call to the police led to the
arrest of Dylann Roof, said she had first recognised the car.

enltrChief @ShelbyPolice say investigators impounded the car #CharlestonShooting
suspect was driving; now being towed bk 2 #Charleston@WBTV_News

- Coleen Harry WBTV (@ColeenHarryWBTV) June 19, 2015

block-time published-time 9.54pm ET

There are reports of a further bomb threat in Charleston.

It's worth remembering that this is the latest in a series of bomb threats that
have been made since the shooting on Wednesday night. All so far have resulted
in an all-clear. Police are obviously obliged to take them seriously in the
meantime.

enltrJUST IN: Charleston Dispatch confirms @ChasCoSheriff responding to Sheriff
Al Cannon Detention Center for bomb threat. #chsnews

- WCBD (@WCBD) June 19, 2015

block-time published-time 9.44pm ET

The Charleston Regional Business Journal reports that Boeing South Carolina is
to donate $100,000 to a fund set up to help relatives of the victims of the
Emanuel church shooting.

In a statement on the aircraft manufacturer's website, Beverly Wyse, Boeing
South Carolina vice-president, says:

Our community is experiencing immense grief and mourning as we all try to come
to grips with this horrible tragedy.

But our community is revealing its true character as well, which is rooted in
courage, hope and resilience.

Boeing's commitment to this community is deep and strong, and we share in its
grief. We are also committed to being a part of the healing in the days and
weeks to come, and we continue to keep the families and friends of the victims
in our thoughts and prayers.

block-time published-time 9.22pm ET

Summary

My colleague Amanda Holpuch files this round-up of the latest developments:

Dylann Storm Roof was jailed in Charleston, South Carolina on Thursday night -
less than 24 hours after police say he killed nine people in a shooting rampage
at a bible study class in what is known as "the holy city".

As Roof sat behind bars, mourners gathered across the country to celebrate the
lives of those lost. Families of the victims - whose ages ranged from 26 to 87 -
gathered outside the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, the
scene of the shooting.

The prevailing image of 21-year-old Roof that emerged on Thursday was of a young
man in a jacket embellished with patches representing white-ruled Rhodesia and
apartheid-era South Africa - two flags now associated with white supremacists,
according to the Southern Poverty Law Center.

But on Thursday night, he was clad in prisoners' black and white stripes for a
flight from North Carolina, where he was caught during a traffic stop. He waived
extradition and was sent back to South Carolina.

Charleston county sheriff's office is holding Roof in isolation at a detention
center and he faces nine counts of murder, according to Live5 news.

"In America, you know, we don't let bad people like this get away with these
dastardly deeds," Charleston mayor Joseph P Riley Jr said at a press conference.

Peggy Blake shows off a sign she made to family members of Susie Jackson, who
died in Wednesday's shooting, as she walks through her neighborhood to a
memorial outside the Emanuel AME Church. Photograph: David Goldman/AP

Meanwhile, the streets outside Emanuel church were crowded with flowers and
people who wished to pay their respects to the dead: Cynthia Hurd, 54; Susie
Jackson, 87; Ethel Lance, 70; DePayne Middleton-Doctor, 49; Clementa Pickney,
41; Tywanza Sanders, 26; Daniel Simmons, 74; Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, 45, and
Myra Thompson, 59.

Vigils were also held across the US, including in Nebraska, New York and
Florida.

Charleston is more than 100 miles from Eastover, where Roof lived. He also had
ties to nearby Lexington, where he attended multiple schools. Earlier this year,
Roof had been arrested twice: for a drug charge and trespassing.

block-time published-time 9.07pm ET

This is the Snapchat video - reportedly filmed by Tywanza Sanders, one of those
who was killed - showing the bible study group meeting inside Emanuel AME church
on Wednesday evening.

It was broadcast a short while ago by CNN and shows a brief glimpse of a young
white man sitting around the table with the people who would become his victims.

enltr"This is chilling to see." @donlemon shares excl new video of bible group
with shooter before killings. http://t.co/wX9rFe5gry

- CNN Tonight (@CNNTonight) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 9.04pm ET

My colleague Oliver Laughland is with those attending vigils in Charleston
tonight.

The massacre at Emanuel AME church came less than three months after Walter
Scott, a 50-year-old black man from North Charleston, was shot eight times in
the back by a white police officer in April. The officer has been charged with
murder.

enltrTamika Meyers bought this t-shirt after Walter Scott died. She's wearing it
again today #CharlestonShootingpic.twitter.com/rVQYPqKEMj

- Oliver Laughland (@oliverlaughland) June 19, 2015

block-time published-time 8.57pm ET

Video shows suspect at bible study group

CNN has just broadcast some video - uneventful in any other circumstances, but
extraordinary and chilling given what was to unfold.

The short video - apparently filmed and posted to Snapchat by Tywanza Sanders,
one of those who was later shot and killed - shows the bible study group meeting
inside Emanuel AME church on Wednesday evening.

There is a brief glimpse of a young white man, seated around a table with the
other members of the group.

That man is now believed to be Dylann Roof.

The video, labelled "Bible study knowledge planter", shows a small group
gathered around a table together.

I will try to bring you the images shortly.

Update: you can now see the video in this post.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.08pm ET

block-time published-time 8.47pm ET

My colleague Ed Pilkington is at the Charleston vigil and sends this dispatch:

About 200 people are gathering outside the Mother Emanuel AME church and laying
flowers at the makeshift memorial at the foot of the church steps that is now
growing large.

They were led by a group of pastors in full religious regalia, one carrying a
cross. Reverend Sydney Davies, pastor of Zion Olivet Presbyterian church in
Charleston, said a brief prayer.

"The last word is the living God," he said. "When people ask you what happened
here, tell them we go with the love of God."

block-time published-time 8.43pm ET

Although the view is obscured, this video clip by WCIV reporter Daren Stoltzfus
shows the return of suspect Dylann Roof to Charleston:

enltrDylann Roof's transfer inside Al Cannon Detention Center. Media pushed
back- hard to see #CharlestonShootingpic.twitter.com/Lq5d3ALLRY

- Daren Stoltzfus (@DarenStoltzfus) June 19, 2015

As far as we know, charges have not yet been laid against Roof. My colleagues
were told by Charleston police around an hour ago that his arrest warrant had
not yet been issued.

block-time published-time 8.36pm ET

My colleague Ed Pilkington is in Charleston and sends these images of the
burgeoning memorial outside the Emanuel AME church:

enltrPeople leaving flowers at the growing makeshift memorial at Emanuel AME
church #Charlestonhttps://t.co/7e0uBY4BPx

- Ed Pilkington (@Edpilkington) June 19, 2015

block-time published-time 8.25pm ET

Summary

Hello, this is Claire Phipps taking over this blog from Jessica Glenza.

We will continue to bring together coverage from the vigils taking place in
Charleston and across the country as mourners remember the nine people who were
shot dead in their church on Wednesday night.

Here is a brief round-up of what we now know:


     ·    Suspect Dylann Roof has been booked in Charleston county jail. It is
          believed he will appear in court at 2pm on Friday.
     ·    The nine people - six women and three men - killed in the historic
          black church of Emanuel AME church have been identified. They were Rev
          Clementa Pinckney, Tywanza Sanders, Sharonda Coleman-Singleton,
          Cynthia Hurd, DePayne Middleton-Doctor, Rev Dr Daniel L Simmons Jr,
          Ethel Lance, Myra Thompson and Susie Jackson. You can read more about
          all of them here.
     ·    Roof was captured without incident in North Carolina, after a local
          florist who was late for work alerted police to "suspicious activity".
          he waived extradition to be returned to Charleston.
     ·    Barack Obamasaid he felt both sadness and anger at the shootings and
          said America must come to grips with its record on gun violence.
     ·    The shooting is being investigated as a hate crime. " There is
          absolutely no doubt in my mind that it is hate crime," police chief
          Greg Mullen told a news conference without elaborating. The Department
          of Justice has launched a federal civil rights investigation into the
          shooting.
     ·    Three people survived the attack, police said. Their condition has not
          yet been disclosed.


    Parishioners in Benton Harbor, Michigan, gather during a vigil to mourn the
lives lost at the shooting in Charleston. Photograph: Don Campbell/AP

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.26pm ET

block-time published-time 8.16pm ET

With that, I'm going to pass over to Guardian senior live blogger Claire Phipps.

block-time published-time 8.16pm ET

Here is more from Charleston residents who have gathered at Emanuel AME Church
following the mass shooting that killed nine Wednesday evening.

Avis Williamsgrant, 49, a Charleston resident, tells Guardian reporter Oliver
Laughland about the Charleston church community there, and how she views the
crime committed at Emanuel AME Church.

I'm not saying it's a hate crime, I'm just thinking that the devil stopped in.
And I'm praying for the young man also. You know, even though he did what we he
did, but god is going to handle that situation."

block-time published-time 8.07pm ET

Local news outlets are now reporting that Dylann Roof, suspect in the shooting
deaths of nine men and women at the Emanuel AME Church, has been booked in
Charleston County jail.

enltr #BreakingNews - #DylannRoof has been booked in Charleston County.
http://t.co/xLffSuFWOkpic.twitter.com/3daQviqY0r

- ABC11 EyewitnessNews (@ABC11_WTVD) June 19, 2015

block-time published-time 8.04pm ET

Mourners in Charleston, South Carolina have covered the base of Emanuel AME
Church with flowers.

enltrPeople are bringing flowers to the #CharlestonShooting church
#chsnewspic.twitter.com/Q0gBPyhld2

- Melissa Boughton (@mboughtonPC) June 19, 2015

block-time published-time 7.57pm ET

President Obama's comments on the massacre in Charleston weren't his first on
gun control. Over six years, Obama has made dozens of comments during his six
years as president.

Guardian assistant news editor Erin McCannchronicles those comments here :

On 3 April 2009, barely two months after Obama was sworn in, 13 people were
killed and four wounded at a cultural center in Binghamton, New York.

Obama's response was brief, and made no mention of gun violence. It was later
revealed the shooter fired 98 shots from two handguns in less than a minute:

Michelle and I were shocked and deeply saddened to learn about the act of
senseless violence in Binghamton, NY today. Our thoughts and prayers go out to
the victims, their families and the people of Binghamton.

block-time published-time 7.52pm ET

Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, in comments to the National
Conference of Latino Elected Officials in Las Vegas, Nevada, talked about the
massacre in Charleston.

Clinton visited Trident Technical College in Charleston on Wednesday.

When I got to Las Vegas, I learned about the horrific massacre in the church.
You know the shock and pain of this crime of hate strikes deep. Nine
people-women and men-cut down at prayer. Murdered in a house of God. It just
broke my heart. That of course is the last place we should ever see violence. We
shouldn't see it anywhere.

In the days ahead we will once again ask what led to this terrible tragedy and
where we as a nation need to go. In order to make sense of it, we have to be
honest. We have to face hard truths about race, violence, guns, and division.

Today, we join our hearts with the people of Charleston and South Carolina -
people everywhere - who pray for the victims, who pray for the families, who
pray for a community that knows too much sorrow. And we pray for justice. That
the people of Charleston find peace and that our country finds unity.

block-time published-time 7.45pm ET

There is incredibly emotional vigil being held at the Ebenezer Baptist Church in
Charleston, South Carolina right now.

Watch it live with the link below.

enltrWATCH LIVE: Ebenezer Baptist Church holding prayer vigil for
#CharlestonShooting victims http://t.co/hQxI1GbkWipic.twitter.com/143AKCjLnw

- WSB-TV (@wsbtv) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 7.39pm ET

This seems like a good moment to talk more about the victims of this mass
shooting. Six women and three men were killed, all identified by the Charleston
county coroner Rae Wooten this afternoon.

Among them was a part-time barber, recent college graduate and poet, 26-year-old
Tywanza Sanders. Well-respected, long-time pastor and South Carolina senator
Clementa Pinckney was killed, as was high school track coach and mother Sharonda
Coleman-Singleton.

Here is a brief profile on each of the nine victims.

enltrAbsolutely beautiful memorial to Coach Singleton on the Gator at GCHS
stadium. She was a T&F Coach. @WCBD#chsnewspic.twitter.com/4RcffBJ5jz

- Lainie Fritz (@lainiefritz) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 7.36pm ET

As mourners gather at churches around Charleston, and the nation, shooting
suspect Dylann Roof arrives in Charleston from Shelby, North Carolina.

enltrIt's a full house at Second Presbyterian Church on Meeting St, community
prayer service #CharlestonShooting#chsnewspic.twitter.com/LIJfcyQVZ6

- Melissa Boughton (@mboughtonPC) June 18, 2015

enltr"Satan came to say white and black cannot praise God. It didn't happen to
African Americans or the AME church. It happened to all of us"

- William Joy (@WilliamLive5) June 18, 2015

William Joy, a reporter for WCSC, is inside the Second Presbyterian Church in
Charleston, on Meeting Street.

enltrSuspect in #CharlestonChurchShooting returns to Charleston after his
capture in NC @FCN2go@WLTX@StevenDialTVpic.twitter.com/9G6lfFFfNE

- Joe Massa (@tvjoe12) June 18, 2015

Roof will be held at the Charleston County jail, we're told by Charleston
police. Although there are reports about how Roof will be charged, we're told by
Charleston police that his arrest warrant has not yet been issued.

block-time published-time 7.21pm ET

We've just tuned into a vigil at the Second Presbyterian Church in Charleston.
Here is a link to a live stream, if you'd like to watch it with us.

All of us carry the name Emanuel," a clergyman tells the crowd.

enltrAt Second Presbyterian Church. pic.twitter.com/ziBVP5v9KK

- Shawn Drury (@ShawnDrurySC) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 7.03pm ET

Kieysha Townsell, 30, a resident of Charleston, talks to Oliver Laughland about
what happened at Emanuel AME Church. She had never been to the church before,
but said she went to "pay my respects."

She called the shooting in Charleston "salt in an open wound" after the shooting
of Walter Scott in nearby North Charleston.

Kieysha Townsell, a Charleston resident, talks with Guardian reporter Oliver
Laughland about the massacre inside of Emanuel AME Church.

block-time published-time 6.47pm ET

Vigils have started in New York City, where poetry is reportedly being read.

enltrPoetry being read at #UnionSquare#NYC for #CharlestonShooting vigil!
#BlackLivesMatterpic.twitter.com/Y4hoELhPSb

- Ash J (@AshAgony) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 6.43pm ET

Hurt is evident in Charleston, South Carolina outside of Emanuel AME Church.

This community was also shaken when in April, in nearby North Charleston, black
American Walter Scott was shot in the back by a white police officer. That
officer has since been charged with murder.

enltrSigns outside the Emanuel AME church in Charleston
#CharlestonShooting#BlackLivesMatterpic.twitter.com/RQb9f3KVS4

- Oliver Laughland (@oliverlaughland) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 6.39pm ET

NBC Nightly News is now reporting that officials also believe Dylann Roof was
given a gun for his birthday, as his uncle previously told Reuters.

enltrSuspect in Charleston massacre received gun as a gift from his father,
officials say. @MarkPotterNBC reports now pic.twitter.com/gUj5KDxhiO

- NBC Nightly News (@NBCNightlyNews) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 6.34pm ET

Vigils around the country will be starting soon.

This weekend, several churches have already committed to ring their bells at the
same time to commemorate the victims of the Emanuel AME Church shooting in
Charleston, South Carolina.

#Charleston, South Carolina, is often referred to as the 'Holy City,' a place
where church steeples - not skyscrapers - dot the skyline. This Sunday at 10 am,
our church bells will ring loudly and proudly to proclaim our community's
unity," the Charleston Area Convention and Visitors Bureau said in a statement.

In Charleston, South Carolina, all the city's churches have agreed to ring their
bells in unison on Sunday, in memory of the nine victims killed at the Emanuel
AME Church, Wednesday.

enltrEvery Chuch Bell in Charleston to Ring in Solidarity for Mother Emanuel
Church http://t.co/tuONcFvZpy#CharlestonUnited#CharlestonStrong

- Charleston Area CVB (@ExploreCHS) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 6.22pm ET

Guardian reporter Oliver Laughland is in front of Emanuel AME Church in
Charleston, interviewing residents about the massacre that took place Wednesday
evening.

It's just mind-boggling, I don't have the right words to say it - just shocked.
I'm in shock you know it even happened, it even happened here, and the way it
happened, you know? And the way it happened.

These were innocent people. They were godly people."

Guardian reporter Oliver Laughland speaks with resident outside of Emanuel AME
Church, after a gunman opened fire inside Wednesday evening, killing nine.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.34pm ET

block-time published-time 6.14pm ET

Dylann Roof is now being walked to a plane that will take him from Shelby, North
Carolina to Charleston, South Carolina. He is wearing black and white stripes
and a bullet-proof vest.

enltrLIVE: Charleston shooting suspect at NC airport
http://t.co/bDstIRtwHr#chsnewspic.twitter.com/Hqi4NYRWBP

- Live5News (@Live5News) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 6.02pm ET

One of the victims, long-time Charleston librarian Cynthia Hurd, was also a
part-time research librarian at the College of Charleston from the early 1990s.

It is an understatement to say that Cynthia was dependable and an irreplaceable
asset to our campus and to the countless library patrons she assisted over the
years. She was a protector and lover of books and a fountain of knowledge whose
loss will be felt by our entire College community.

Cynthia worked tirelessly to serve and improve her beloved city and its people.
She was an advocate for education and life-long learning. Prior to becoming
manager of the St. Andrews branch, Cynthia was a branch manager of John L. Dart
Branch Library from 1990 to 2011," the college said in a statement.

You can read the rest of the college's statement here, and about eight more
victims of the shooting here.

block-time published-time 5.38pm ET

Guardian reporter Oliver Laughland ( @oliverlaughland ) is in Charleston, in
front of the Emanuel AME church now. We'll bring you some of his interviews
shortly.

enltrAt the memorial outside Emanuel AME church in Charleston
#CharlestonShootingpic.twitter.com/CkRlwljaUP

- Oliver Laughland (@oliverlaughland) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 5.31pm ET

Several vigils have been scheduled in Charleston, South Carolina and around the
country, many organized under the #PrayForCharleston tag, most in the evening.

enltrWe invite you to join our Social Justice Ministry this evening at 8pm for a
call in prayer vigil #PrayForCharlestonpic.twitter.com/ye5rFCKj7W

- Alfred Street BC (@AlfredStreetBC) June 18, 2015

I've seen other vigils scheduled in places as far away as Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania and Seattle, Washington, and as near as Greenville, South Carolina.

Additionally, we're waiting on Rev. Al Sharpton to begin broadcasting live from
Charleston, at 6pm on MSNBC.

enltrI am live from Charllrston, SC tonight on Politics Nation w/ Al Sharpton
live at 6 pm est on MSNBC.

- Reverend Al Sharpton (@TheRevAl) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 5.12pm ET

WCSC is reporting that suspect Dylann Roof will be transported to Charleston,
South Carolina from Shelby, North Carolina (where he was captured) via plane,
and that it is an approximately 30 minute flight. Otherwise, Shelby is a little
more than four hours from Charleston.

Here is a link to the live stream we're watching which shows the plane that is
believed to be transporting Roof.

block-time published-time 5.01pm ET

Coleen Harris, a reporter with Charlotte, North Carolina station WBTV has just
shared a photo of Dylann Roof's waiver of extradition, which he signed.

enltrJust got copy of #CharlestonShooting suspect #DylannRoof waiver of
extradition that he signed. @WBTV_Newspic.twitter.com/4WCc8oySRs

- Coleen Harry WBTV (@ColeenHarryWBTV) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 4.48pm ET

Summary

Here's an updated summary of what we know so far:


     ·    Six women and three men were killed when a white suspect opened fire
          in the historic black church of Emanuel AME church in Charleston,
          South Carolina.
     ·    All nine victims have since been identified by the coroner.
     ·    The suspect was identified as 21-year-old Columbia, South Carolina
          resident Dylann Roof.
     ·    Roof made his first appearance in court in Shelby, North Carolina,
          where he waived extradition. Roof is reportedly en route back to
          Charleston, where he will face charges.
     ·    Roof was captured without incident, after a local florist who was late
          for work alerted police to "suspicious activity".
     ·    Barack Obamasaid he felt both sadness and anger at the shootings and
          said America must come to grips with its record on gun violence.
     ·    The shooting is being investigated as a hate crime. " There is
          absolutely no doubt in my mind that it is hate crime," police chief
          Greg Mullen told a news conference without elaborating. The Department
          of Justice has launched a federal civil rights investigation into the
          shooting.
     ·    Three people survived the attack, police said.


That's it from me for today. Handing over to Jessica Glenza.

block-time published-time 4.38pm ET

Roof has waived extradition, and is on his way back to Charleston, according to
WBTV's Harry.

enltrattys 4 #CharlestonShooting suspect #DylannRoof were not in court w/him.
They say court officials told them he waived extradition. @WBTV_News

- Coleen Harry WBTV (@ColeenHarryWBTV) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 4.37pm ET

According to Coleen Harry, the WBTV reporter at the courthouse in Shelby, Roof
went to court without his attorneys who were waiting for him at the clerk's
office:

enltrAttys waiting at clerk's Ofc were supposed 2 go 2 court w/
#CharlestonShootings suspect; he went w/out them.
@WBTV_Newspic.twitter.com/e2guZjqm7n

- Coleen Harry WBTV (@ColeenHarryWBTV) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 4.35pm ET

Charleston PD spokesperson said that in theory, Roof's paperwork for transfer to
South Carolina must be approved by the North Carolina courthouse. Once that's
done he should be brought back to Charleston where the court will be set and he
will face the charges in Charleston. He should be brought back to Charleston by
the Charleston PD or the Charleston County Police.

As an administrative matter, it appears that Roof will need to be charged in
South Carolina for his crimes, writes my colleague Jessica Glenza. This is per
Chapter 9 of the South Carolina legislature's website, pertaining to
extradition.

The person must be charged in the requesting state [South Carolina] in the
manner set forth in Section 17-9-10; provided, however, the person need not have
been in the requesting state at the time of the commission of the crime in that
state and need not have fled from that state."

block-time published-time 4.31pm ET

My colleague Lauren Gambino has confirmed with the Charleston PD spokesperson
Charles Francis, that Roof is currently in the custody of Shelby PD and is
heading to his first court appearance in Shelby.

According to the local CBS affiliate WBTV, he is heading to Cleveland County
courthouse in Shelby, but the court will unusually be closed to the public. Only
law enforcement officials will be allowed in.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.32pm ET

block-time published-time 4.19pm ET

Charleston officials have given the all clear on the bomb threat at county
building:

enltrUPDATE: At 3:50 pm, #Charleston officials said "all clear" on bomb threat
at county building. #chsnews#CharlestonShooting@mboughtonPC

- The Post and Courier (@postandcourier) June 18, 2015

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.23pm ET

block-time published-time 4.09pm ET

The Shelby Starr has profiled the florist who reportedly led police to Dylann
Roof. Debbie Dills was running "a little late" to work at Frady's Florist this
morning, when she spotted Roof from her car:

I saw the news coverage last night and the picture of the car. I knew it was a
black car, and it had a tag on the front. I saw the pictures of him with the
bowl cut," Dills said through tears. "Since it happened I was praying for them
and the church. I was in the right place at the right time that the Lord puts
you."

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.23pm ET

block-time published-time 4.03pm ET

And another picture of Roof:

enltr #DylannRoof looks around at our cameras while being escorted to patrol
car. #CharlestonShootingpic.twitter.com/3QXUEY94ch

- Audrina Bigos (@AudrinaBigos) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 4.01pm ET

Roof was just seen leaving the Shelby police station, on his way to court for
his arraignment:

enltr #CharlestonShooting suspect #DylannRoof just walked out of @ShelbyPolice
station on his way to court pic.twitter.com/sIiru2UKa7

- WSOCTV (@wsoctv) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 3.59pm ET

The only suspect in the shooting, Dylann Roof does not seem to have a heavy
social media presence. Despite this, a picture is beginning to emerge of an
"introverted" man with a recent record of criminal behavior, writes my colleague
Jessica Glenza:

Dylann Roof is pictured in this undated booking photo provided by the Lexington
County Sheriff' Department. Photograph: HANDOUT/REUTERS

"I don't know what was going through his head," Konzny said. "He was a really
sweet kid. He was quiet. He only had a few friends."

A high-school contemporary, John Mullins, told the Daily Beast that the young
Roof had been "kind of wild".

"He used drugs heavily a lot," Mullins said. "It was obviously harder than
marijuana. He was like a pill popper, from what I understood. Like Xanax, and
stuff like that."

He added: "He made a lot of racist jokes, but you don't really take them
seriously like that. You don't really think of it like that." But now, he said,
it seemed that "the things he said were kind of not joking".

Read her profile of Roof here.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.02pm ET

block-time published-time 3.43pm ET

A "threat" caused the evacuation of the building where the coroner just spoke:

enltrBREAKING: Alarms sounding in #CharlestonCounty Building. Media being
evacuated due to reported threat on building at Bridge View Dr.

- The Post and Courier (@postandcourier) June 18, 2015

enltrThere's a threat at Chas council headquarters and we're being evacuated
#chsnews

- William Joy (@WilliamLive5) June 18, 2015

This would be the second evacuation of the day due to a "threat".

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.45pm ET

block-time published-time 3.32pm ET

All nine victims identified

The names and ages of all the victims are:


     ·    Cynthia Hurd, 54
     ·    Susie Jackson, 87
     ·    Ethel Lance, 70
     ·    Rev DePayne Middleton-Doctor, 49
     ·    Hon Rev Clementa Pinckney, 41
     ·    Tywanza Sanders, 26
     ·    Rev Daniel Simmons Snr, 74 - (Only victim to die in hospital, at MUSC)
     ·    Rev Sharonda Singleton, 45
     ·    Myra Thompson, 59


block-time published-time 3.31pm ET

Elliott Summey, the Chairman of the city council is now speaking at the press
conference and is visibly emotional: Senator Pinckney was a friend and two
employees lost their lives in the shooting.

He also announced that the city was going to rename the St Andrews library, the
Cynthia Hurd Regional Library. Hurd was a library employee for 31 years.

block-time published-time 3.16pm ET

Wooten has released the names of all nine victims, these will be posted here as
soon as we have correct spellings.

A full autopsy will be conducted on all victims, per procedure. No further
details on memorial services and plans for future services.

block-time published-time 3.10pm ET

Coroner Rae Wooten is now speaking:

block-time published-time 3.08pm ET

The shooting of nine black church-goers in Charleston (not far from where Scott
was killed) by a white gunman in what police are treating as a "hate crime"
marks a doubling down on the nation's twin pathologies of racism and guns,
writes my colleague Gary Younge.

Racism isn't dead. We know this because it keeps killing black people.

The fact that Clementa Pinckney, a state senator, was among the dead indicates
that nobody is safe. The fact that it took place in a church during a prayer
meeting indicates that nowhere is safe.

America does not have a monopoly on racism. But what makes its racism so lethal
is the ease with which people can acquire guns. While the new conversation
around race will mean the political response to the fact of this attack will be
different, the stale conversation around gun control means the legislative
response to the nature of this attack will remain the same. Nothing will happen.

Read Gary's piece in full here.

block-time published-time 2.58pm ET

Charleston County Coroner Rae Wooten will hold a 3pm news conference to identify
the nine victims of last night's shooting.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.01pm ET

block-time published-time 2.44pm ET

Richard Cohen, the president of the Southern Poverty Law Center, an organization
which tracks hate crimes in the US, has called the Charlestonchurch shooting an
"obvious hate crime":

A white man who admires apartheid walks into a black church and kills nine
people. According to an eyewitness, he says that he has "to do it" because black
people "rape our women" and are "taking over our country." It's an obvious hate
crime by someone who feels threatened by our country's changing demographics and
the increasing prominence of African Americans in public life.

Since 2000, we've seen an increase in the number of hate groups in our country -
groups that vilify others on the basis of characteristics such as race or
ethnicity. Though the numbers have gone down somewhat in the last two years,
they are still at historically high levels. The increase has been driven by a
backlash to the country's increasing racial diversity, an increase symbolized,
for many, by the presence of an African American in the White House."

Read his full remarks here.

block-time published-time 2.32pm ET

The Charleston Post & Courier has identified two more victims, killed in
Wednesday night's shooting:

5. Ethel Lance, who was identified by her grandson as someone who had worked for
30 years at the church.

6. Susie Jackson, Lance's cousin who was named by a relative and was a longtime
church member.

Read here for more on the four victims previously identified.

block-time published-time 2.17pm ET

Charleston County Sheriffs have now repotedly cleared the bomb threat:

enltrBomb threat at 15 Morris Street is all clear.

- ChasCoSheriff (@ChasCoSheriff) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 2.16pm ET

People were reportedly evacuated form the church, and the area surrounding the
church was cleared by police.

enltrPolice pushing people back away from the church. Only officers allowed in
church now. #CHSnewspic.twitter.com/s3xsizB9g3

- CS Tyson (@SamInteractive) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 2.07pm ET

Authorities in Charleston are reportedly responding to a bomb threat at the
Morris Brown church where a vigil for the victims of the shooting was being
held:

enltr #BREAKING : Authorities responding to bomb threat at Morris Brown AME
Church. #CharlestonShooting Details soon on http://t.co/xXpValnPvM

- WCBD (@WCBD) June 18, 2015

enltrAnd I've just been told by police that there's a bomb threat at the church.
#CHSnews

- CS Tyson (@SamInteractive) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 1.58pm ET

My colleagues in London have drawn up an interactive, with a detailed view of
everything we know so far about the shooting, namely: what we know about the
suspect, who has died and some facts on the numbers of hate crimes in the US.

Related: What happened at the Charleston, South Carolina, church shooting?

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.05pm ET

block-time published-time 1.48pm ET

A view from inside the Morris Brown AME Church vigil:

enltrThe atmosphere is nearly jubilant as they hold hands and sing.
pic.twitter.com/W2SREEgTKE

- CS Tyson (@SamInteractive) June 18, 2015

enltr"We shall overcome" #CharlestonShooting@ABCNews4pic.twitter.com/9xwWJ67WVN

- Dave MacQueen (@DaveMacQueen1) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 1.36pm ET

Summary

Here's an updated summary of what we know so far:


     ·    Six women and three men were killed when a white suspect opened fire
          in the historic black church of Emanuel AME church in Charleston,
          South Carolina.
     ·    Four victimshave so far been identified : two men, Tywanza Sanders and
          Senator Clementa Pinckney; and two women, Cynthia Hurd and Sharonda
          Coleman-Singleton.
     ·    The suspect was identified as 21-year-old Columbia, South Carolina
          resident Dylann Roof. Roof is now in custody, after a North Carolinian
          alerted the police to "suspicious activity". Roof was peacefully
          captured.
     ·    Barack Obamasaid he felt both sadness and anger at the shootings and
          said America must come to grips with its record on gun violence.
     ·    The shooting is being investigated as a hate crime. " There is
          absolutely no doubt in my mind that it is hate crime," police chief
          Greg Mullen told a news conference without elaborating. The Department
          of Justice has launched a federal civil rights investigation into the
          shooting.
     ·    Three people survived the attack, police said. There are unconfirmed
          reports that the suspect allowed one of the survivors to leave the
          church so she could report what happened. The police are continuing to
          interview survivors.


block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.47pm ET

block-time published-time 1.20pm ET

Four victims identified: what we know so far

Dr Lady June Cole, the president of Allen University in Columbia, South
Carolina. has issued a statement confirming that two of its alumni were killed
in Wednesday night's shooting:

1. Tywanza Sanders, a 2014 graduate of the Division of Business Administration.


     ·    "He was a quiet, well known student who was committed to his
          education. He presented a warm and helpful spirit as he interacted
          with his colleagues. Mr. Sanders was participating in the Bible Study
          session at Mother Emanuel church at the time of the shooting."


2. Senator Clementa Pinckney, 41, pastor of Mother Emmanuel AME church


     ·    "Senator Pinckney was a brilliant young pastor and leader who always
          possessed an empowering and healing message. Most recently, he was
          Allen University's 2015 Founders' Day speaker. The death of Senator
          Pinckney is a significant loss for the State of South Carolina and the
          African Methodist Episcopal church. He has impacted the lives of those
          in his congregation as well as members of the South Carolina
          Legislature and beyond.


Two other victims have also been identified:

3. Cynthia Hurd: Charleston County Public Library has confirmed that its manager
was also killed in the Mother Emmanuel Church shooting, according to WCBD, an
NBC affiliate in Charleston.

4. Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, the mother of Chris Singleton, a rising sophomore
at Charleston Southern University and a member of the college's baseball team,
CSU said in a statement:


     ·    "Chris's mother was just that parent that as a coach you are proud to
          have as part of your program. What she brought to our team is
          immeasurable," said head coach Stuart Lake.


block-time published-time 12.50pm ET

Obama: Mother Emmanuel Church 'is a sacred place' for Charleston and America

In a statement to reporters on Thursday, the president expressed both sadness
and anger at the shootings which killed nine overnight. But he also said that
the country needed to come to grips with its continuing record of gun violence:

"I've had to make statements like this too many times. Communities like this
have had to endure tragedies like this too many times.

"We don't have all the facts, but we do know that once again, innocent people
were killed in part because someone who wanted to inflict harm had no trouble
getting their hand on a gun."

"Now is the time for mourning and for healing. But let's be clear. At some
point, we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type of mass
violence does not happen in other advanced countries. It doesn't happen in other
places with this kind of frequency.

According to some reporters, this is the 14th time Obama has had to make a
statement on a shooting incident.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.56pm ET

block-time published-time 12.29pm ET

Obama said the fact that the incident happened in a black church recalls a dark
chapter of American history.

Mother Emmanuel Church has risen before to give hopes to generations of
Charlestonians and will rise again, Obama said, as a place of peace.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.36pm ET

block-time published-time 12.25pm ET

At some point it's going to be important for the American people to come to
terms with this and to "shift how we think about the issue of gun violence" in
this country, Obama said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.30pm ET

block-time published-time 12.25pm ET

Obama said he doesn't need to be constrained by the emotions that tragedies like
this bring up.

He said he has made countless statements like this because of repeated mass
shootings in the country.

"Now's the time for mourning but, let's be clear, at some point we as a country
will have to reconcile the fact that these types of mass violence don't happen
in other advanced countries, with this type of frequency," he said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.32pm ET

block-time published-time 12.23pm ET

The president said he knew several people in the church community, including
Clementa Pinckney.

There is something particularly heartbreaking about death happening in a place
in which we seek solace, and peace, in a place of worship, Obama said.

Mother Emmanuel is more than a church, Obama said, recalling its importance in
history of the civil rights movement.

This is a sacred place in the history of Charleston and in the history of
America.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.27pm ET

block-time published-time 12.21pm ET

Barack Obama is now speaking about the Charleston shooting.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.22pm ET

block-time published-time 12.10pm ET

Barack Obama will be speaking about the tragedy shortly. You can watch his
statement live below.

block-time published-time 12.00pm ET

Mullen gave some details on the arrest, but would not elaborate further:


     ·    Roof was in the car when he was apprehended
     ·    Roof was cooperative towards the Shelby PD officer who stopped him
     ·    There's no reason to believe he wasn't acting alone


block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.05pm ET

block-time published-time 11.56am ET

Mullen said the suspect was stopped because a citizen alerted law enforcement to
"suspicious activity".

block-time published-time 11.55am ET

The outpouring of emotion from this country has been overwhelming.

"We allow ourselves to grieve, we allow ourselves to pray, we allow ourselves to
question and then we allow ourselves to heal."

block-time published-time 11.53am ET

Haley said, her voice breaking: "We woke up today and the heart and soul of
South Carolina was broken."

block-time published-time 11.52am ET

Governor Nikki Haley is now speaking.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.56am ET

block-time published-time 11.51am ET

"In America, we don't let bad people like this get away with these dastardly
deeds," Riley said.

block-time published-time 11.50am ET

Riley announced the creation of a Mother Emmanuel Hope Fund for those interested
in donating to help the community in the wake of the shooting

block-time published-time 11.49am ET

Riley said that both vice-president Joe Biden and president Barack Obama called
him to offer support. Obama said that he would make all federal resources
available for the investigation.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.51am ET

block-time published-time 11.48am ET

Riley said that the "awful person", that "terrible human being" who would go
into a place of worship where people were praying and kill them, "is now in
custody where he will always remain."

The arrest of this man, he said, "[is] important for everyone wounded by this
act, which of the church family members, community members and people of
America."

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.49am ET

block-time published-time 11.45am ET

Mayor Joe Riley is now speaking.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.47am ET

block-time published-time 11.45am ET

Mullen has said the cooperation between all law enforcement divisions has been
"unparalleled". The investigation is ongoing he said. "The solicitor's office
and the Attorney General's office has been in contact all day and last night,
and they are prepared to partner with us in the prosecution stage."

block-time published-time 11.43am ET

Suspect Dylann Roof arrested in Shelby North Carolina

Charleston police chief Greg Mullen has confirmed the arrest of the suspect at a
press conference.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.48am ET

block-time published-time 11.39am ET

US attorney general Loretta Lynch has confirmed that there is 'a suspect' in
custody.

enltrBREAKING: Attorney General Lynch: `I can confirm that there is a suspect in
custody' in church shooting.

- The Associated Press (@AP) June 18, 2015

The FBI has also confirmed a suspect is in custody:

enltrSubject arrested in #Charleston shooting. Our sincere thanks to the public
and our law enforcement partners.

- FBI (@FBI) June 18, 2015

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.48am ET

block-time published-time 11.35am ET

The Morris Brown Church in Charleston is already filling up ahead of the noon
prayer vigil:

enltrMorris Brown AME filling up ahead of noon service. 11:30 presser live on
http://t.co/J7FeZpnNo2#chsnewspic.twitter.com/wbNA9jmSsh

- CS Tyson (@SamInteractive) June 18, 2015

Police are stationed at the church and checking people's bags, according to a
Post & Courier reporter:

enltrPolice are checking bags of people entering Morris Brown AME.
#chs#CHSShootingpic.twitter.com/VorqJvyxOd

- brenda rindge (@brindge) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 11.27am ET

Local media are reporting that the suspect has been arrested in Shelby, North
Carolina, but this has not yet been confirmed.

Charleston PD said they will be holding a press conference in 10 minutes.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.29am ET

block-time published-time 11.20am ET

Tributes to slain Democratic state senator Clementa Pinckney have been pouring
in from his fellow state senators:

enltrJust received a call from President Obama. He conveyed his condolences to
Sen Pinckney's family, congregation, & the people of Charleston.

- Todd Rutherford (@RepRutherford) June 18, 2015

enltrA memorial on my seat mate's State Senate desk, Clementa Pinckney. RIP my
friend. #EmmanuelAMEpic.twitter.com/mTyipyQfNL

- Vincent Sheheen (@vincentsheheen) June 18, 2015

enltrSaddest Day ever in the SC Senate. Rest in Peace Senator. You were a role
model to many and loved by all. We will miss you!

- Katrina Shealy (@KatrinaShealy) June 18, 2015

Pinckney's death has also been felt across all levels of government, writes my
colleague Sam Thielman :

"We need to put today's meeting in context with a tragedy that happened last
night in Charleston, SC," said Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman
Tom Wheeler. "To many of us, that is a news item; to one of us, it is very
personal. If it were not for this, meeting Commissioner Clyburn would be in
Charleston today, mourning with her community."

FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn, her voice breaking, thanked Wheeler and offered
a tearful tribute to Pinckney, who, she said, "is part of the reason I'm sitting
here before you today" because of his support in her early career.

"It is an emotional day for anybody who was born in Charleston", she said. "Or
anybody who has a heart. I met Clementa Pinckney when he was a representative,
and I was running for the [Public Service Commission]. I needed 50% plus one.
Those of you who know me know that I can have a little bit of an aggressive
demeanor. I asked and he was a little bit coy, and I asked again, and I could
tell I was irritating him quite a bit. But in the end, he voted for me.

"I apologize to you for the cracking in my voice. I apologize to you for the
emotion I am displaying before you today. You think you have a handle on all
that the world has for you and then something like this happens. Clementa and
his sister deserved so much better. I hope we will be able to be beacons of
light for our community in the way of that church, joined in weekly prayer."

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.23am ET

block-time published-time 11.16am ET

The White House has said that President Obama will make a statement on the South
Carolina mass shooting around 11.45am.

block-time published-time 11.15am ET

US Attorney General Loretta Lynch briefly addressed the Charleston shooting this
morning:

"Acts like this one have no place in our country and no place in a civilized
society," Lynch said before extending her thoughts and prayers to families of
victims.

Lynch encouraged local law enforcement to continue circulating the photos of the
suspect, who she did not name, and encouraged citizens to report any tips to the
FBI tip line.

block-time published-time 11.03am ET

In an interview with Reuters, Roof's uncle Carson Cowles said his "introverted"
nephew was given a gun by his father as a 21st birthday present in April:

Cowles said he recognized Roof in a photo released by police, and described him
as quiet and soft-spoken. Roof's father gave him a.45-caliber pistol for his
birthday this year, Cowles said.

"Nobody in my family had seen anything like this coming," Cowles said. "I said,
if it is him, and when they catch him, he's got to pay for this."

He said he had told his sister, Roof's mother, several years ago that Roof was
too introverted.

"I said he was like 19 years old, he still didn't have a job, a driver's license
or anything like that and he just stayed in his room a lot of the time," Cowles
said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.03am ET

block-time published-time 10.56am ET

A photograph from a Facebook profile page believed to belong to the suspect
shows him wearing a jacket with two flags on the front: one is Rhodesia's (now
Zimbabwe) and the other is Apartheid-era South Africa's.

(via my colleague Enjoli Liston )

Dylann Roof, the possible suspect in shooting at Emanuel Church, Charleston
Photograph: Facebook

block-time published-time 10.55am ET

Charleston PD confirms Dylann Roof is church shooting suspect

The suspect is not yet in custody, the Charleston PD have told the Guardian.

The Lexington County Solicitor's office has also confirmed that Roof was
arrested on 2 March for possession of a controlled substance.

block-time published-time 10.24am ET

Suspect reportedly identified

The suspect in the shooting has been identified as 21-year-old Dylann Roof of
Columbia, South Carolina by Lexington PD and Berkeley County. The FBI has
confirmed to Reuters that Roof is the suspect.

Reuters is also reporting that the suspect's uncle recognized his nephew from
the photo released. "The more I look at him, the more I'm convinced, that's
him," said Carson Cowles, 56, in a phone interview.

However, a spokesman for the Charleston PD has said that a suspect has been
identified but has not been confirmed. A spokeswoman for Charleston County said
the suspect would be identified by the police department on Twitter imminently.

enltrSuspect in #Charleston shooting identified as 21 yr old Dylann Roof. If you
know his whereabouts, call 1-800-CALL-FBI pic.twitter.com/EmFL5gLMCL

- Berkeley County SC (@BerkeleySCGov) June 18, 2015

enltrIt is confirmed through open source reports that the subject Dylann Storm
Roof is from Lexington County. Call... http://t.co/7QEstJ1lsk

- Lexington SC Police (@LexingtonPD) June 18, 2015

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.24am ET

block-time published-time 10.00am ET

A DoJ spokesperson confirmed to the Guardian that a federal investigation is
under way:

"The Justice Department's Civil Rights Division, the FBI, and the US Attorney's
Office for the District of South Carolina are opening a hate crime investigation
into the shooting that took place at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, SC. The
investigation is parallel to and cooperative with the state's investigation."

block-time published-time 9.57am ET

Information about the alleged suspect is circulating on social media. We will
not be publishing unconfirmed details on the suspect's identity.

block-time published-time 9.49am ET

Deanna Pan of the Charleston Post & Courier points out that with nine dead, this
would be the deadliest mass shooting at a house of worship in the US since 1982
( per Mother Jones' data on mass shootings ).

In 2012, a shooting at a Sikh Temple in Wisconsin killed seven people and
injured three.

block-time published-time 9.41am ET

South Carolina House Minority Leader Todd Rutherford on his longtime friend
Clementa Pinckney who was killed during the shooting:

enltrSenator Pinckney was my friend for over 20 years. I'm speechless,
heartbroken and angry. God grant his family some peace right now.

- Todd Rutherford (@RepRutherford) June 18, 2015

block-time published-time 9.34am ET

Rev Al Sharpton - who will reportedly be leading a prayer vigil for at noon in
Charleston - has expressed "shock and outrage" at the killings, in a statement
issued through his National Action Network ( full text ):

What has our society come to when people in a prayer meeting in the sacred halls
of a church can be shot in what is deemed a possible hate crime?

The Pastor of the church, Reverend Clementa Pinckney, worked closely with our
National Action Network Chapter leader and our Vice President of Religious
Affairs, Rev. Nelson Rivers. It is chilling to me that just over two months ago
while I was in North Charleston over the police shooting of Walter Scott, I'm
reminded that Rev. Pinckney was among the clergy who stood with me at that
occasion and now he has fallen victim to senseless violence.

We must do what we can to apprehend the killer and we must support the families
involved in this tragedy. Demagoguery, increasing tension, and talk of violence
will only make a mockery of what we face."

block-time published-time 9.21am ET

Summary

Hello. Here's an updated summary of what we know so far:


     ·    Six women and three men were killed when a white suspect opened fired
          in the historic black church of Emanuel AME church in Charleston,
          South Carolina.
     ·    Police are still hunting for a suspect, described as a "highly
          dangerous" white male, aged between 21 and 25. They have released CCTV
          images of the suspect and his car. The suspect was in the church for
          about hour before opening fire
     ·    The shooting is being investigated as a hate crime. " There is
          absolutely no doubt in my mind that it is hate crime," Police Chief
          Greg Mullen told a news conference without elaborating.
     ·    The DoJ has launched a federal civil rights investigation into the
          shooting
     ·    One of those killed has been named as Clementa Pinckney, Emanuel
          church's pastor and a Democratic member of the South Carolina Senate.
          He had campaigned for police to wear body cameras. The police said
          they did not know if anyone was specifically targeted in the killing
     ·    Eight people were dead when police arrived on the scene, following an
          emergency call on Wednesday evening just after 9pm local time. A ninth
          person died later in hospital.
     ·    Three people survived the attack, police said. There are unconfirmed
          reports that the suspect allowed one of the survivors to leave the
          church so she could report what happened. The police are continuing to
          interview survivors.
     ·    Questions are being asked about racial tensions in the state, where
          Walter Scott, a black man, was shot dead by a police officer in April,
          and the confederate flag still flies in the grounds of the state
          building. The NAACP said it was outraged at what it described as a
          senseless and cowardly killing


For earlier updates, here is our previous live blog, now closed.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.58am ET

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 20, 2015 Saturday 10:30 PM GMT

Trevor Bayliss takes over as England coach backed as the cool head under
pressure... after surviving a terror attack, he'll never get carried away by
just a game of cricket

BYLINE: CHRIS STOCKS FOR THE MAIL ON SUNDAY

SECTION: CRICKET

LENGTH: 944 words



     ·    Trevor Bayliss takes over as England coach this week, starting with a
          four-day training camp in Spain and then the Ashes in less than a
          fortnight
     ·    He has regularly had to deal with pressure, firstly as Sri Lanka coach


     ·    In 2009, he was a survivor of the terror attack in Lahore, Pakistan
     ·    He was then the coach of New South Wales when Phillip Hughes died
     ·    Bayliss is the cool head England desperately need going forward


It is March 3 2009 at Liberty Square roundabout in Lahore, just 500 metres from
Pakistan's Gaddafi Stadium and, as gunfire rains down on the Sri Lanka team bus,
Trevor Bayliss crouches under the window by his seat three rows back.

He grabs the backpack that contains his laptop and props it up against the wall
as protection. He can hear the sound of bullets piercing the side of the
vehicle, then a rocket-propelled grenade whistling past and detonating against a
lamppost just feet away.

When the assault is finally over 20 terrifying minutes later, Bayliss, the Sri
Lanka coach, looks up and sees three bullet holes in the window that would have
hit him in the head and chest. Eight people are dead and seven of the Sri Lankan
party are injured, including the Australian's assistant coach Paul Farbrace.

Bayliss is lucky to be alive. No matter what is thrown at him once he starts his
new life as England coach on Thursday, the 52-year-old will bring a unique sense
of perspective to the job.

Farbrace, who is currently the England stand-in coach and will be Bayliss's No 2
once again, says of that terrible day in Lahore: 'We each had our back against
the window and we were talking to each other about how we wanted the guys to
bowl that morning.

'Then I got thrown off my seat by a grenade going off. But on the other side of
the aisle, Trevor had a phenomenal, frightening escape. For both of us, our main
thoughts have always been for the people who lost their lives going to a cricket
match. It's very easy to get things out of perspective and get carried away by a
game of cricket. In the bigger picture, that's all it is.'

Sri Lanka's captain at the time, Mahela Jayawardene, praised the way Bayliss
handled himself in the aftermath of it all, reassuring the players and ensuring
the team would not leave the safety of the stadium until they were airlifted out
by Pakistani military helicopters. 'He was fantastic,' said Jayawardene. 'He
didn't overreact too much. It is good to have that calmness in a difficult time
like that. The way he reacted shows he's a very fine person.'

Afterwards, the coach had strong words for those at the Sri Lankan Cricket Board
who had signed off on the security arrangements.

Jayawardene, who sustained shrapnel wounds to his shoulder, said: 'He was
disappointed before the tour that we were put in that situation and after the
incident he was disappointed as well with the administration.'

Fast forward five years and the Australian was again thrust into the midst of
tragedy when a bouncer felled Phillip Hughes, batting for South Australia during
a Sheffield Shield game against Bayliss's New South Wales team. Hughes died in
hospital two days later. He was 25.

Phil Jaques, who was Bayliss's assistant coach, says: 'Trevor was impressive
throughout. Everyone reacted differently and he let people deal with things in
their own time. His calming influence was a real help.

'We had to get back at some point and play, we had to bowl bouncers and his
attitude was "let's get through the season" and we did.'

Geoff Lawson, who played with Bayliss at New South Wales during the 1980s and
was latterly his bowling coach at the club, added: 'No one had ever dealt with
that situation, there was no precedent, no template. Trevor just dealt with the
players in a very common sense manner and managed everyone individually.

'That's just what that situation needed with a lot of young guys who were very
much affected by it. It's hard to describe how difficult that time was.'

That clear thinking and calmness under pressure will stand Bayliss in good stead
for the challenges ahead with England. He starts with a four-day training camp
in Spain from Saturday and has less than a fortnight to get to know his players
and prepare them for the first Ashes Test in Cardiff on July 8.

Jaques, part of the team that won the Sheffield Shield in Bayliss' first season
as New South Wales coach in 2004-05, says: 'He won't come in and turn things
upside down from day one.

'He'll take his time, observe and see what needs changing gradually. He won't be
worried his first series is the Ashes.'

Bayliss, Jaques says, has little time for small talk and does not enjoy dealing
with the media. Yet, unlike his predecessor Peter Moores, he is effective in
getting his message across to the players.

'Trevor's a good communicator and very straightforward in how he speaks,' says
Lawson. 'He likes to have conversations with players and makes them feel they're
very much part of the decision making. He likes to stay in the background and
wants players to drive the game.'

Jayawardene speaks of Bayliss as a man who 'lets the captain run the team'. To
that extent his relationship with Alastair Cook, England's Test captain, will be
crucial.

Ryan ten Doeschate, who has been a team-mate of Cook's at Essex for 12 years and
has played under Bayliss at Kolkata Knight Riders, believes the pair will work
well together. 'They share similar values and are both mad about the game,' he
says. 'I can see them forging a very good relationship.'

As for Bayliss's overall role with England, Lawson says: 'I think this is
probably his biggest challenge.'

Yet if history tells us anything, it is that he is more than capable of meeting
that challenge head on.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              June 21, 2015 Sunday

AFTER SURVIVING TERROR ATTACK, HE'LL NEVER GET CARRIED AWAY

LENGTH: 905 words


JUST A GAME OF CRICKET...

Aussie Trevor Bayliss takes over as England coach this week backed as the cool
head under pressure they so desperately need

BY CHRIS STOCKS

IT is March 3 2009 at Liberty Square roundabout in Lahore, just 500 metres from
Pakistan's Gaddafi Stadium and, as gunfire rains down on the Sri Lanka team bus,
Trevor Bayliss crouches under the window by his seat three rows back.

He grabs the backpack that contains his laptop and props it up against the wall
as protection. He can hear the sound of bullets piercing the side of the
vehicle, then a rocket-propelled grenade whistling past and detonating against a
lamppost just feet away.

When the assault is finally over 20 terrifying minutes later, Bayliss, the Sri
Lanka coach, looks up and sees three bullet holes in the window that would have
hit him in the head and chest. Eight people are dead and seven of the Sri Lankan
party are injured, including the Australian's assistant coach Paul Farbrace.

Bayliss is lucky to be alive. No matter what is thrown at him once he starts his
new life as England coach on Thursday, the 52-year-old will bring a unique sense
of perspective to the job.

Farbrace, who is currently the England stand-in coach and will be Bayliss's No 2
once again, says of that terrible day in Lahore: We each had our back against
the window and we were talking to each other about how we wanted the guys to
bowl that morning.

Then I got thrown off my seat by a grenade going off. But on the other side of
the aisle, Trevor had a phenomenal, frightening escape. For both of us, our main
thoughts have always been for the people who lost their lives going to a cricket
match. It's very easy to get things out of perspective and get carried away by a
game of cricket. In the bigger picture, that's all it is.'

Sri Lanka's captain at the time, Mahela Jayawardene, praised the way Bayliss
handled himself in the aftermath of it all, reassuring the players and ensuring
the team would not leave the safety of the stadium until they were airlifted out
by Pakistani military helicopters. He was fantastic,' said Jayawardene. He
didn't overreact too much. It is good to have that calmness in a difficult time
like that. The way he reacted shows he's a very fine person.'

Afterwards, the coach had strong words for those at the Sri Lankan Cricket Board
who had signed off on the security arrangements.

Jayawardene (below, with Bayliss), who sustained shrapnel wounds to his
shoulder, said: He was disappointed before the tour that we were put in that
situation and after the incident he was disappointed as well with the
administration.'

Fast forward five years and the Australian was again thrust into the midst of
tragedy when a bouncer felled Phillip Hughes, batting for South Australia during
a Sheffield Shield game against Bayliss's New South Wales team. Hughes died in
hospital two days later. He was 25.

Phil Jaques, who was Bayliss's assistant coach, says: Trevor was impressive
throughout. Everyone reacted differently and he let people deal with things in
their own time. His calming influence was a real help.

We had to get back at some point and play, we had to bowl bouncers and his
attitude was let's get through the season and we did.'

Geoff Lawson, who played with Bayliss at New South Wales during the 1980s and
was latterly his bowling coach at the club, added: No one had ever dealt with
that situation, there was no precedent, no template. Trevor just dealt with the
players in a very common sense manner and managed everyone individually.

That's just what that situation needed with a lot of young guys who were very
much affected by it. It's hard to describe how difficult that time was.'

That clear thinking and calmness under pressure will stand Bayliss in good stead
for the challenges ahead with England. He starts with a four-day training camp
in Spain from Saturday and has less than a fortnight to get to know his players
and prepare them for the first Ashes Test in Cardiff on July 8. Jaques, part of
the team that won the Sheffield Shield in Bayliss' first season as New South
Wales coach in 2004-05, says: He won't come in and turn things upside down from
day one. He'll take his time, observe and see what needs changing gradually. He
won't be worried his first series is the Ashes.'

Bayliss, Jaques says, has little time for small talk and does not enjoy dealing
with the media. Yet, unlike his predecessor Peter Moores, he is effective in
getting his message across to the players.

Trevor's a good communicator and very straightforward in how he speaks,' says
Lawson. He likes to have conversations with players and makes them feel they're
very much part of the decision making. He likes to stay in the background and
wants players to drive the game.'

Jayawardene speaks of Bayliss as a man who lets the captain run the team'. To
that extent his relationship with Alastair Cook, England's Test captain, will be
crucial.

Ryan ten Doeschate, who has been a team-mate of Cook's at Essex for 12 years and
has played under Bayliss at Kolkata Knight Riders, believes the pair will work
well together. They share similar values and are both mad about the game,' he
says. I can see them forging a very good relationship.'

As for Bayliss's overall role with England, Lawson says: I think this is
probably his biggest challenge.'

Yet if history tells us anything, it is that he is more than capable of meeting
that challenge head on.

© Mail On Sunday

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 22, 2015 Monday

Israel's Hebrew press sounds warning over growing "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 841 words


The following is a selection of quotes from the Israeli press on 22 June:

Michael Oren

Former Israeli ambassador to Washington Michael Oren has launched his new book
which is critical of President Obama

"Two articles [Michael] Oren published in recent days made waves: One, in the
Wall Street Journal, accuses President Obama of intentional, malicious
abandoning of Israel; the second, in Foreign Affairs, depicts Obama as
emotionally captive of Islam... Oren is today a Knesset member in the Kulanu
faction. The things he wrote were too exceptional in their style, so blunt that
his party leader, Moshe Kahlon, saw the need to apologize for them in a letter
to the US ambassador. For some reason, the Americans also expected an apology
from Netanyahu. Netanyahu refused: If he begins to apologize for a superfluous
statement by every Knesset member in his coalition, he will have no time for
superfluous statements of his own... The claim that all Netanyahu's mistakes
stem from innocence and all Obama's mistakes stem from malice are not compatible
with the facts. Oren is supposed to know the facts..." [From commentary by Nahum
Barnea in centrist, mass circulation Yediot Aharonot]

"Terrorist attacks"

Two Israelis have been killed in attacks recent days: A man was shot dead near
the West Bank settlement of Dolev on 19 June while a border policeman was
stabbed in Jerusalem on 21 June. Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu has termed
the West Bank shooting a terrorist attack

"Former GOC Central Command Gad Shamni said in an interview with [army radio]
Gali Tzahal that it is not safe to journey around Judea and Samaria; a statement
that ignores the reality in which also in Jerusalem, the north and Tel Aviv
dangers lurk... Palestinian terrorism and its political leadership have one very
clear objective: Liquidate the Zionist entity... Israel's citizens expect the
IDF and the security forces to quickly do what is required to stop what seems to
be a new wave of terror. A terrorist attack that succeeds encourages terrorists
to carry out more terrorist attacks... The vile terrorists want to kill Jews,
embitter the life of the citizens of the country and win prestige in their
violent society... The strongest response to terror is strengthening our hold on
the homeland. Only settlement everywhere will make clear that by force they will
achieve nothing..." [From commentary by Haim Shain in free, pro-Netanyahu
Yisrael Hayom]

"The growing terrorist attacks initiatives of recent days bring to the surface
what the Israeli government wants to forget: the relative calm in the Gaza Strip
sector does not symbolize calm or stability; therefore, it does not absolve it
of the responsibility to find solutions not only for Gaza's plight, but also for
the simmering unrest in the West Bank and Jerusalem... A few hours before his
meeting with French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius yesterday, Prime Minister
Binyamin Netanyahu sharply attacked the French initiative to promote a
resolution in the UN Security Council on the Israeli-Palestinian issue.
Netanyahu called Fabius initiative 'diktat' and argued that it would harm
Israel, because it does not take into account its security interests. But while
Netanyahu is critical of others, he hasn't offered any diplomatic initiative of
his own... Without diplomatic horizon or Israeli readiness to draw such horizon,
the sequence of terrorist attacks is liable to escalate and turn into a bloody
battle of the kind Israelis and Palestinians experienced just last summer..."
[From editorial of left-of-centre, independent broadsheet Ha'aretz]

US foreign policy

Israeli Infrastructure and EnergyMinister Yuval Steinitz on 20 June said the
latest US State Department report detailing Iran's continued sponsorship of
international terrorism proves that Tehran cannot be trusted to curb its nuclear
programme

"Like a cacophonous orchestra or a badly coordinated sports team, US foreign
policy-makers seem to be working at cross purposes vis-a-vis Tehran's nuclear
weapons programme. On the one hand, the Obama administration appears to be bent
on cutting a deal with the Iranians even if it is bad... On the other hand, the
US State Department acknowledges that Tehran continues to support terrorism
around the world. Could it be there is a connection between Iran's continued
aggression and the US's conciliatory approach to Iran? After all, the Iranians
have no reason to believe that the Obama administration's assurance that 'all
options are on the table' is anything but an empty mantra... If anything, the
Iranians have learned from the very different fates of Libya and North Korea the
importance of obtaining nuclear weapons as quickly as possible... Harmony and
consistency must be brought to US foreign policy. This will only happen when
Congress insists that Iran stops supporting international terrorism and the
administration reassesses the merits of the nuclear arms agreement currently
being negotiated with Tehran..." [From editorial of in English-language
Jerusalem Post]

Sources: As listed

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       June 22, 2015 Monday 10:30 AM GMT

AIRLINE TERROR ALERT: Hackers attack european flights leaving passengers
stranded

BYLINE: Dave Snelling

LENGTH: 283 words


CYBER criminals hit airline's computer system grounding flights and leaving
1,400 passengers unable to fly.

Airlines are being warned of potential hacks that could bring flight chaos to
millions of passengers across the world.

Polish carrier LOT, was hit by a major cyber attack over the weekend which
grounded flights and left passengers stranded.

The airline confirmed the attacks, which lasted for five hours, and warned that
other airlines should be on alert.

LOT spokesman Adrian Kubicki said: "We're using state-of-the-art computer
systems, so this could potentially be a threat to others in the industry,"

During the attack, 10 of the state-owned carrier's national and international
flights were cancelled and about a dozen more delayed.

LOT said it was taking care of the passengers on Sunday evening and some were
already able to board flights.

The attack in now being investigated by the authorities although it has been
confirned that the airport itself was also not affected.

This latest attack comes as computer experts warn of a potential disaster in our
skies.

Cyber geek Ruben Santamarta, says he has worked out a way of accessing an
aircraft's onboard computer whilst in flight.

Then, using the planes Wi-Fi and entertainment system, he believes he could
disrupt many of the aircraft's vital instruments including navigation and
communication.

Speaking about the threat Mr Santamarta said: "In theory, a hacker could use a
plane's onboard WiFi signal or inflight entertainment system to hack into its
avionics equipment, potentially disrupting or modifying satellite
communications, which could interfere with the aircraft's navigation and safety
systems."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              June 22, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

jihadis 'enter europe disguised as refugees';
Terror experts fear IS bomb attacks

BYLINE: CHRIS HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 172 words


SCORES of Islamic State terrorists are believed to have smuggled their way into
Europe among the migrants fleeing North Africa.

And it is feared the IS bombers could launch an attack within months.

Experts think the extremists have posed as asylum seekers after travelling on
boats trafficking people from Africa to Italy.

A counter-terrorism source said: "It is widely believed that terrorists in
groups and individually have been able to stow themselves on trafficking vessels
and make the journey across the Mediterranean. Once in Europe they can go
through the asylum process or disappear off the radar of the authorities by
linking up with even more smuggling networks.

"This means they can penetrate deeper into Europe and avoid detection from the
police and security services. Nobody knows just how many there are."

With a further 500,000 desperate people gathering in war-torn Libya and
preparing to risk a hazardous journey to the Italian coast it is feared that
even more IS terrorists could be on their way.

c.hughes@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 22, 2015 Monday 9:32 AM GMT

Terrorists attack Afghanistan parliament - six Taliban gunmen killed

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 423 words


A TALIBAN suicide bomber and several gunmen have attacked the Afghanistan
parliament.

IG

The moment the first bomb struck

About 25 people have been wounded including five woman and three children in the
attack in Kabul.

A dramatic video shows the government about to welcome the new defence minister
inside a hall when the first explosion took place.

Chilling screams fill the room from those inside, while dust falls from the
ceiling.

The first explosion was believed to be a car bomb parked by the parliament
entrace. There were up to seven further blasts.

Windows shattered from the force of the explosion, and government officials then
fled the building.

Six other insurgents with machine guns took hold of neighbouring buildings and
tried to fire shots from there.

REUTERS

A vehicle is seen on fire after a blast near the Afghan parliament in Kabul,
Afghanistan

EPA

Afghan police officers secure the scene

AP

The first explosion was a suicide bomb in a car

Afghan police and the army have scrambled to try and control the area.

It is the second district in the country which has fallen to the Islamist group
in just two days. Districts Kunduz and Dasht-e-Archi have now been taken over.

The Taliban had been surrounding the city for days, government officials said.

Violence has spiralled in Afghanistan since foreign forces left the country at
the end of last year.

Insurgents are pushing to take territory more than 13 years after the
American-led military intervention toppled the Taliban from power.

AP

The army and police scrambled to the scene and shot dead six gunmen

NAQIBULLAH FAIQ

Pictures from inside parliament show rooms filled with dust

NAQIBULLAH FAIQ

No MPs were injured

Ebadullah Karimi, a spokesman for Kabul police, said: "A suicide bomber blew
himself up just outside the parliament building and several fighters took
positions in a building close to parliament.

Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid claimed responsibility and said: "We have
launched an attack on parliament as there was an important gathering to
introduce the country's defence minister."

Kabul police said they have shot dead six gunmen.

Related articles Mediterranean boats will bring 500,000 Islamic State terrorists
to Europe, blasts Farage Islamic State: British 'musketeers' appeal for public
funding to fight terrorists Taliban suicide bomb kills British security worker
at Afghanistan airport Taliban gunmen who shot Malala in face freed - just WEEKS
after getting 25-year sentences REVEALED: How ISIS sisters used British benefits
to pay for trip to join terrorists

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        June 22, 2015 Monday 4:00 AM GMT

Hezbollah's 'external security' branch remains listed by Australia as terrorist
group;
Asio says Lebanese group's external security organisation still plans,
coordinates and executes terrorism attacks

BYLINE: Michael Safi

SECTION: AUSTRALIA NEWS

LENGTH: 325 words


Hezbollah's secretive "external security" branch will remain listed as a
terrorist organisation in Australia after security agency advice that the group
is still involved in the "planning, coordination and execution of terrorist
attacks".

The parliamentary joint committee on intelligence and security regularly reviews
the organisations on the list, which Hezbollah's external security organisation
(ESO) joined in 2003.

ESO operatives have been accused of several terrorist attacks against Jewish and
Israeli targets, including the 1994 bombing of an Argentinian-Israeli mutual
association in Buenos Aires that killed 85.

Three years ago it was accused of blowing up an Israeli tourist bus in Burgas,
Bulgaria, killing six. An Australian was among the Hezbollah agents suspected of
involvement.

Unclassified advice from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation
(Asio) found there was "no indication" the branch's activities had changed since
the last review in 2012.

Its founder, Imad Mughniyeh, was killed by a car bomb in Damascus in 2008, an
attack widely attributed to the Israeli secret service.

Hezbollah, formed with Iranian support in southern Lebanon in 1982 after an
Israeli invasion, has deep roots in Lebanese society and active political and
social service branches.

Asio said the ESO was "very distinct" from these other branches, and given the
"degree of legitimacy" Hezbollah enjoyed in Lebanon, it was important not to
proscribe the entire organisation.

Hezbollah's place in western strategic calculations has been complicated more
recently by its role fighting Islamic State in Syria.

An annual US security report in March excluded Hezbollah and Iran from a list of
terrorism threats to US interests for the first time in years. This was seen as
a sop to their cooperation against Isis and a sign of warming relations between
Washington and Tehran.

However, both the US and Britain continue to list the ESO as a terrorist
organisation.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 22, 2015 Monday 4:00 PM GMT

Passenger jet terror attack fears after hackers access flight plan computers and
force planes to be grounded at Polish airport

BYLINE: JACK CRONE FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 545 words



     ·    LOT airline saw its systems broken into yesterday in 'first attack of
          its kind'
     ·    Around 1,400 passengers grounded at Warsaw airport after cyber-attack
     ·    Specialists took five hours to fix problem causing 10 flights to be
          cancelled
     ·    The airline's spokesman said it 'could be a threat to others in the
          industry'


A cyber-attack against a Polish airline caused around 1,400 passengers to be
grounded yesterday after hackers accessed the company's computer system used to
issue flight plans.

Polish airline LOT saw their systems broken into at about 4pm local time and it
took specialists around five hours to find a solution to the problem.

The state-owned company was forced to cancel ten national and international
flights while more than a dozen were delayed at Warsaw's Frederic Chopin
Airport.

Scroll down for video

LOT spokesman Adrian Kubicki described the incident as the 'first attack of its
kind' in an interview with TVN 24 television.

He added: 'We're using state-of-the-art computer systems, so this could
potentially be a threat to others in the industry.'

LOT provided seats on other flights for some passengers, and offered
accommodation for those who were forced to stay overnight.

Flights to Dusseldorf, Hamburg and Copenhagen and Polish cities were affected,
although LOT stressed that the glitch did not affect the airport or aeroplanes
that were already in the air.

The passengers' lives were not in danger at any point, and the airport itself
was not affected, Mr Kubicki insisted.

The airport itself was not affected, its spokesman said, and the source of the
hack is not yet known.

Poland's security agencies were investigating the attack with international
software security group Kaspersky Lab.

David Emm, principal security researcher at Kaspersky said: 'At the moment we
have no idea how the attack on Polish airline LOT was launched, the nature of
the systems targeted or what the motives of the attackers may have been, beyond
the fact that the attack affected ancillary systems rather than the planes
themselves.

'This story highlights the fact that, as more and more aspects of our lives
become cyber-dependent, we offer a greater attack surface to cybercriminals -
including critical infrastructure systems. It also follows on from recent
concerns about possible threats to aeroplane security from Wi-Fi.

'It's essential that all organisations pay close attention to security,
assessing the potential risks and deploying defence in-depth to reduce the
risks.'

Concerns around aviation and hacking are on the rise - particularly since many
airlines now operate with online systems.

It's feared cyber-terrorists have the potential to take control of planes
remotely.

In December 2014 the International Civil Aviation Organization called
cyber-crime a serious threat to safety in the skies.

They vowed to step up the 'security culture' protecting travellers against
terror attacks.

In April, a US report warned that hackers could exploit in-flight entertainment
systems to fatally sabotage cockpit electronics.

The report by an investigative arm of the US Congress came just weeks after a
co-pilot crashed his Germanwings A320 into the French Alps - murdering all 150
people on board and sparking debate about whether airliners should be completely
automated one day.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            South Wales Evening Post

                              June 22, 2015 Monday

have-a-go hero and family in knife attack terror

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 82  words


A DAD with his wife at the wheel, and two young children strapped in the back of
a car, set off in pursuit of a bag snatcher - only to be confronted with a
knife.

Community-spirited father Nathan Davies has been praised for his bravery by a
judge after the man appeared at Swansea Crown Court and was jailed.

The judge branded thief Joel John Thomas "a significant danger" to the public .

The court heard a two-inch gouge was made on the driver's side window during the
incident.

Full story: page 5

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 23, 2015 Tuesday

Commander - Iran Navy can deter terror, pirate attacks

LENGTH: 146 words


Excerpt of report in English by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News
Agency website

Tehran, 23 June: Navy Commander Rear Admiral Habibollah Sayyari underlined the
Iranian naval forces' power and readiness to confront any hostile move by
pirates or terrorists against Iran's interests across the globe.

"Today no threat can harm our country," Rear Admiral Sayyari said, addressing a
ceremony on Tuesday [23 June].

The Iranian commander, meantime, said enemies' threats are not limited to
military confrontation, rather "they are also trying to wage soft war against
Iran", and said: "As the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah
Seyyed Ali Khamene'i has said the goal of this soft war is finding control over
the brains of our people, specially the youth."

[Passage omitted: background]

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1615 gmt 23 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                       June 23, 2015 Tuesday 9:03 PM GMT

London 'now better equipped to deal with terror attack than at time of 7/7
bombings'

BYLINE: Robin de Peyer

SECTION: LONDON

LENGTH: 397 words


London is now in a better position to deal with a terrorist attack than it was
when terrorists struck in the capital 10 years ago, a fire chief has said.

London Fire Commissioner Ron Dobson, who worked on the day of the 7/7 bombings,
said improvements to radio communications, equipment and training had allowed
firefighters to act with more discretion when it was "necessary and
justifiable".

He spoke ahead of the 10th anniversary of the bombings on July 7, 2005 in which
52 people lost their lives, including Lee Baisden, who worked as a finance
officer with London Fire Brigade.

Mr Dobson, who was the bridage's gold commander on the day of the attacks, said:
"I'm incredibly proud of our firefighters and control room staff who dealt with
the traumatic incidents on the 7 July 2005. They went above and beyond the call
of duty.

"It wasn't just the first responders who showed strength and courage that day,
London as a city pulled together and over the years, lots of stories have
surfaced about members of the public helping the injured and distressed.

"I feel proud to say that the brigade is more equipped and prepared than ever to
deal with a major incident in the capital. The improvements we have made are a
testament to all of our staff who worked on that day and cements our reputation
as the best fire and rescue service in the world."

Following Lady Justice Hallett's recommendations at the inquests of the 7/7
victims in 2011, London Fire Brigade can now communicate from some of the Tube
network's deepest tunnels to officers on the ground.

Firefighters are given a personal hand-held radio with multiple radio channels
and a dedicated channel to share information and updates with each other
throughout an incident.

The Brigade has doubled the number of radios that can operate in potentially
explosive atmospheres.

After it emerged that there had been confusion between emergency services in the
aftermath of the 7/7 attacks, a national joint emergency services programme was
launched to help tackle major incidents.

Every fire engine in London is now equipped with enhanced first aid equipment,
including defibrillators, and all firefighters are now trained to deliver a
higher level of first aid.

A specialist team was also created in November 2005 to improve the Brigade's
response to incidents where chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear
materials are suspected.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 24, 2015 Wednesday

Egypt slams Somalia terrorist attack

LENGTH: 86 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 24 June: Egypt slammed on Wednesday [24 June] the terrorist attack that
hit the Somali capital of Mogadishu earlier in the day.

Spokesman for the Egyptian Foreign Ministry Badr Abd-al-Ati conveyed Egypt's
deepest condolences to the families of victims and wished the injured a speedy
recovery.

Abd-al-Ati called for international efforts to face terrorism and bring about
peace all over the world.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1304gmt 24 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      June 24, 2015 Wednesday 9:02 PM GMT

By scapegoating Muslims, Cameron fuels radicalisation;
Ministers foster terror with their wars. Now they attack liberties at home in
the name of British values

BYLINE: Seumas Milne

SECTION: COMMENT IS FREE

LENGTH: 1058 words


The anti-Muslim drumbeat has become deafening across the western world. As
images of atrocities by the jihadi terror group Isis multiply online, and a
steady trickle of young Europeans and North Americans head to Syria and Iraq to
join them, Muslim communities are under siege. Last week David Cameron accused
British Muslims of "quietly condoning" the ideology that drives Isis sectarian
brutality, normalising hatred of "British values", and blaming the authorities
for the "radicalisation" of those who go to fight for it.

It was too much for Sayeeda Warsi, the former Conservative party chair, who
condemned the prime minister's "misguided emphasis" on "Muslim community
complicity". He risked "further alienating" the large majority of Muslims
fighting the influence of such groups, she warned. Even Charles Farr, the
hawkish counter-terrorism mandarin at the Home Office, balked. Perhaps fewer
than 100 Britons were currently fighting with Isis, he said, and "we risk
labelling Muslim communities as somehow intrinsically extremist".

Related: Remember, prime minister: British Muslims hate Isis too | Sayeeda Warsi

But Cameron and his neoconservative allies are preparing the ground for the
government's next onslaught. The target will not be terrorism, but "non-violent
extremism". Next month, from nursery schools to optometrists, health services to
universities, all will be legally obliged to monitor students and patients for
any sign of "extremism" or "radicalisation".

The new powers represent a level of embedded security surveillance in public
life unprecedented in peacetime. We already know from the government's Prevent
programme the chilling impact of such mass spying on schools, where Muslim
pupils have been reported for speaking out in favour of Palestinian rights or
against the role of British troops in Afghanistan.

But the "counter-extremism" bill announced in the Queen's Speech is about to
take the anti-Muslim clampdown a whole stage further. The plans include banning
orders for non-violent individuals and organisations whose politics are
considered unacceptable; physical restriction orders for non-violent individuals
deemed "harmful"; powers to close mosques; and vetting controls on broadcasters
accused of airing extremist material. It's censorship under any other name.

That was the view of Sajid Javid, then culture secretary, in a leaked letter to
the prime minister earlier this year. But Cameron shows every sign of pressing
ahead with what amounts to a full-blown assault on basic liberties. Most
ludicrously, the new powers are defended in the name of "British values",
including "individual liberty" and "mutual respect and tolerance".

But as became clear in the aftermath of the murderous Paris attack on Charlie
Hebdo earlier this year, we are not all Charlie when it comes to freedom of
speech. Anti-extremism powers will be used overwhelmingly against Muslims,
rather than, say, non-Muslim homophobes and racists who have little interest in
mutual respect and tolerance.

Add in media hostility, Islamophobia and state surveillance of Muslim
communities, and alienation can only spread

And they will fail, as their earlier incarnations have done, to discourage the
small minority drawn to terrorism at home or jihadi campaigns abroad. Government
ministers claim such violence is driven by "ideology" rather than injustice,
grievance or its own policies. But, given that they refuse to speak to any
significant Muslim organisation they don't agree with or fund, perhaps it's not
surprising to find them in thrall to an ideology, neoconservatism, of their own.

Any other explanation for the terror threat would in any case implicate the
government and its predecessors. In reality, it shouldn't be so hard to
understand why a small section of young alienated Muslims are attracted to fight
in Syria and Iraq with Isis and other such groups. Jihadi "ideology" has been
around for a long time. But there were no terror attacks in Britain before US
and British forces invaded Afghanistan and Iraq, and those behind every violent
attack or terror plot have cited western intervention in the Muslim world as
their motivation.

Isis has a different appeal to al-Qaida. It has taken huge stretches of
territory using naked terror, destroyed borders and set up a self-proclaimed
caliphate. In the Middle East it presents itself as the defender of Sunnis in a
convulsive sectarian war. For a few young marginalised western Muslims, such
groups can offer the illusion of a fight against tyranny and a powerful sense of
identity.

But add in relentless media hostility, rampant Islamophobia, state surveillance
and harassment of Muslim communities, and such alienation can only spread. In
the past year, we've had the "Trojan Horse" Birmingham schools plot that never
was, the ousting of an elected Muslim mayor of Tower Hamlets by a judge -
including on grounds that he had exercised "undue spiritual influence" on
Muslims - and evidence of an increasing level of anti-Muslim attacks.
Islamophobia now far outstrips hostility to any other religion or ethnic group.

Ministers and their media allies downplay the role of "foreign policy" in Muslim
radicalisation, against all the evidence. By foreign policy, they mean multiple
western invasions and occupations of Muslim states, torture and state kidnapping
on a global scale, and support for dictatorships across the Arab and Muslim
world. That includes Saudi Arabia, of course, which shares much of Isis's
"ideology" and practices; and Egypt, whose ex-military leader, Abdel Fatah
al-Sisi, overthrew the elected president in 2013 and is soon to be welcomed to
Downing Street.

Isis is itself the direct product of the US and British occupation and
destruction of Iraq, and both countries back armed rebel groups fighting in
Syria - as they did in Libya. So no wonder would-be jihadis get confused about
who is on whose side. Western Isis volunteers are a disaster for Syria and Iraq,
but so far they haven't carried out return attacks at home.

That could of course change, not least as the government criminalises dissent,
brands conservative religiosity "extremist" and, in the formulation of
ministers, "quietly condones" Islamophobia. The British government has long fed
terrorism with its warmaking abroad. Now it's also fuelling it with its
scapegoating of Muslims at home.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      June 24, 2015 Wednesday 8:23 PM GMT

Boston Bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev sentenced to death for sickening terror attack
that killed four;
The 21-year-old told the Federal Court in Boston, where he is expected to be
given the death sentence tonight, that he was sorry for his crime

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 994 words


Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has been sentenced to death for his
despicable and cowardly crime.

The 21-year-old was sentenced to death by lethal injection by U.S. District
Judge George O'Toole.

Judge O'Toole said: "Whenever your name is mentioned what will be remembered is
the evil you have done.

"What will be remembered is that you murdered and maimed innocent people, you
did it intentionally."

He then asked Tsarnaev to stand.

His next words were:"I sentence you to death by execution."

Just before his sentence, the killer told the Federal Court in Boston that he
was sorry for his crime and the misery he inflicted upon innocent people.

He said: "I would like to begin in the name of Allah.

"I ask forgiveness of Allah and to his creation.

Death penalty opponents outside Boston courthouse as bomber Tsarnaev apologises

"I would like to thank the jury, the court. I would like to now apologise to the
victims, to the survivors"

"Immediately after the bombing which I am guilty of...I learned their faces,
their names.

"I am sorry for the lives that I've taken, the suffering that I've caused and
the damage that I've done, irreparable damage"

"I pray to Allah to put his mercy upon the deceased, the injured.

"I ask Allah to have mercy upon me, my brother, my family."

NECN reporter Alysha Palumbo tweeted: "The courtroom was completely silent as
Tsarnaev spoke quietly. Some survivors are now wiping away tears."

Survivor Lynn Julian, who suffered a traumatic brain injury in the bombing and
still lives near the site of the blasts, criticised Tsarnaev's apology.

She said outside the courtroom: "After we heard it, we wished he hadn't [spoken]
because the things he had to say were shocking.

"I regret ever wanting to hear him speak, because he showed no remorse, no
regret.

"He threw in an apology to the survivors that seemed insincere.

"A sincere apology would've been nice. A simple, believable apology would've
been great. There was nothing simple about what he said and there was nothing
sincere."

Earlier in today's hearing, parents of the dead and some of the scores wounded
in the 2013 attack defiantly confronted Tsarnaev today, calling him "cowardly"
at the hearing.

Tsarnaev tweet

The same federal jury that earlier this year found Tsarnaev guilty of killing
four people and injuring 264 in the bombing and its aftermath voted in May to
sentence him to death by lethal injection.

Rebekah Gregory, who lost her left leg in one of the highest-profile attacks on
U.S. soil since September 11, 2001, addressed Tsarnaev directly.

"Terrorists like you do two things in this world. One, they create mass
destruction, but the second is quite interesting," Gregory said.

"Because do you know what mass destruction really does? It brings people
together.

"We are Boston strong and we are America strong, and choosing to mess with us
was a terrible idea.

"How's that for your victim impact statement?" she asked.

Ed Fucarile, whose son Marc lost his right leg in the attack, stared at the
bomber as he read a statement.

"The first time I saw you in this courtroom, you were smirking at all the
victims for your unspeakable cowardly act.

"You don't seem to be smirking today," Fucarile said. "Your sentence today
should be severe as possible."

Tsarnaev, who appeared in court dressed in a dark sport jacket and open-collared
shirt, looked down and showed no emotion during the hearing.

Gregory and Fucarile were part of a stream of two dozen survivors of the attack
and relatives of the slain who discussed the pain they had suffered as a result
of the blasts.

Formal sentencing of convicted Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev

Several runners, some tearful, addressed the guilt they suffered for the
injuries suffered by friends who had come to cheer them on.

Tsarnaev's trial brought back some of Boston's darkest living memories. Jurors
saw videos of the bombs' blinding flashes and the chaotic aftermath on April 15,
2013 as emergency workers and spectators rushed to aid the wounded, many of whom
lost legs.

The bombing killed Martin Richard, 8, and Chinese exchange student Lingzi Lu,
26, and restaurant manager Krystle Campbell, 29.

Tsarnaev and his 26-year-old brother, Tamerlan, shot dead Massachusetts
Institute of Technology police officer Sean Collier, 26, three days after the
bombing.

Tamerlan Tsarnaev died following a gunfight with police that ended when Dzhokhar
ran him over with a car.

During the trial, federal prosecutors described the ethnic Chechen brothers as
adherents of al Qaeda's militant Islamist ideology who wanted to "punish
America" with the attack on the world-renowned race.

Tsarnaev's lawyers admitted their client had played a role in the attack but
tried to portray him as the junior partner in a scheme hatched and driven by his
older brother.

Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev sentenced to death

The Tsarnaev family came to the United States from Russia a decade before the
attack.

The parents of Martin Richard, the youngest to die in the attack, directly
addressed the defense's claim, saying the younger Tsarnaev could have prevented
the attack.

"He could have stopped his brother," said William Richard, who testified during
the trial about the agonising decision he made to leave his son to die in his
wife's arms so that he could save the life of his daughter, Jane, who lost a leg
in the attack.

"He could have changed his mind the morning of April 15, 2013, walked away with
a minimal sense of humanity and reported to authorities that his brother
intended to hurt others," Richard said.

"He chose to do nothing, to prevent all of this from happening and he chose to
accompany his brother and participate in this hate."

Tsarnaev, who did not testify in his own defence during the trial, is expected
to appeal.

Even after the sentencing, the legal wrangling over Tsarnaev's fate could play
out over years, if not decades.

Just three of the 74 people sentenced to death in the United States for federal
crimes since 1998 have been executed.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      June 24, 2015 Wednesday 8:14 PM GMT

Boston Bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev APOLOGISES to victims as he faces death sentence
for sickening terror attack;
The 21-year-old told the Federal Court in Boston, where he is expected to be
given the death sentence tonight, that he was sorry for his crime

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 826 words


Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev apologised to the victims of his
despicable and cowardly crime.

The 21-year-old told the Federal Court in Boston, where he is expected to be
given the death sentence tonight, that he was sorry for his crime and the misery
he inflicted upon innocent people.

He said: "I would like to begin in the name of Allah.

"I ask forgiveness of Allah and to his creation.

"I would like to thank the jury, the court. I would like to now apologize to the
victims, to the survivors"

"Immediately after the bombing which I am guilty of...I learned their faces,
their names.

"I am sorry for the lives that I've taken, the suffering that I've caused and
the damage that I've done, irreparable damage"

"I pray to Allah to put his mercy upon the deceased, the injured"

"I ask Allah to have mercy upon me, my brother, my family."

NECN reporter Alysha Palumbo tweeted: "The courtroom was completely silent as
Tsarnaev spoke quietly. Some survivors are now wiping away tears."

Tsarnaev is likely to be sentenced to death by U.S. District Judge George
O'Toole.

Earlier in today's hearing, parents of the dead and some of the scores wounded
in the 2013 attack defiantly confronted Tsarnaev today, calling him "cowardly"
at the hearing.

Tsarnaev tweet

The same federal jury that earlier this year found Tsarnaev guilty of killing
four people and injuring 264 in the bombing and its aftermath voted in May to
sentence him to death by lethal injection.

Rebekah Gregory, who lost her left leg in one of the highest-profile attacks on
U.S. soil since Sept. 11, 2001, addressed Tsarnaev directly.

"Terrorists like you do two things in this world. One, they create mass
destruction, but the second is quite interesting," Gregory said.

"Because do you know what mass destruction really does? It brings people
together.

"We are Boston strong and we are America strong, and choosing to mess with us
was a terrible idea.

"How's that for your victim impact statement?" she asked.

Ed Fucarile, whose son Marc lost his right leg in the attack, stared at the
bomber as he read a statement.

"The first time I saw you in this courtroom, you were smirking at all the
victims for your unspeakable cowardly act.

"You don't seem to be smirking today," Fucarile said. "Your sentence today
should be severe as possible."

Tsarnaev, who appeared in court dressed in a dark sport jacket and open-collared
shirt, looked down and showed no emotion during the hearing.

Gregory and Fucarile were part of a stream of two dozen survivors of the attack
and relatives of the slain who discussed the pain they had suffered as a result
of the blasts.

Several runners, some tearful, addressed the guilt they suffered for the
injuries suffered by friends who had come to cheer them on.

Tsarnaev's trial brought back some of Boston's darkest living memories. Jurors
saw videos of the bombs' blinding flashes and the chaotic aftermath on April 15,
2013 as emergency workers and spectators rushed to aid the wounded, many of whom
lost legs.

The bombing killed Martin Richard, 8, and Chinese exchange student Lingzi Lu,
26, and restaurant manager Krystle Campbell, 29.

Tsarnaev and his 26-year-old brother, Tamerlan, shot dead Massachusetts
Institute of Technology police officer Sean Collier, 26, three days after the
bombing.

Tamerlan Tsarnaev died following a gunfight with police that ended when Dzhokhar
ran him over with a car.

During the trial, federal prosecutors described the ethnic Chechen brothers as
adherents of al Qaeda's militant Islamist ideology who wanted to "punish
America" with the attack on the world-renowned race.

Tsarnaev's lawyers admitted their client had played a role in the attack but
tried to portray him as the junior partner in a scheme hatched and driven by his
older brother.

Boston Marathon bomber Dzhokhar Tsarnaev sentenced to death

The Tsarnaev family came to the United States from Russia a decade before the
attack.

The parents of Martin Richard, the youngest to die in the attack, directly
addressed the defense's claim, saying the younger Tsarnaev could have prevented
the attack.

"He could have stopped his brother," said William Richard, who testified during
the trial about the agonizing decision he made to leave his son to die in his
wife's arms so that he could save the life of his daughter, Jane, who lost a leg
in the attack.

"He could have changed his mind the morning of April 15, 2013, walked away with
a minimal sense of humanity and reported to authorities that his brother
intended to hurt others," Richard said.

"He chose to do nothing, to prevent all of this from happening and he chose to
accompany his brother and participate in this hate."

Tsarnaev, who did not testify in his own defense during the

trial, is expected to appeal.

Even after the sentencing, the legal wrangling over Tsarnaev's fate could play
out over years, if not decades.

Just three of the 74 people sentenced to death in the United States for federal
crimes since 1998 have been executed.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                dailypost.co.uk

                       June 25, 2015 Thursday 5:51 PM GMT

Victim of Mold Tesco attacker Zack Davies was subjected to "act of terrorism";
Sarnadev Bhambra's family speak after 26-year-old was convicted of attempted
murder following his unprovoked and racially motivated machete assault

BYLINE: By Steve Bagnall

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 634 words


The family of a dentist almost killed by a machete and hammer wielding racist
say he is the victim of an "act of terrorism".

Their statement was read outside Mold Crown Court after Zack Davies was
convicted of the attempted murder of Sarandev Singh Bhambra in Tesco supermarket
in Mold in January. Zack Davies guilty of attempted murder

Speaking on behalf of the family, Dr Bhambra's brother Tarlochan Singh Bhambra,
who is also a doctor, criticised the lack of national media coverage of the
shocking attack in January and expressed disappointment at Tesco's failure to
publicly condemn the incident.

Dr Bhambra said: "We are in no doubt that had the racial disposition been
reversed this would have been reported as an act of terror with a wider media
coverage. He wore masks and posed in front of far-right flags

Zack Davies launched a machete attack on a dentist in Tesco

"By his own admission the defendant, Zack Davies, had neo-Nazi views and is a
member of a white supremacist organisation.

"We are in no doubt given the racial and political motivations that this should
rightly be defined as an act of terrorism.

"Sarandev was singled out because of the colour of his skin.

"The media has a responsibility and an obligation to report these aspects of
this trial and bring to the fore the major implications of these.

"All extremist groups, including white supremacists as in this case that
advocate racially motivated hatred and violence on innocent people, should be
dealt with as terrorists." Zack Davies carried out 'fantasy' of far right
fanatics

The family went on to criticise Tesco which has "yet to publicly distance
themselves from this cowardly act of racial terrorism". Police at Tesco's in
Mold

Tesco In Mold

The family did however praise the bravery of Peter Fuller, a former soldier from
Mold, who stepped in to save the life of the 24-year-old dentist by persuading
Davies, of Chester Street in Mold, to put down his weapons.

Dr Bhambra said: "We are indebted and will be forever grateful to Mr Peter
Fuller who risked his own safety to save Sarandev from this wanton act of
terror.

"We are in no doubt that Mr Fullers actions, coupled with Sarandev's strength
and agility, saved his life."

The family went on to thank North Wales Police, emergency teams and the medical
teams at both the Countess of Chester and Wrexham Maelor hospitals for their
"excellent care" and the staff at Tesco's in Mold for their help in the
aftermath of the attack.

Dr Bhambra added: "He (Sarandev) is a young man that we are immensely proud of,
and has just started out on his chosen career path as a dentist and was
initially based at North Wales. Victim was singled out because of the colour of
his skin

"Sarandev was singled out because of his race and was brutally attacked from
behind with devastating force.

"This cowardly assault has left him with life changing injuries.

"Sarandev is currently undergoing an extensive programme of rehabilitation under
the auspices of Prof Kay and his physiotherapists."

The family said they were especially moved by the messages and support from the
public and people of Mold.

Dr Bhambra said the display of ignorance shown by Davies had been clear
throughout this trial. Davies arrives at Mold Crown Court

Zack Davies arrives at Mold Crown Court

"Ethnic minority's have and continue to contribute positively to the
multicultural Britain of 2015. Sikhs have sacrificed their lives in both world
wars to facilitate the freedom that Britain enjoys today.

"Racial intolerance is a thing of the past and should not be accepted in any
society."

Davies had admitted wounding with intent to inflict grievous bodily harm but had
denied attempted murder.

Judge Rhys Rowlands sent Davies to a high security hospital for psychiatric
reports to be prepared before he sentences him on September 11.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDPNM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Echo (NewsQuest)

                             June 25, 2015 Thursday

Knife attack terror victim has 70 stitches in chin

BYLINE: Chloe Chapman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 303 words


A MAN has told how he is lucky to be alive after being slashed in the face by a
crazed knifeman.

The 22-year-old, who does not want to be named, had to have 70 stitches in his
chin and four in his hand after being attacked in Norman Road, Canvey.

The young man went to a bungalow in the road following concerns for the welfare
of female friend and her five-month old baby, who had been locked inside with
her former partner.

He had stamped on her head many times, leaving her with facial injuries.

The attacker, who is still on the loose, then ran out of the bungalow with a
kitchen knife and attacked the male victim at about 8am on Monday morning.

The stabbed man said: "I was on the phone to police begging them to get inside
and help her. I just wanted to get her and her baby out of there, I was really
worried for her. At first I didn't realise I had been stabbed. As I started
running down the road to get help I noticed blood was pouring from my face.

"I can't really describe the pain.

It was all a bit of a blur.

"The doctors have actually done a really good job of sorting my face out. It
doesn't look as bad as I expected."

He went to C&J Autos, on Canvey High Street, where mechanics called paramedics
for him.

He was taken to Southend Hospital for treatment where medics told him if the
blade had gone through an artery he would have died.

The female victim has been taken into a safe house as the attacker has still not
been caught by police.

Eyewitnesses reported seeing a man, who appeared agitated, riding a bike close
to the scene shortly after the incident.

The suspect has since been spotted in the Southend area, according to his
victim.

A spokesman for Essex Police said: "Inquiries are continuing following an
incident in Norman Road, Canvey, in whichaman suffered facial injuries. A woman
was also assaulted."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 25, 2015 Thursday 8:28 PM GMT

Neo-Nazi attack on Asian dentist was a 'terrorist act', say family;
Zackery Davies, 26, shouted 'White Power' as he targeted his 24-year-old victim
with a machete and a claw hammer at a Tesco supermarket

BYLINE: Matthew Moore

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 532 words


Relatives of an Asian dentist who was viciously attacked with a machete by a
white supremacist have claimed the incident would have been reported as a
terrorist act if their races had been reversed.

Zackery Davies, 26, shouted "White Power" and "I did it for Lee Rigby" as he
targeted his 24-year-old victim with a machete and a claw hammer at a Tesco
supermarket in Mold, North Wales, on January 14.

He was found guilty of attempted murder at Mold Crown Court.

Davies is thought to have been inspired by the far-right group National Action,
and posted an online image of himself in a balaclava with a large knife hours
before he carried out his violent attack.

Davies, from Mold, caused Dr Sarandev Bhambra "very severe" injuries to his
hand, back and head which were described as life-changing. The incident happened
while the dentist, who is from a Sikh family,  was shopping at the store during
his lunch break.

Witnesses reported seeing a white man chasing an Asian man through the store
with a knife and hammer. Davies was only stopped when a member of the public,
former serviceman Peter Fuller, stepped in.

Speaking after Davies was convicted, Dr Bhambra's brother Dr Tarlochan Singh
Bhambra accused the media of largely ignoring the case - and refusing to refer
to the attack as terrorist - because the attacker was white and the victim
Asian.

"We are in no doubt, given the racial and political motivations, that this
should have been defined as an act of terrorism," he said. "By his own
admission, the defendant had extreme neo-Nazi views and is a member of a white
supremacist organisation.

"Sarandev was singled out because of the colour of his skin. The media have a
responsibility and an obligation to report these aspects of the trial and bring
to the fore the major implications of this."

Surrounded by family members and other supporters, he continued: "We are in no
doubt had the racial disposition of this case had been reversed this would have
been reported as an act of terror with wider media coverage.

"All extremists groups - including white supremacists - that advocate racially
motivated hatred and violence on innocent people should be dealt with as
terrorists.

"Ethnic minorities have and continue to contribute to the multi-cultural Britain
of 2015, and indeed Sikhs have sacrificed their lives in both world wars to
facilitate the freedom that Britain enjoys today. Racial intolerance is a thing
of the past and should not be accepted in any society."

Read more: Most-wanted Nazi 'unfit for trial' says German court

Davies was said to have been obsessed with Nazi ideology, with associated
literature found in a police search of his home.  Posters relating to the 2013
murder of Fusilier Rigby by two Islamic extremists were also discovered. Giving
evidence, Davies said he was "fascinated" by "Jihadi John".

Davies had admitted wounding with intent but denied attempted murder. He will be
sentenced at a later date.

Gareth Preston, senior prosecutor, said: "Zackery Davies is a dangerous young
man whose distorted and racist views led him to commit a terrifying act of
violence.

"This was an attack against a complete stranger, singled out for no other reason
than his ethnicity."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 25, 2015 Thursday 12:38 AM GMT

The Golden Temple, a terror attack, and 'something to do with the elections':
What today's college kids know about the Emergency

BYLINE: RADHIKA BHALLA

SECTION: INDIANEWS

LENGTH: 363 words


It may be an integral part of our country's history, but the Emergency has
failed to find space in the minds of today's youth.

The current college-going generation - children born in the '90s - are unsure
what the 21-month period was all about, and what impact it had on the people of
this country.

Take a walk around various college campuses in the Capital and the results are
as interesting as they are surprising.

When asked what she knows about the Emergency, Swati who's pursuing a Masters in
political science from ARSD College said: "When there is a fight between
nations, a country needs to protect itself. As far as my memory is concerned,
Indira Gandhi launched Article 367. The Emergency Act was launched to basically
protect the country, people and nation from the enemy," she said.

According to Shubhangi, who's busy applying for various colleges: "I've heard
about it, but I'm not too sure. It could be because of that case of the Golden
Temple."

On the same theme, Devang from VIPS, IP University, states: "It was because of
the Sikh riots. They were going a bit out of control, and the Emergency helped
in the completion of the Blue Star Operation."

Harit from Asian Business School got the gist of the story: "It's being
played/shown in the news a lot these days. The Emergency was declared by Indira
Gandhi because of something to do with the elections."

Sachi from SPM College said: "It was something to do with a terror attack in
Delhi, and Presidential Rule was applied by Indira Gandhi."

Lest you think the campus crowd is as unaware as ever, there were some who got
it right.

Debayu Chatterjee, who's pursuing a Master's in English from Sri Venkateswara
College, said: "The Emergency started during Indira Gandhi's regime in 1975 till
1977 during which certain democratic agencies were cut off and several
newspapers were censored. It was also the time when the sterilisation drive was
initiated. It wasn't received very well by the countrymen, and as a result,
there were huge repercussions for the Congress."

Needless to say, while most college kids can rattle off every Yo-Yo Honey Singh
song in an instant, a short lesson in history would do them no harm.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      June 25, 2015 Thursday 10:49 PM GMT

Zack Davies: Tesco machete attack was an 'act of terrorism' says victim's
family;
Dr Sarandev Bhambra's brother Tarlochan Singh Bhambra, who is also a doctor,
criticised the lack of national media coverage of the shocking attack

BYLINE: By Steve Bagnall

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 573 words


The family of the man attacked by a man with a machete outside Tesco say the
assault was an 'act of terrorism'.

Dr Sarandev Bhambra , 24, was the victim of a hammer and machete attack by Zack
Davies - who described Jihadi John as an "inspiration" - in supermarket in Mold.

Davies was convicted of attempted murder, but speaking on behalf of the family,
Dr Bhambra's brother Tarlochan Singh Bhambra, who is also a doctor, criticised
the lack of national media coverage of the shocking attack in January.

He also expressed disappointment at Tesco's failure to publicly condemn the
incident, report the Daily Post .

He said: "We are in no doubt that had the racial disposition been reversed this
would have been reported as an act of terror with a wider media coverage.

"By his own admission the defendant, Zack Davies, had neo-Nazi views and is a
member of a white supremacist organisation.

"We are in no doubt given the racial and political motivations that this should
rightly be defined as an act of terrorism. Sarandev was singled out because of
the colour of his skin.

"The media has a responsibility and an obligation to report these aspects of
this trial and bring to the fore the major implications of these.

"All extremist groups, including white supremacists as in this case that
advocate racially motivated hatred and violence on innocent people, should be
dealt with as terrorists."

The family went on to criticise Tesco which has "yet to publicly distance
themselves from this cowardly act of racial terrorism".

The family did however praise the bravery of Peter Fuller, a former soldier from
Mold who stepped in to save the life of the 24-year-old dentist by persuading
Davies to put down his weapons.

Dr Bhambra said: "We are indebted and will be forever grateful to Mr Peter
Fuller who risked his own safety to save Sarandev from this wanton act of
terror.

"We are in no doubt that Mr Fuller's actions, coupled with Sarandev's strength
and agility, saved his life."

The family went on to thank North Wales Police, emergency teams and the medical
teams at both the Countess of Chester and Wrexham Maelor hospitals for their
"excellent care" and the staff at Tesco's in Mold for their help in the
aftermath of the attack.

Dr Bhambra added: "He (Sarandev) is a young man that we are immensely proud of,
and has just started out on his chosen career path as a dentist and was
initially based at North Wales.

"Sarandev was singled out because of his race and was brutally attacked from
behind with devastating force.

"This cowardly assault has left him with life changing injuries.

"Sarandev is currently undergoing an extensive programme of rehabilitation under
the auspices of Prof Kay and his physiotherapists."

The family said they were especially moved by the messages and support from the
public and people of Mold.

Dr Bhambra said the display of ignorance shown by Davies had been clear
throughout this trial.

"Ethnic minorities have and continue to contribute positively to the
multicultural Britain of 2015.

"Sikhs have sacrificed their lives in both world wars to facilitate the freedom
that Britain enjoys today.

"Racial intolerance is a thing of the past and should not be accepted in any
society."

Davies had admitted wounding with intent to inflict grievous bodily harm but had
denied attempted murder.

Judge Rhys Rowlands sent Davies to a high security hospital for psychiatric
reports to be prepared before he sentences him on September 11.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                       June 25, 2015 Thursday 5:35 PM GMT

'An act of terror': Sikh family of dentist attacked in Tesco by machete-wielding
extremist speak out;
Sarandev Bhambra suffered horrific injuries in Zack Davies' attempted murder
attack in Mold

BYLINE: By walesonline

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 430 words


The family of injured dentist Dr Sarandev Bhambra said Zack Davies had committed
"an act of terror" in launching a machete race attack in a Tesco store.

If their races had been reversed the family had no doubt it would have been
reported as "terrorism".

Dr Bhambra's brother, Dr Tarlochan Singh Bhambra, made a statement outside Mold
Crown Court after Davies was found guilty of attempted murder. 'This should be
rightly defined as an act of terrorism'

"Sarandev was singled out because of the colour of his skin. We are in no doubt
that had the racial disposition of this case been reversed this would be
reported as an act of terror with a wider media coverage.

"We as a family have listened intently to the evidence... and are in no doubt
given the racial and political motivation that this should be rightly defined as
an act of terrorism.

"By his own admission Zach Davies had extreme neo-nazi views and is a member of
a white supremacist organisation."

Dr Bhambra said there had been a display of "ignorance" throughout the trial.

"Ethnic minorities have and continue to contribute positively to the
multicultural Britain of 2015. Sikhs have sacrificed their lives in both world
wars to facilitate the freedom that Britain enjoys today." Cowardly attack left
him with 'life-changing injuries'

He said his brother, who was born in Leeds, was a young man his family was
immensely proud of and had just started out on his chosen career.

"This cowardly assault has left him with life changing injuries. Sarandev is
currently undergoing an extensive programme of rehabilitation.

"We are indebted and will be forever grateful to Mr Peter Fuller who risked his
own safety to save Sarandev from this wanton act of terror. We are in no doubt
Mr Fuller's actions, couple with Sarandev's strength and agility, saved his
life.

"Sarandev has also asked us to convey out gratitude to the attending emergency
services, North Wales Police, Pc Ross Tutton and Iolo Edwards and Eleri Thomas.
We would also like to thank the staff at Mold Tesco that helped Sarandev."

They were also grateful for messages of support from people in Mold. 'An
embarrassment and shock'

DCI Alun Oldfield said North Wales Police welcomed the verdict and had no doubt
there would be a lengthy sentence.

The racially motivated attack was an "embarrassment and shock" for the people of
Mold but not typical.

He hoped Dr Bhambra would one day return to work in Mold and he would be
supported in every way possible.

"Zack Davies is clearly a dangerous individual and this, I am sure, will be
clearly reflected in the sentence," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 2:34 PM GMT

4th UPDATE: Tunisian Holiday Resort Targeted In Terror Attack

LENGTH: 359 words


TUNIS (Alliance News) - Tunisia's deadliest attack in more than a decade claimed
the lives of at least 27 people Friday as gunmen opened fire on a beach crowded
with foreign tourists in the resort city of Sousse.

Interior Ministry spokesman Mohammed al-Aroui said terrorists had targeted the
Imperial Marhaba Hotel, a popular destination among Europeans.

One suspect was killed in an exchange of fire with police, while a second was
arrested after a manhunt.

"For sure, the victims include foreign tourists," the ministry official said,
without giving details.

Local tourism official Salwa al-Qadari said the victims included British and
German nationals. Scandinavian tour operators said several hundred Swedes,
Norwegians and Danes were holidaying in the area at the time.

"Tourists are still in panic. The attack is a disater, coming at the start of
the tourism season in Tunisia," al-Qadari told dpa.

The tourism industry is one of Tunisia's biggest employers.

Gary Pine, a 47-year-old British eyewitness, said his family and fellow tourists
had initially mistaken the sound of gunshots for firecrackers.

"Only when I went back to get my bag did I realize that it was gunshots. You
could hear and sense the gunshots in the air, so everyone made a very fast
exit," Pine told dpa by telephone.

Sousse is located around 120 kilometres south-east of the capital Tunis.

Friday's incident, which coincided with other notable terror attacks in France
and Kuwait, is only the latest to affect Tunisia, where radical Islamist groups
have been gaining influence since the overthrow of dictator Zine El Abidine Ben
Ali, in January 2011.

In March, gunmen killed 21 tourists and a policeman in an attack at the Bardo
museum in the capital. The Islamic State extremist group claimed responsibility
for that attack.

On October 30, 2013, a suicide bomber blew himself up outside the luxury Riadh
Palm hotel in Sousse, after repeatedly trying to enter it.

In 2002, an explosives-laden truck was detonated outside a synagogue on the
island of Djerba, killing 14 German tourists, three Tunisians and two French
nationals. Al-Qaeda claimed responsibility for that attack.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

"Terrorist attack" reported at hotel in Tunisian city of Sousse

LENGTH: 38 words


Saudi-funded Al-Arabiya TV aired an "urgent" screen caption at around 1127 gmt
on 26 June, which read: "Media sources: Terrorist attack on hotel in Tunisian
city of Sousse."

Source: Al-Arabiya TV, Dubai, in Arabic 1127 gmt 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Iran ministry spokeswoman condemns terrorist attack in Kuwait

LENGTH: 124 words


Iran's Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham has condemned a terrorist
attack on a Shi'i mosque in Kuwait, the Iranian Students News Agency (ISNA)
reported on 26 June.

According to the report, Afkham condemned the suicide blast at the shrine of the
Sixth Shi'i Imam, Sadiq Mosque, in Kuwait, where several Muslims where killed
and injured.

"As the Islamic Republic has declared several times, Takfiri terrorism is the
main threat to regional nations. In order to confront this threat, regional
governments must consider serious encounter against this evil phenomenon and its
supporting financial and intellectual resources as a priority in their security
policies," Afkham added.

Source: ISNA website, Tehran, in Persian 1242 gmt 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Egypt condemns terrorist attack in Tunisia's Sousse

LENGTH: 142 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 26 June: Egypt condemned on Friday [26 June] in the strongest terms the
hideous terrorist attack that struck two tourist hotels in the Tunisian resort
city of Sousse, leaving scores of people dead and injured.

Foreign Ministry Spokesman Badr Abd-al-Ati said that Egypt stands by Tunisia in
the fight against terrorism, adding that such terrorist attacks have nothing to
do with the tolerant and moderate teachings of Islam.

The foreign ministry spokesman expressed his country's condolences to the
victims' families and wished a speedy recovery for the injured.

Also, he voiced Egypt's firm stance regarding the necessity of unifying
international efforts to combat the phenomenon of terrorism, which threatens
world peace and stability.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1249gmt 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Iran deplores terrorist attack on Tunisian hotel

LENGTH: 133 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 26 June: Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Marzieh Afkham on Friday [26 June]
deplored terror attack on a hotel in Tunisian city of Sousse. She said the
terrorist attacks aim to tarnish the image of Islam and disturb stability of the
regional and Islamic states. She called for collective measures of the
governments to uproot terrorism and counter the extremist groups.

Afkham urged the Muslim governments to take effective steps to counter terrorism
damaging image and unity of the Muslim world.

Tunis Interior Ministry announced that terrorists have launched an attack on a
hotel in Sousse, killing 19 and wounding scores of people.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1530 gmt 26 Jun
15

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

"Cut off ugly tentacles of terrorism", Ukraine minister says after attacks

LENGTH: 119 words


Excerpt from report by private Ukrainian news agency UNIAN

Kiev, 26 June: Ukrainian Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin has said that the
international community must "cut off the disgusting tentacles of terrorism".

"I am shocked by the deadly attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait. We, the
international community, must cut off the ugly tentacles of terrorism," Klimkin
tweeted [tinyurl.com/pyomd27].

For his part, Ukraine's ambassador to France, Oleh Shamshur, has said:
"Terrorists in France, Tunisia, Kuwait and Ukraine act differently, but heir
actions make people suffer".

[Passage omitted: background on the 26 June terrorist acts in France and
Tunisia]

Source: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1357 gmt 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Egypt strongly slams Kuwait, France, Tunisia terror attacks

LENGTH: 122 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 26 June: The Egyptian Presidency slammed on Friday [26 June] the
terrorist attacks that targeted sites in Kuwait, France and Tunisia earlier in
the day.

In a statement, the presidency expressed support for the three countries in
their fight against terrorism and extremism.

"Egypt is confident that such terrorist attacks will not affect the
determination of the three countries to have a promising and prosperous future,"
the statement said.

A number of gunmen killed at least 27 people at a beachfront Tunisian hotel on
Friday, the same day terrorists attacked a gas factory in France and bombed a
mosque in Kuwait.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1535gmt 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Arab League chief condemns terror attack on Shi'i mosque in Kuwait

LENGTH: 115 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 26 June: Arab League (AL) Secretary General Nabil al-Arabi strongly
condemned on Friday [26 June] the terrorist attack that targeted Al Imam
Al-Sadiq Mosque in Al-Sawabir neighbourhood in Kuwait city, leaving scores of
worshipers dead and injured.

In statements, the AL chief said such terror attacks against innocent worshipers
are totally rejected by all religions and contradict religious values.

Those terror acts assert the need to unify Arab and international efforts in the
face of all terrorist and extremist groups that threaten world peace and
stability, he added.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1249gmt 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            BBC Monitoring Kiev Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday
                              Correction Appended

(Corr) "Cut off ugly tentacles of terrorism", Ukraine minister says after
attacks

LENGTH: 135 words


(Correcting the quote in the first and third paragraphs. A corrected version of
the item follows:)

Excerpt from report by private Ukrainian news agency UNIAN

Kiev, 26 June: Ukrainian Foreign Minister Pavlo Klimkin has said that the
international community must "cut off the ugly tentacles of terrorism".

"I am shocked by the deadly attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait. We, the
international community, must cut off the ugly tentacles of terrorism," Klimkin
tweeted [tinyurl.com/pyomd27].

For his part, Ukraine's ambassador to France, Oleh Shamshur, has said:
"Terrorists in France, Tunisia, Kuwait and Ukraine act differently, but their
actions make people suffer."

[Passage omitted: background on the 26 June terrorist acts in France and
Tunisia]

Source: UNIAN news agency, Kiev, in Ukrainian 1357 gmt 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 26, 2015



CORRECTION: (Correcting the quote in the first and third paragraphs. A corrected
version of the item follows:)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Russian Foreign Ministry condemns Kuwait terror attack

LENGTH: 149 words


Text of "Comment by the Information and Press Department on the recent terrorist
act in Kuwait", published in English by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs
website on 26 June

A suicide bomber attacked a crowd praying on Friday [26 June] at a Shi'i mosque
in the area of al-Sawabir in Kuwait's capital, Kuwait City, on 26 June, killing
at least 15 people and injuring dozens, reports say. No Russian nationals have
been reported among the victims.

ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack, according to media.

We strongly condemn this extremist attack. We offer our condolences to the
families of those killed and wish a speedy recovery to the injured. We reaffirm
our solidarity with the leadership and people of the friendly State of Kuwait in
their fight against terrorism in all of its manifestations.

June 26, 2015

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Moscow, in English 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Russian TV news: Primakov, terror attacks, Putin, sanctions, Ukraine

LENGTH: 1005 words


Main themes on Russian primetime TV news on Channel One, Rossiya 1 and NTV on 26
June

The death of Yevgeniy Primakov, former chief of foreign intelligence, foreign
minister and primer minister of Russia, was by far the biggest story on Russian
state TV today. All three main channels - state-controlled Channel One, official
state Rossiya 1 and Gazprom-Media's NTV - led with it. Tributes to Primakov were
followed by the coverage of the terror attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France.
President Vladimir Putin's inspection of the progress of construction of homes
for the victims of the spring forest fires in Khakassia was another story
covered by all three networks.

Primakov - political "titan", architect of "multipolarity"

A patriot, an unyielding "political heavyweight", a "titan", a "patriarch" of
Russian politics, a fine intellectual and brilliant academic, a modest and
decent man with a great sense of humour who was admired and respected across the
world. These were just some of the tributes paid to Yevgeniy Primakov, who
passed away today at the age of 85. "An epoch has gone" with his death, declared
NTV.

Primakov was credited with designing the "principle of multipolarity" in
international relations and initiating a U-turn in Russia's foreign policy at a
time when Moscow's opinion was "ignored". His decision to call off a visit to
the USA and turn his plane around over the Atlantic in protest at NATO's
decision to bomb Yugoslavia was reported as a highlight of his career. It
"shocked" the US administration, but they too gradually realized that it was not
just the Russian prime minister's plane but Moscow's "entire foreign policy"
that had made a U-turn, said Channel One.

Terror attacks - Arab Spring to blame

Russian state TV's coverage of today's terror attacks in Tunisia, France and
Kuwait contained very little editorial comment. One channel suggested the
uprisings in North Africa and the Middle East, which began in Tunisia in late
2010, were to blame. Another said, in a report not related to today's attacks,
that it was Washington that was responsible for the rise of Islamic extremism.

"A horrific summer in the epicentre of the Arab Spring," said Channel One about
the Tunisia killings.

In one of its reports on Primakov's death, Rossiya 1 blamed the rise in
radicalism and terrorism on the United States, saying that "Islamic State would
have never grown so big had it not been for Washington".

NTV questioned the professionalism of France's security bodies. "The behaviour
of the French special services has once again been surprising," said
correspondent Vadim Glusker reporting on the attack on a gas factory near Lyon.
"Why was such a dangerous and, more importantly, universally known criminal at
large for all this time?" he wondered.

"Massive thank you" to Putin from victims of Khakassia forest fires

Vladimir Putin was today shown "personally" checking on the progress of
construction of new homes for the victims of the forest fires that raised to the
ground entire villages in Khakassia region earlier this year.

Rossiya 1 saw him arriving at one such village to cheers and applause from a
group of presumably local residents. "Thank you, a massive thank you to you for
everything you are doing for our Russia, for us, ordinary people," one woman
said greeting Putin.

Nadezhda Makarova, another local resident, was today in an "excellent mood", the
Rossiya 1 correspondent said. She was "in tears" during Putin's annual phone-in
two months ago, he recalled. "We are waiting for you to hep us," Makarova begged
Putin then via a video link. And now, the correspondent observed over footage of
several half-built homes, the works are in their "final" stage.

Some of the footage suggested however that not all is well for those who lost
their homes in the forest fires. In another village, Putin encountered a rather
more anxious crowd. "Nothing is being built," one woman told him. "No-one has
even come here," added another.

"We shall now discuss this. This is why I came here," Putin reassured them. He
was then shown instructing officials to "help people... This must be done,
quickly and in a quality manner".

EU counting cost of sanctions, "very difficult" year ahead

Rossiya 1 predicted that the extension of economic sanctions by the EU and of
counter-sanctions by Moscow earlier this week would cause enormous damage to
economies across Europe. Danish pig farms, for example, will require between
"five and 10 years" to find "alternative" markets, Norway has "forever" lost its
"biggest" fish market, farmers in Germany are "demanding compensations", while
Italians are afraid to "even count the cost" of the sanctions.

A "very difficult" year lies ahead for many EU economies, Rossiya 1 said.

As far as Russian manufacturers are concerned, the sanctions provide an
"additional opportunity" and "stimulus" for development.

Ukraine

Ukraine did not feature in today's news as prominently as it has done on most
days in recent months.

Putin's instruction to Gazprom to negotiate a new natural gas transit deal was
the only story covered by NTV.

Channel One said the amendments to the constitution proposed by the Ukrainian
authorities were at odds with the Minsk accords on conflict settlement.

Rossiya 1 accused Kiev of maintaining a "suffocating blockade" of the
self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic. A report from a home for severely ill
and disabled people showed those affected by it. The shortage of critical
medication means staff can only provide "the absolute minimum". Those in need of
insulin rely on Russian "humanitarian" convoys.

Ukrainian forces in the meantime continue to shell Donetsk, according to Rossiya
1. "More than 140 rounds landed on Donetsk today," presenter Tatyana Remezova
said.

Rossiya 1 also reported on an anti-American protest in Kiev, in which a man,
reportedly dressed in US army clothes, covered himself in animal blood. Blood is
being spilt in my country, there is war in Donbass because of the Americans, he
shouted.

Source: as listed in Russian 1900 gmt 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Moroccan king offers condolences to Tunisian president on "terror" attack

LENGTH: 185 words


Text of report in English by state-owned, government controlled Moroccan news
agency MAP website

Rabat, 26 June: HM King Mohammed VI has sent a message of condolences to
Tunisian President Beji Caid Essebsi following the "despicable" terrorist attack
that targeted, Friday [6 June], a tourist resort in the city of Sousse, killing
several innocent victims.

In this message, the sovereign expressed to the Tunisian president Morocco's
"strong condemnation" of this terrorist attack and its "total solidarity" with
the brotherly people of Tunisia.

HM the king said that "it was with deep sorrow and grief that he learned the sad
news of the despicable terrorist attack against a tourist resort in the city of
Sousse".

The sovereign also expressed Morocco's "strong condemnation of this cowardly
criminal act which targeted the security and stability" of Tunisia and the total
solidarity of Morocco with the brotherly Tunisian people and its constant
support to fight all forms of terrorism, rejected by all heavenly religions and
noble human values.

Source: MAP news agency website, Rabat, in English 2035 gmt 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 4:19 PM GMT

Man beheaded at French factory in suspected terrorist attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 620 words


An attacker with suspected ties to French Islamic radicals has rammed a car into
a gas factory in France, and the severed head of a local businessman was hung
from a post at the entrance, officials said.

Two more people were injured in the attack in in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier,
south-east of Lyon, authorities said.

President Francois Hollande, speaking in Brussels, said the attack began when a
car crashed through the gate of the factory and ploughed into gas canisters,
touching off an explosion.

"No doubt about the intention - to cause an explosion," Mr Hollande said,
calling the attack "of a terrorist nature".

Interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve said a man who had been flagged in 2006 for
suspected ties to extremists was seized by an alert firefighter, and was one of
multiple people in custody after the attack.

A security official said the victim was the head of a local transportation
company who is believed to have been killed before the explosion. His name was
not released.

Authorities said his body was found near the site of the attack.

Mr Cazeneuve said: "People who could have participated in this abject crime are
in custody."

He added that the suspect was known to intelligence services who had him under
surveillance from 2006 to 2008. The man is from the Lyon region, he said.

The head was found staked on a gate at the factory's entrance, in what appeared
to be an echo of the Islamic State group's practice of beheading prisoners and
displaying their heads for all to see.

An official said two flags - one white and one black, both with Arabic
inscriptions - were found nearby.

France's anti-terror prosecutor said an investigation had been opened and
potential charges included plotting as part of "a terrorist group".

Mr Hollande spoke after watching TV news reports about the attack with German
chancellor Angela Merkel as both leaders attended a European Union summit in
Brussels.

The industrial site belongs to Air Products, a US chemical company based in
Allentown, Pennsylvania.

Air Products says all its employees are accounted but has not confirmed whether
its staff were among the two people reported injured. The company said in a
statement that all employees have been evacuated from the site, which is secure.

It said: "Our crisis and emergency response teams have been activated and are
working closely with all relevant authorities."

Mr Cazeneuve said the investigation has just begun and cautioned against jumping
to conclusions.

France went on high alert after attacks in January against the satirical
newspaper Charlie Hebdo, a kosher grocery store and a policewoman that left 20
people dead in the Paris region, including three Islamic extremist attackers.

Since then, fears of copycat attacks have risen. One person was arrested after
authorities said he was plotting to target churches in the Paris region. Mr
Cazeneuve said security has been heightened at religious sites around the
country.

Live television footage from France showed two people - a woman and another
person whose head was covered - being led away by security forces from the
detained suspect's apartment building in Saint Priest, a suburb of Lyon.

France's leading security official said the suspect himself was detained
earlier, and another official said the suspect's wife was among those taken into
custody.

Officials said the suspect apparently miscalculated how explosive the chemicals
he smashed into would be.

A police intelligence official said the man who was detained was Yassine Salhi,
who is in his 30s and from the Lyon suburb of Saint-Priest.

Security officials picked up two people from Salhi's apartment, one of them said
to be Salhi's wife.

Three French officials said the decapitated victim was Salhi's employer.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Beverley Guardian

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

BREAKING: Beverley woman in terror attack

LENGTH: 1093  words


A woman from Beverley, East Yorkshire is reported to have been caught up in the
suspected terror attack in Tunisia.

Sally Groome, who works for Minster FM in York was in the Tunisian resort and
told the station what she witnessed.

She said: "I was lying on a sunbed then all of a sudden lots of people came
running very, very fast from the beach and then a member of the hotel staff said
for us all to make our way to reception. So everyone went quickly to reception
and then we were told to go to our rooms. We overlook the main road, and there's
been so many police vehicles and sirens all heading towards what we think is the
direction of the beach."

At 27 people are thought to have been killed in the attack.

One gunman was killed and another is being pursued in the town of Sousse, a
popular holiday destination for Britons.

Photographs have been posted on Instagram showing a man on the beach wearing
blue shorts lying face down in the sand with what looks like blood in the area
around his head.

Empty sun loungers can be seen behind him and there does not appear to be anyone
else near him.

Elizabeth O'Brien, an Irish woman on holiday with her two sons in the resort,
described how she grabbed her children and ran for their lives when they heard
gunfire erupting from one of the hotels.

"We were on the beach, my sons were in the sea and I just got out of the sea. It
was about 12 o'clock and I just looked up about 500 metres from me and I saw a
(hot air) balloon collapse down, then rapid firing, then I saw two of the people
who were going to go up in the balloon start to run towards me - because I
thought it was fireworks," the Dubliner told RTE Radio.

"So, I thought oh my God, it sounds like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to
my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the
waiters and the security on the beach started saying run, run run!' and we just
ran to our room, which is like a little bungalow.

"So we are actually trapped in our room."

Ms O'Brien said the Irish consul in Madrid, Spain, called her to say it was a
terrorist attack in the hotel next door and told her to stay where she was.

"My travel agent told me to go to the reception to speak to the rep, but I'm
afraid. I'm stuck in the room with my two sons, not knowing what's going on,"
she said.

The Foreign Office said it is aware of the reports and was investigating.

Speaking at the conclusion of the European Council summit in Brussels, Prime
Minister David Cameron said he had spoken to French president Francois Hollande
to offer his support following the attack in Grenoble and would also speak to
the Tunisian government following the attack there to offer "our solidarity in
fighting this evil of terrorism".

He said: "This is a threat that faces all of us. These events have taken place
today in Tunisia and in France but they can happen anywhere. We all face this
threat.

"There will be a ministerially-chaired Cobra meeting, the Government's emergency
committee, later on this afternoon to make sure we are doing everything we can
to co-operate and co-ordinate with other countries and any information that we
have we share with them in fighting this threat."

He added: "We have got to do all we can to help. That means co-operating on
counter-terrorism, building our capacity on counter-terrorism, it means dealing
with the threat at source whether that is Isil in Syria and Iraq or whether it
is other extremist groups around the world.

"Perhaps more important than anything is poisonous radical narrative that is
turning so many young minds and we have to combat it with everything we have."

The Prime Minister said that the West must stop "the poisoning of ... young
minds" by Islamic State (IS) and other extremists.

"The people who do these things, they sometimes claim they do it in the name of
Islam. They don't. Islam is a religion of peace. They do it in the name of a
twisted and perverted ideology that we have to confront with everything that we
have.

"We must stop the poisoning of these young minds in our country, in other
European countries, and around the world."

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists.

Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis. Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn
by the hotels, sandy beaches and culture.

Thomas Cook, which has holidaymakers in the resort, said: "Thomas Cook has been
advised of an incident that occurred earlier today in Sousse, Tunisia.

"At this time, details are not clear as to which property(ies) have been
affected, with conflicting news reports.

"We are currently gathering information and will provide an update as soon as
possible. Our teams on the ground are offering every support to our customers
and their families in the area.

"We will continue to monitor the situation, working closely with the FCO and
local authorities.

British holidaymaker Gary Pine is staying in the El Mouradi Palm Marina hotel
close to where the incident happened.

Situated at the back of the hotel, near the pool area, he told Sky News by phone
that he could no longer hear any noise and said the hotel was "very, very quiet"
at that stage, but said it would have been very busy.

"The beach tends to be full up very quickly so it's the usual story of getting
down to lay your towel at half past six to get a decent beach position, so all
of the beach positions were taken," he said.

Mr Pine said that at the front of his hotel alone there would have been "several
hundred" people, and he said he could see every resort along and there would
have been "several hundred" more outside the others.

"So it's quite a busy beach.

"There's a lot of people walking up and down, taking in this lovely weather, so
it's a very busy beach, but as I said it became apparent very quick that it was
something more than firecrackers when you could hear bullets whizzing around,"
he said.

It is believed there are scores of Irish holidaymakers in Sousse at the moment.

While Dublin's Department of Foreign Affairs could not immediately confirm the
number of citizens in the resort, it said there were no reports at this stage of
any Irish hurt.

"Our embassy in Madrid and our Honorary Consul in Tunis are monitoring the
situation in Sousse, Tunisia and are providing updates," a spokeswoman said.

"We are currently not aware of any Irish citizens involved in the incident.

"Anyone with concerns about family or friends can call the Department on 01 408
2000."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NBEV


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Beverley Guardian

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

BREAKING: Brid woman and Ryedale couple in Tunisia terror attack

LENGTH: 259  words


A Bridlington woman and a Malton couple are reported to be safe but "shaken"
after surviving the terrorist attack at the Tunisian resort town of Sousse.

Both Diane Brown, 49, of Quay Road, Bridlington, and Barry and Suzanne West, of
Reeton Terrace, Norton, are believed to be in their respective hotel rooms
following this morning's tragedy.

Speaking to the Bridlington Free Press, Diane's son Danny Brown, 30, of Sewerby
Road, said: "We don't know much. It's hard to get information out at the moment.

"I called the embassy and they couldn't give me any information because it was
still ongoing.

"She rang me saying what had happened. She was told to stay in her room by
security. She said there's security all round the hotel including helicopters.

"She was on the beach at the time it happened which is just over the road from
the hotel.

"She said she could hear the machine guns going off and screaming going to the
hotel. I was all happening when she was talking.

"She is in her room. She was really scared and shaken."

Mandy West told the Malton and Pickering Mercury that her dad Barry had managed
to make a quick phonecall to his father to let him know he and his wife,
Suzanne, were okay.

"He rang my granddad, he didn't have long, and just said they are okay," she
said.

"They came down for breakfast and sat otuside and heard gunshots. The hotel
staff got everyone inside and they have been in their room for the past three
hours."

She added: "My dad apparently said he will ring them when he can and let them
know whether they will be coming home."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NBEV


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 1:34 PM GMT

Live: Tunisia hotel attack - more than 27 reported dead at resort popular with
British tourists;
Updates as multiple casualties are reported to have been killed at Tunisia's
tourist resort of Sousse following a terror attack, the country's interior
ministry has said

BYLINE: By Gary Young

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 6 words


Live updates from Tunisia hotel attack

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       June 26, 2015 Friday 12:21 PM GMT

Decapitated head found on gate after suspected Islamic terror attack in France;

Two flags, one white and one black and both with Arabic inscriptions, were found
at the scene

BYLINE: By Agency Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 182 words


A decapitated head has been found posted on the gate at the entrance to a gas
factory after it came under attack in south-eastern France, security officials
said.

The torso was found near the site of an explosion at the scene near Grenoble but
the victim was not decapitated by the blast, officials said.

Two flags, one white and one black and both with Arabic inscriptions, were found
at the scene.

Several people were wounded in the incident. French officials said it began
mid-morning in the Isere region when two men crashed a car into the entrance of
the factory and into gas canisters, touching off the explosion.

One attacker, who is said to be known to authorities, has been arrested.

Police are searching for anyone else involved in the attack, and interior
minister Bernard Cazeneuve has arrived at the scene.

France's anti-terror prosecutor said the attack was carried out by "a terrorist
group".

France went on high alert in January after extremist brothers Said and Cherif
Kouachi killed 12 people - including two police officers - in attacks on
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

UPDATE: British tourists among 28 people killed in terror attack in Tunisia

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 802 words


British tourists are among 28 people who have been killed in a gun attack at a
Tunisian beach resort.

The slaughter happened when gunmen exchanged fire with security services on the
busy beach in the town of Sousse, a popular destination for holidaymakers from
the UK and Ireland.

The country's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons,
Tunisians, Germans and Belgians. Thirty six others have been wounded.

An Irish woman is understood to be among the 28 victims massacred in the gun
attack, an Irish government source said.

Interior Ministry spokesman Mohammed Ali Aroui said: "A terrorist infiltrated
the buildings from the back before opening fire on the residents of the hotel,
including foreigners and Tunisians."

Those killed are more likely to be foreign as the local Muslim population is
less likely to go to the beach during the holy month of Ramadan.

Pictures posted on social media appeared to show the body of a man face down in
the sand with empty sun loungers behind him.

Elizabeth O'Brien, an Irish woman on holiday with her two sons in the resort,
described how she grabbed her children and ran for their lives when they heard
gunfire erupting from one of the hotels.

''We were on the beach, my sons were in the sea and I just got out of the sea.

"It was about 12 o'clock and I just looked up about 500 metres from me and I saw
a (hot air) balloon collapse down, then rapid firing, then I saw two of the
people who were going to go up in the balloon start to run towards me - because
I thought it was fireworks,'' the Dubliner told RTE Radio.

"So, I thought 'Oh my God, it sounds like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to
my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the
waiters and the security on the beach started saying 'run, run run!' and we just
ran to our room, which is like a little bungalow.

Tourist Gary Pine told Sky News: "We saw what we thought was firecrackers going
off so we thought someone was celebrating.

"But you could see then quite quickly the panic that was starting to ensue from
the next resort along from us, which is about 100 yards away, and so then people
started exiting the beach pretty quickly, but only when you can start hearing
bullets around your ears did you start to realise it was something more serious
than firecrackers."

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists including a Briton.

A suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in Sousse in
October 2013, while 21 people lost their lives in an attack in the country
earlier this year.

The country has undergone unprecedented social and political change since the
2011 uprisings and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office says there is a ''high''
threat from terrorism.

Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis. Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn
by the hotels, sandy beaches and culture.

RIU Hotels & Resorts, which owns the Imperial Marhaba, said travel company Tui
operated from the hotel.

A statement on the company's website said: "The Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel in
Port El Kantaoui, Tunisia, has been affected by the attack which occurred this
morning on the hotel's beach.

"We are collecting all the information about the incident and are in permanent
contact with the authorities in order to have full information about what
happened.

"We would like to extend our sincere condolences to the victims and their
relatives, and are awaiting to know more about this incident."

Tui could not confirm whether it ran tours through the hotel.

RIU added that the 366-room 5-star hotel had 565 guests staying there when the
attack happened.

A spokeswoman said: "The majority of the guests are from the UK and other
central European countries. However, it is not possible at the moment to confirm
the nationalities or any other details of the victims."

Martin Skelly, president of the Irish Travel Agents Association (ITAA), issued a
statement saying the industry was deeply saddened at the death of an Irish
woman.

"We are deeply saddened by the news that an Irish woman has lost her life in the
terror attack in Tunisia today," he said.

"A number of ITAA travel agents and tour operators operate holidays to Tunisia
and we will be working closely with them and the Department of Foreign Affairs
to assist anyone currently in Tunisia, or with outstanding bookings for travel
to Tunisia."

A British man said he was hit by a bullet.

The man, who was not named, appeared to be speaking from a hospital.

"Someone firing a gun, and then I looked at my wife and she got up and ran, and
as I turned a bullet just hit me in my arm, and I just ran to the sea," he said,
in the footage shown on BBC News.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                       June 26, 2015 Friday 03:50 PM GMT

Irish woman shot dead in Tunisia terror attack

SECTION: IRISH NEWS

LENGTH: 167 words


An Irish woman is among the 28 victims killed in an attack at a Tunisian resort,
an Irish Government source has said.

At least two gunmen armed with assault rifles opened fire on holidaymakers at a
beach beside two hotels in Sousse.

The Irish victim is reported to be a middle-aged woman from Meath who was shot
on the beach. She was in Tunisia with her husband, who was not with her at the
time of the attack.

One of the attackers has been shot dead by the security forces and a second has
been arrested.

The Department of Foreign Affairs has activated its Consular Crisis Centre and
is asking anyone with concerns to call <strong>01 4180200</strong>.

[media=bbw]2470386[/media]

Brenda Ford Powell from Raheny in Dublin, who is staying in nearby Port el
Khantaoui, said: "The staff told us that up in Sousse, which is about 20 minutes
away, there had been a terrorist attack and about 27 people had been injured or
killed.

"I've taken the advice of the hotel which is to not leave the complex unless we
have to."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2015 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Bradford Telegraph and Argus

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

UPDATE: Bradford woman among British tourists caught up in Tunisia terror
attacks

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 904 words


A Bradford woman has described the mayhem in a Tunisian resort as tourists were
trapped at the centre of terrorist strikes in which 38 have died.

Megan Wilson, from Bradford, posted on the Telegraph & Argus Facebook page: "The
police and the other shooter were having a gun fight in the middle of the
street."

British and Irish tourists are among those who have been killed in the gun
attack at the beach resort of Sousse.

The slaughter happened when a gunman, disguised as a tourist, opened fire on the
busy beach in the town, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK and
Ireland.

Mrs Wilson, who is on holiday in Tunisia with her family, described how events
unfolded at her hotel: "My mother-in-law heard what sounded like fireworks,
which was the gunshots from the beach.

"Me, my mother-in-law and sister-in-law were due to go shopping in Sousse and
had already rung for the taxi. We were then called back into the hotel and told
what had happened.

"Then mayhem started. In the reception everyone was going frantic.

"People have already put their names down to go home, but all flights had been
grounded in and out.

"There was a gun fight on the streets between the other shooter and the police
and the roads have been closed.

"They came in on boats and the third shooter was on the beach and looked like a
tourist. Security has been stepped up on the beach and the hospitals are mayhem.

"The airports are now open, and we can stay on holiday but are not allowed
outside the resort."

The worst such attack in Tunisia's history came on the same day a man was found
decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory
and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked they come after the
so-called Islamic State called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of
calamities for the nonbelievers".

Tunisia's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons,
Tunisians, Germans and Belgians. Thirty six others have been wounded.

MORE TOP STORIES

Bodies covered in blankets were strewn across the beach and medical staff used
sun loungers as stretchers to carry away the dead and injured.

Despite initially believing there was more than one gunman, the Tunisian
authorities later said the killer was thought to be a young student who had not
previously been known to their security services.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach at the Riu Bellevue Park.

His killing spree ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his
body.

British tourist Ellie Makin, from Ripon, who was on holiday with her friend
Debbie Horsfall from Huddersfield, said the gunman was next to them on a sunbed.

She told ITV News: "He was to the right of me because we were on the last sun
bed on the beach. All of a sudden I got up anyway and just happened to look
right and all I saw was a gun and an umbrella being dropped.

"Then he started firing to the right hand side of us. If he had fired to the
left I don't know what would have happened, but we were very lucky."

Ms Horsfall added: "We were on the beach sunbathing, then the next thing we
heard gunfire and Ellie shouted "gun, run" over and over.

"We got up and ran as fast as we could to our hotel reception. We just saw
panic, everyone just got up and fled as soon as we realised it was gunfire."

The pair ran back to their hotel where other residents had gathered in the foyer
but were in danger again when the gunman fired shots into the building.

Ms Makin said. "A guy ran up into the hotel and started shooting again and
everyone fled. He was just below us, if we'd have walked down the stairs we'd
have met him halfway.

"We got split up. I ran to a room upstairs with somebody and their kids and we
hid. We were told to go to our room even though it was ground floor near where
the shooting was, but I refused."

Another tourist Olivia Leathley, 24, was with her boyfriend Mike Jones in her
room at the hotel when she heard "loud bangs" from the beach.

They ran to the lobby of the hotel where they found a woman whose husband had
been shot in the stomach in front of her.

Miss Leathley said: "All she said was that he'd been shot and that he was there
bleeding on the beach and he was just saying, "I love you I love you", and then
his eyes rolled back into his head. But at that point she was dragged away by
people who were trying to keep her safe."

An Irish woman is also understood to be among the 28 victims, an Irish
government source said.

Those killed are more likely to be foreign as the local Muslim population is
less likely to go to the beach during the holy month of Ramadan.

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists including a Briton.

A suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in Sousse in
October 2013, while 21 people lost their lives in an attack in the country
earlier this year.

The country has undergone unprecedented social and political change since the
2011 uprisings and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office says there is a ''high''
threat from terrorism.

Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis. Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn
by the hotels, sandy beaches and culture.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Bradford Telegraph and Argus

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Illegal cigarettes help to pay for terrorist attacks

SECTION: READERS' LETTERS

LENGTH: 221 words


SIR - I write in response to your article, "Warrant is issued for shopkeeper".

Since 2011 I have been conducting research in order to gain intelligence and
understanding of the illicit trade in cigarettes across the UK and the
experience in West Yorkshire is far from unique.

A KPMG report published a few weeks ago shows the UK has seen nearly a 50% rise
in the consumption of counterfeit and contraband cigarettes in 2014, the
second-highest increase across the whole of the EU.

This has been driven by an increase in black market tobacco coming out of
Belarus and Pakistan and it is a growing problem. One in two illegal cigarettes
in the UK now comes from those countries and Poland.

The illegal trade in cigarettes is not a victimless crime. Illicit whites -
unregulated cigarettes made predominately for smuggling - are not brought back
by visitors abroad but smuggled in by the container-load by organised crime and
terrorist groups. By purchasing them people are supporting organised crime.
Every cigarette funds the availability of drugs on our streets, gun crime or
terrorist attacks.

The widespread availability of illicit tobacco has a devastating impact on
communities. It not only undermines legitimate retailers but leads to a knock-on
effect in local crime.

Will O'Reilly c/o Philip Morris Limited, Richmond upon Thames

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Buxton Advertiser

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Tunisia terror attack: Sheffield woman looked terrorist in the face'

BYLINE: George Torr

LENGTH: 697  words


A Sheffield woman has said that she looked a terrorist in the face' after a
hotel she is staying in was attacked by gunmen which has left 37 people dead.

Julie Spafford, from Sheffield, posted on social media about her ordeal which
left blood and bullet holes' scattered through the hotel in the popular tourist
destination of Sousse in Tunisia.

Julie described the horrific terror attack at the hotel.

She said: "We got to our room and armed soldiers came in the room and searched
everywhere.

"It's like watching a film I want to wake up from dreaming.

"The silence is scary, I've never been so frightened I want to come home.

"We are the lucky ones, please God get us home safe."

British authorities and Thompson Holidays are trying now to sort the family a
flight back home.

Julie added: "Unbelievable atmosphere of grief and numbness it just does not
seem real.

"Bullet holes and blood so tragic.

"I cannot believe I looked a terrorist in the face.

"Thank god we got to safety."

The slaughter happened when gunmen exchanged fire with security services on the
busy beach in the town of Sousse, a popular destination for holidaymakers from
the UK and Ireland.

At least five Britons have been confirmed dead in the terrorist attack on a
Tunisian holiday resort, with the death toll expected to rise.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said because the resort is popular with
holidaymakers from the UK "we have to assume that a high proportion of those
killed and injured will have been British".

The country's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons,
Tunisians, Germans and Belgians.

An Irish woman is understood to be among the 37 victims massacred in the gun
attack, an Irish government source said.

Interior Ministry spokesman Mohammed Ali Aroui said: "A terrorist infiltrated
the buildings from the back before opening fire on the residents of the hotel,
including foreigners and Tunisians."

Those killed are more likely to be foreign as the local Muslim population is
less likely to go to the beach during the holy month of Ramadan.

Pictures posted on social media appeared to show the body of a man face down in
the sand with empty sun loungers behind him.

Elizabeth O'Brien, an Irish woman on holiday with her two sons in the resort,
described how she grabbed her children and ran for their lives when they heard
gunfire erupting from one of the hotels.

"We were on the beach, my sons were in the sea and I just got out of the sea.

"It was about 12 o'clock and I just looked up about 500 metres from me and I saw
a (hot air) balloon collapse down, then rapid firing, then I saw two of the
people who were going to go up in the balloon start to run towards me - because
I thought it was fireworks,'' the Dubliner told RTE Radio.

"So, I thought Oh my God, it sounds like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to
my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the
waiters and the security on the beach started saying run, run run!' and we just
ran to our room, which is like a little bungalow.

Tourist Gary Pine told Sky News: "We saw what we thought was firecrackers going
off so we thought someone was celebrating.

"But you could see then quite quickly the panic that was starting to ensue from
the next resort along from us, which is about 100 yards away, and so then people
started exiting the beach pretty quickly, but only when you can start hearing
bullets around your ears did you start to realise it was something more serious
than firecrackers."

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists including a Briton.

A suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in Sousse in
October 2013, while 21 people lost their lives in an attack in the country
earlier this year.

The country has undergone unprecedented social and political change since the
2011 uprisings and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office says there is a 'high''
threat from terrorism.

Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis. Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn
by the hotels, sandy beaches and culture.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NBUA


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Anti-terrorist police to investigate SE France attack

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 103 words


PARIS - French prosecutors said on Friday that the anti-terrorist police branch
was deployed to investigate an attack which left one person dead and several
wounded in southeast France.

A probe has been opened for murder and attempted murder in an organised group in
relation to terrorism, the Paris prosecutor's office said in a statement.

French media said a decapitated head was found at the site, along with a flag
bearing Islamist inscriptions.

A police source said he could not confirm the decapitation but said it seemed as
though this was the case. One suspect had been arrested, a local official told
Agencies.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 8:08 PM GMT

Tunisia terrorist attack: At least five Britons among the more than 37 dead in
Soussa;
North East families have told of their terror after a lone gunman opened fire on
tourists with a machine gun in the Tunisian town of Soussa

BYLINE: By Michael Brown

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 792 words


North East families have told of their ordeal after a terrorist killed at least
37 people - including five Britons - in Tunisia.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has warned that the death toll could rise and
said a "high proportion" of the casualties were expected to be British "because
of the nature of the resort" of Sousse.

Rafik Chelli, one of Tunisia's leading security officials, said the attacker,
from the city of Kairouan, came from the beach hiding his Kalashnikov under an
umbrella before opening fire on tourists. From there he entered the Imperial
Marhaba hotel through the pool area, shooting people as he went.

Wallsend teenager Abbie Douglas, 19, was in the hotel next door and spoke to The
Chronicle of her horror at the events.

"We were sunbathing when we heard a bang but we just thought someone had dropped
something heavy," said Abbie, a Sainsbury's supermarket worker in Heaton,
Newcastle, who was on her first foreign holiday without her parents, with
22-year-old boyfriend Sam Younganan.

"There were a few more bangs but we didn't know what was going on. Someone said
there was a shooting and everyone ran inside."

The pair were sunbathing beside the pool at the Soviva Resort, opposite the
under fire Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba in the Port El Kantaoui neighbourhood,
when they heard the gunfire.

Wearing just a bikini, Abbie and Sam took refuge in the hotel and, along with a
group of fellow tourists, blockaded themselves in.

"People have been struggling to get hold of their families," she added. "I spoke
to my brother and my mam so they know I'm safe."

Speaking in the aftermath of the attack Abbie was still shaking but said things
were beginning to regain some sense of normality in the hotel though no one
could enter or leave the resort.

Read more: Washington tourist caught up in hotel massacre which left 27 dead

Read more: Wallsend teenager's holiday turns into a nightmare

She added: "I can't eat, I can't drink - we're in a neighbouring block and I
don't want to walk back to ours.

"We were supposed to be coming back on Wednesday but we want to come home
tonight, but we're waiting to hear what's happening.

"Jet2 have held a meeting, the army have blockaded the area and no one can get
in or out so we've been told it's low-risk anything else will happen.

"I'm more nervous about the trip back to the airport - it's about an
hour-and-a-half drive.

"I never expected this, it's like something out of a film, it's just horrible."

The worst such attack in Tunisia's history came on the same day a man was found
decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory
and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked they come after the
so-called Islamic State called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of
calamities for the nonbelievers".

Tunisia's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons,
Tunisians, Germans and Belgians. Thirty six others have been wounded.

Those killed are most likely to be foreign as the local Muslim population is
less likely to go to the beach during the holy month of Ramadan.

Read more: What to do if you're due to travel from Newcastle to Tunisia

Eyewitness Gary Pine told Sky News: "My 22-year-old son had just gone back into
the sea after a game of volleyball and then over to my left, about 100 yards
away, we saw what we thought was firecrackers going off so we thought someone
was celebrating.

"But you could see then quite quickly the panic that was starting to ensue from
the next resort along from us, which is about 100 yards away, and so then people
started exiting the beach pretty quickly, but only when you can start hearing
bullets around your ears did you start to realise it was something more serious
than firecrackers."

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists including a Briton.

A suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in Sousse in
October 2013, while 21 people lost their lives in an attack in the country
earlier this year.

The country has undergone unprecedented social and political change since the
2011 uprisings and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office says there is a "high"
threat from terrorism.

Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis. Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn
by the hotels, sandy beaches and culture.

Holiday firms with customers in the resort, including Thomas Cook, Thomson,
First Choice and Sunway, all said they were trying to find out more about what
had happened and support customers.

The UK Foreign Office said it is investigating.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 6:16 PM GMT

Tunisia terrorist attack: What to do if you're due to travel from Newcastle to
Tunisia;
Budget airline easyJet has said Newcastle passengers due to travel to Tunisia in
next 14 days can switch to a different destination

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


Tunisia-bound holidaymakers have been offered free alternative flights in the
wake of the country's terrorist attack.

EasyJet has offered any passengers who were set to travel to the North African
country with them in the next 14 days the chance to switch to another
destination at no cost.

Many other airlines and tour operators have yet to confirm their plans.

"easyJet is closely monitoring the situation in Tunisia and will follow any
advice provided by the relevant authorities," a spokesman for the company said.

"easyJet has taken the decision to allow passengers who are booked to travel to
Monastir within the next 14 days to a free flight transfer on any date and on
any route, or alternatively a flight voucher to the value of their unused flight
sectors.

"Passengers wishing to do so are advised to call easyJet Customer Services
team."

Other concerned travellers have been advised to contact their tour operator for
any potential concerns.

Jet2, which has a package tour from Newcastle at the resort, has advised anyone
with family in Tunisia to contact its hotline.

Live: Updates after gunmen go on a rampage leaving at least 27 dead

A statement issued by the firm said: "We are aware of the incident in Sousse.

"Our in-resort team is currently assessing the situation and assisting our
customers.

"Any concerned relatives should call our customer support team on 0113 387
9501."

Following the attacks on Sousse the Foreign Office has warned against travel to
Tunisia.

A statement said: "Gunmen attacked the Imperial Hotel and Hotel Club Riu
Bellevue at Port El Kantaoui, near Sousse, earlier today. A number of people
have been killed and injured. A British Embassy crisis team is on its way to the
area.

"Some attackers may still be at large. Any British nationals in these hotels or
nearby should remain indoors, and contact their tour operator and the Foreign
Office on the hotline number below."

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advise against all travel to the
Chaambi Mountain National Park area, the Tunisia-Algeria border crossing points
at Ghardimaou, Hazoua and Sakiet Sidi Youssef, the militarized zone south of,
but not including, the towns of El Borma and Dhehiba, within 5km of the Libya
border, and an area from north of Dhehiba up to but not including the Ras Ajdir
border crossing.

Anyone concerned should phone the FCO Hotline number, 0207 008 0000

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 3:50 PM GMT

Tunisia terrorist attack: Wallsend teenager's holiday turns into a nightmare;
Abbie Douglas was on holiday with her boyfriend when terrorist gunmen opened
fire in the resort of Sousse in Tunisia, killing at least 27 people

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 466 words


A Wallsend teenager has spoken of her horror as her first foreign holiday turned
into a nightmare after a terrorist attack in Tunisia.

Abbie Douglas, who works in Sainsbury's in Heaton, was enjoying her foreign
holiday without her parents in Sousse when terrorist gunmen opened fire, killing
at least 27 people.

"We were sunbathing when we heard a bang but we just thought someone had dropped
something heavy" said the 19-year-old, who is on a Jet2 package holiday from
Newcastle Airport with 22-year-old boyfriend Sam Younganan.

"There were a few more [bangs] but we didn't know what was going on.

"Someone said there was a shooting and everyone ran inside."

The pair were sunbathing beside the pool at the Soviva Resort, which was
opposite the under fire Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba in the Port El Kantaoui
neighbourhood, when they heard the gunfire.

Wearing just a bikini Abbie took refuge in the hotel and along with a group of
fellow tourists, she and Sam blockaded themselves in.

"People have been struggling to get hold of their families," she added.

"I spoke to my brother and my mam so they know I'm safe."

Speaking in the aftermath of the attack Abbie was still shaking but said things
were beginning to regain some sense of normality in the hotel though no one
could enter or leave the resort.

Read more: What to do if you're due to travel from Newcastle to Tunisia

Live: Updates after gunmen go on a rampage leaving at least 27 dead

She added: "I can't eat, I can't drink - we're in a neighbouring block and I
don't want to walk back to ours it's a few minutes walk.

"People are in reception now having beers, I want to relax but I don't want to
drink.

"We were supposed to be coming back on Wednesday but we want to come home
tonight, but we're waiting to hear what's happening.

"Jet2 have held a meeting, the army have blockaded the area and no one can get
in or out so we've been told its low-risk anything else will happen.

"I'm more nervous about the trip back to the airport - it's about an
hour-and-a-half drive.

"I never expected this, it's like something out of a film, it's just horrible.

Her brother Jamie Douglas said his family were hugely relieved after hearing
Abbie was safe.

"I spoke to her about 30 minutes ago, it was a big relief," he told the
Chronicle on Friday afternoon.

"She's locked in some random hotel room with some other Brits.

"They were out by the pool, they heard what they now know is a gun shot and
thought nothing of it, then they seen people running past with blood on them.

"They're in a hotel room, they've locked the doors, shut the windows and the
hotel is on lock down.

"I got a text off her saying there was a gun attack, I was bricking myself.

"When I spoke to her she was crying, she'd text and kept texting us.

"I've been looking at flights to try and get her back."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 2:51 PM GMT

Tunisia shootings: Washington tourist caught up in hotel massacre which left 27
dead;
Alan Callaghan from Washington is among those in the town of Sousse where a
terror attack has left 27 people dead

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 263 words


North East holiday makers have been caught up in a major incident which has left
27 dead in Tunisia.

Washington man Alan Callaghan has taken to Twitter to tell of his horror in a
neighbouring hotel to Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba in the Port El Kantaoui
neighbourhood of Sousse which was attacked.

It is owned by Spain's RIU Hotels & Resorts, which has more than 100 hotels in
19 countries.

Mr Callaghan said: "Sitting in room with staff, terrified, but I believe it's
over. Glad we weren't next door, it's terrible."

Across the region friends and family have been left fearing for the safety of
holidaymakers visiting the country and many have taken to social media in a bid
to make contact.

At least 27 people have been killed in an attack on hotels on the Tunisian
coast, with many reported to be British tourists.

Read more: What to do if you're due to travel from Newcastle to Tunisia

Live: Updates after gunmen go on a rampage leaving at least 27 dead

Two gunmen opened fire at a beach in the resort of Sousse. One of the gunmen was
killed and police are pursuing the other, said ministry spokesman Mohammed Ali
Aroui.

Sousse, about 90 miles from Tunis, is a popular resort for Tunisians and
Europeans.

Mr Aroui described the victims as mostly tourists, and local radio said those
killed were mostly German and British.

Spanish prime minister Mariano Rajoy confirmed that one of the two hotels is
owned by a Spanish company.

Mr Rajoy said from Brussels that attacks in Tunisia and France, where man was
decapitated in Grenboble, were both acts of terror but did not provide more
details.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             coventrytelegraph.net

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 5:36 PM GMT

Live: Tunisia beach attack - at least five Britons among more than 30 reported
dead;
Updates as multiple casualties are reported to have been killed at Tunisia's
tourist resort of Sousse following a terror attack

BYLINE: By Daniel Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 6 words


Live updates from Tunisia hotel attack

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBET


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             coventrytelegraph.net

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 1:18 PM GMT

Breaking: Several tourists dead in terror attack on beach in Tunisia;
A gunman was reportedly shot dead in the town of Sousse which is a popular
holiday destination for Britons

BYLINE: By Duncan Gibbons

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 117 words


At least 27 people have been killed in a terror attack on two hotels in a
Tunisian tourist resort.

A gunman was reportedly shot dead in the town of Sousse which is a popular
holiday destination for Britons.

David Schofield, who heard an explosion while sunbathing by the pool, told Sky
News: "We heard people saying there were guns on the beach and people were
shooting on the beach.

"I don't know what's going on. I went to reception and they said the police have
told us to get everyone inside."

The Foreign Office said it was aware of the reports and was investigating.

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBET


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 7:25 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: At least five British tourists killed in beach resort
shootings;
AFTER the attack in Tunisia the UK Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has
announced that at least five Britons are among the dead.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 116 words


AT least five British tourists were killed in the gun attack on a Tunisian beach
resort , Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond has said.

But he warned that the death toll could rise and said a "high proportion" of the
casualties were expected to be British "because of the nature of the resort".

Earlier ITV News, citing hospital sources, reported the death toll of UK
citizens was 13.

Tunisia terror attack: Scottish couple tell of horror and chaos as gunmen opened
fire in resort

Tunisian Health Minister Said Aidi said the death toll from the Tunisia beach
massacre now stood at 37 and said 36 people had been injured.

He said two or three tourists were in a critical condition.

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 6:48 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attacks: Watch horrifying footage as injured tourists are taken
to hospital;
AFTER the attack in Tunisia that killed at least 28 people, footage has emerged
of injured tourists being helped to hospital.

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 468 words


INJURED tourists are being taken to hospital in Tunisia after a terrorist attack
left at least 28 people dead .

Footage of those injured arriving at hospital was filmed and show many still in
their swimsuits and covered in blood.

The slaughter happened when gunmen exchanged fire with security services on the
busy beach, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK and Ireland.

The country's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons,
Tunisians, Germans and Belgians. Thirty six others have been wounded.

A British holidaymaker staying in a hotel close to where the incident happened
told Sky News: "The beach tends to be full up very quickly so it's the usual
story of getting down to lay your towel at half past six to get a decent beach
position, so all of the beach positions were taken.

"It's quite a busy beach."

"There's a lot of people walking up and down, taking in this lovely weather, so
it's a very busy beach, but as I said it became apparent very quick that it was
something more than firecrackers when you could hear bullets whizzing around."

The attackers rushed into the Imperial Marhaba hotel in the latest attack on the
North African country's key tourism industry.

Tunisia terror attack: Scottish couple tell of horror and chaos as gunmen opened
fire in resort

"A terrorist infiltrated the buildings from the back before opening fire on the
residents of the hotel, including foreigners and Tunisians,"a government
spokesman said.

Rafik Chelli, one of Tunisia's leading security officials, told Mosaique FM that
the gunman who was shot by security forces was unknown to authorities.

He said the man, from the city of Kairouan, came from the beach hiding his
Kalashnikov under an umbrella before opening fire on tourists. From there he
entered the hotel through the pool, shooting people as he went.

Since overthrowing its secular dictator in 2011, Tunisia has been plagued by
terror attacks, although they have only recently targeted the vital tourism
sector.

In March, two gunmen attacked the national museum in Tunis killing at least 22
people, all but one of them tourists. A group pledging allegiance to the radical
Islamic State group claimed that attack and promised more in Tunisia.

Tourism is a major part of the Tunisian economy, especially in coastal resorts
like Sousse and it suffered in the aftermath of the 2011 revolution.

With a return to stability and new elections late last year it was slowly
recovering, until the attack on the Bardo museum.

Spanish prime minister Mariano Rajoy confirmed that the Imperial Marhaba is
owned by the Spanish company RIU.

The company's media office said RIU's board of directors was holding an
emergency meeting following the attack. The firm also offered its condolences to
the victims and their families.

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 4:45 PM GMT

Scottish couple caught up in Tunisia terror attack tell of horrifying
experience;
DIANE BOYD and her partner David Fleming were staying in the hotel next door to
the one attacked in Tunisia and have spoke of their terrifying time.

BYLINE: By John Ferguson

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 188 words


DIANE BOYD, from East Kilbride, has told of the horrifying moment she and
partner David Fleming from Coatbridge, North Lanarkshire, became caught up in
the carnage in Tunisia .

She said: "We are staying in the El Mouradi Palm Marina Hotel which is the hotel
next door to the one where this incident happened.

"We were on the beach this morning at around 12pm and we heard this noise and
shot up quickly.

"It sounded like rapid gunfire, that is the only way I could describe it.

"We got into reception and it was a bit chaotic. A few people were upset but
mainly people were just walking around in shock.

"Then we went back to our hotel room and we could see from the balcony the armed
police and police helicopters on the beach."

The couple arrived in Tunisia on Sunday and are there for ten days.

Diane added: "We stayed in our room for about an hour and then went down to
reception to get information, but there's not really any available.

"We've just been watching the news and seeing the details about 27 dead .

"It is such a shame as this is a beautiful country and we have been having such
a great holiday ."

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 2:10 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack LIVE: At least 37 people dead after gunmen rampage at
Brits' holiday hotel;
AT least 37 people have been killed in a terror attack on two hotels in a
Tunisian tourist resort. If you or your family have been caught up in the
horrific attack, please call the Daily Record newsdesk on 0141 309 3251.

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 2 words


Tunisia live.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                dailypost.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 1:50 PM GMT

ANALYSIS: Should Mold Tesco attacker Zack Davies have been tried as a terrorist?
;
With the family of Davies' victim claiming that the machete attack would have
been considered an act of terror had the racial roles been reversed, Executive
Editor of Live News Marc Waddington looks at how the distinction between
attempted murder and terror is defined

BYLINE: By Marc Waddington-NW

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 485 words


At the conclusion of the Zack Davies attempted murder trial, the family of the
man attacked by the far-right fanatic at Tesco in Mold said they believed his
crime was an act of terror.

They made the point that if the roles had been reversed - Davies is white but
his victim Dr Sarandev Bhambra is a Sikh - then the case would have been treated
as a terror case rather than a racially aggravated attempt on his life.

Many people will be asking the same question as to how the decision to prosecute
Davies for attempted murder was reached.

After the case, in response to the suggestion by Mr Bhambra's family, the police
insisted they did not see the crime as terrorism.

Davies' brutal attack on Mr Bhambra was a response to the horrific murder of
Fusilier Lee Rigby by two Islamic extremists. Across all media, the men were
referred to as terrorists.

The same cannot be said of Davies.But why not? He was a member of an extremist
group and surely wanted - and succeeded, albeit temporarily - in creating an
atmosphere of fear and terror. He was motivated by hatred and ideology - just
like a terrorist.

He carried out an isolated, vigilante attack of a barbaric kind - just like a
terrorist.

But an act of terror is one carried out against the state. The attack on
Fusilier Rigby, who was a serving soldier, could be called an act of terror
because he was an employee of the state, attacked for that very reason.

Under the Terrorism Act of 2000, an act of terror is one where "the use or
threat is designed to influence the government [or an international governmental
organisation] or to intimidate the public or a section of the public."There is
no doubt both the Rigby case and the attempt by Zack Davies to kill Mr Bhambra
intimidated the public, and they were both overtly political acts.

Zack Davies launched a machete attack on a dentist in Tesco

Davies "endangered a person's life", which is also a fundament of a terrorist
act.

Ultimately, it is a matter of interpretation, and one that is largely in the
hands of politicians. The list of proscribed organisations that are defined as
terrorist groups does not include the small but repugnant National Action of
which Zack Davies was a member, but is packed with Islamic organisations.

With politicians increasingly warning us that acts of terrorism are moving away
from large-scale organised bombings and more towards sporadic, chaotic rampages
by small groups - as seen tragically today in France and Tunisia - it is little
wonder some people question why Zack Davies' attack was not treated as
terrorism.

He has not yet been sentenced, but the powers are available to the courts to put
him away indefinitely. One of Lee Rigby's killers will never, ever be released.

Whether a terrorist or someone who attempted to carry out a murder, Davies will
be going to prison for a long time, and the public will be protected from him.

That, ultimately, is what matters the most.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDPNM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       June 26, 2015 Friday 12:30 PM GMT

BREAKING: 27 dead in Tunisia terror attack on Sousse beach 'mostly Brits and
Germans'

BYLINE: Tom Rawle

LENGTH: 736 words


AT least 27 people have been killed as gunman targeted a popular British tourist
resort in Tunisia.

Dozens of others have been injured in the massacre as two gunmen stormed a beach
in the town of Sousse.

According to local reports, those killed are mostly British and German.

Terrified hotel guests described how panic ensued when machine guns were heard
being fired.

One guest claimed she heard guests talking about people being shot in their
sunbeds.

Frightened Brit Susan Ricketts - barricaded in her hotel room on the strip with
her sister - said: "We were beside the beach when we heard machine-gun fire.

"The beach was cleared. There were shouts of 'get off the beach, get off the
beach'.

"The machine-gun went off a few times. And after that what sounded like an
explosion next."

Ms Ricketts described how they were told "guests were shot on their sunbeds",
telling Sky News: "We don't know if it's true but it's really scary."

"It's all hotels up here. We're not sure what's really happening."

Harrowing images began to emerge on social media of apparent dead bodies lying
face down in the sand.

Other snaps show armed police gathering outside a number of hotels including the
five star Imperial Marhaba.

Two gunmen are believed to have gunned down holidaymakers with AK47s as they
made their way up the busy beach.

Police confirmed 19 people from six different nationalities have been killed in
total and a number of others seriously injured.

Tunisian security sources said one gunman was killed in a shootout with police.

"One attacker opened fire with a Kalashnikov on tourists and Tunisians on the
beach of the hotel," said a hotel worker at the site.

"It was just one attacker. He was a young guy dressed in shorts like he was a
tourist himself."

A manhunt is ongoing as police search for th second attacker.

Susan Ricketts

Describing the moment an explosion went off, Brit tourist David Schofield said:
"Everyone started running towards the hotel.

"As we got into the hotel, we heard quite a large explosion.

"People running around the hotel, nobody has really been told what to do.

"We heard people saying there were guns on the beach."

Another Brit tourist described the moment bullets brushed him and his family on
the beach.

Gary Pine said: "We thought what was firecrackers going off but we saw the panic
ensue.

"Only when there was bullets whizzing around your ear you realised it was a bit
more than firecrackers."

As he fled back to the hotel, he said there was a loud explosion.

"There was a situation developing,"  Mr Pine added.

"Do we leave do we stay? Where do we go? What do we do?"

It was the second major attack in Tunisia country this year, and took place
during the holy Muslim month of Ramadan.

The North African country has been on high alert since March when Islamist
militant gunmen gunned down foreign tourits at the Bardo museum in Tunis.

Aware of reports of incident in #Tunisia & urgently looking into them. We stand
ready to provide consular assistance to British Nationals.

- Foreign Office June 26, 2015

The town of Sousse is about 87 miles south of the capital, Tunis.

Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn by the hotels, sandy
beaches and culture.

Popular travel operator Thomson, who send thousands of Brits to Tunisia each
year, said: "We are aware of a suspected terrorist incident in Tunisia.

"We are working closely with our teams in Tunisia and the relevant authorities
to determine exactly what has happened and provide assistance to those affected.

"More information will be released as it becomes available."

The incident comes just hours after a terror attack in Grenoble, France.

It is not believed the two attacks are linked.

The British Government's emergency Cobra committee will meet this afternoon
following terror attacks in France and Tunisia.

David Cameron said as he offered "our solidarity in fighting this evil of
terrorism".

At least 16 people were killed in a mosque in Kuwait in what was a third
terrorist attack on Friday.

A blast hit at the Imam Sadiq Mosque in al-Sawaber during Friday prayers.

An Islamic State affiliated group said it was behind the attack.

Related articles Boston Marathon bomber apologises to victims as he is sentenced
to death Terrorists carrying ISIS flag attack factory leaving severed head stuck
on fence Britain's youngest terror suspect accused of 'Lee Rigby-style Anzac Day
plot'

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       June 26, 2015 Friday 10:10 AM GMT

ISIS terrorist attacks factory leaving man's severed head stuck on fence

BYLINE: Sophie Alexander

LENGTH: 970 words


A MAN carrying a black Islamic State flag rammed a factory in France and left a
severed head covered in Arabic inscriptions stuck on the gates.

The Air Products factory in St-Quentin-Fallavier, near Lyon, in south-east
France, produces liquid gas.

The terrorist, a driver for local delivery company named as Yassin Salhi, may
have been looking to pull off a mass-casualty terror spectacle due to the huge
amount of highly-flammable gas in the industrial area.

The French Prosecutor Francois Molins said at 9.28am a delivery van pressed the
bell and managed to get into the factory compound because it was recognised by
workers and let in.

He said it is yet to be established whether Salhi or his 55-year-old boss was
driving.

The van rammed into an open building, causing a loud explosion and virtually
destroying the vehicle, at 9.36am.

Salhi, 35, was detained by a brave unarmed firefighter while trying to turn on
cannisters of acetone, the prosecutor said.

At the back of the van, the decapitated head of Salhi's boss - reportedly
covered in Arabic inscriptions - was found several feet from his body spiked on
a fence next to an two Islamist flags.

The French Prosecutor said a knife was recovered near the van and it is not
clear whether the 55-year-old's head was cut off before or after death.

The boss' name has not yet been released but President Hollande said in a press
conference the victim had been killed "in a cowardly manner".

President Hollande said there was no link apart from terrorism between today's
attack at the Air Products factory and today's shooting of foreigners at a
resort in Tunisia.

Salhi lives in a suburb of nearby Lyon with his wife and three kids - the same
city where his employer was based.

A woman claiming to be the Salhi's wife has been interviewed by France's Europe
1 network.

The presenter broke the news to her that her husband was the prime suspect in
the attack.

Salhi's wife described her husband as a man a world away from the brutal
terrorist involved in this morning's murder and potential attempted suicide bid.

She said: "I know him as my husband. We have a normal family life. He leaves for
work, he comes home.

"We are normal Muslims. We're observing Ramadan. We have three kids and a normal
family life. I don't understand what's going on."

Wife of suspect

Salhi, his wife, his sister and a fourth person have been detained by police
following a raid on his family's apartment.

Local press say the fourth man is believed to have driven a car back and forth
outside the factory in the hours before the attack.

There are fears this may have been a small-scale distraction while terrorists
wreak further havoc in the country.

Foreign intelligence services were first made aware of Salhi from 2006. He was
flagged for ties to Islamic extremists but surveillance was dropped in 2008.

According to security sources there were "signals in recent weeks pointing to
red for an attack of this nature occurring in the national territory".

Salhi is not originally from the Isere region where St-Quentin-Fallavier lies
but from the Doubs region in eastern France bordering Switzerland.

The French Prosecutor said Salhi had no criminal record but had "a link" to
Salafist movement, an extreme form of the Sunni branch of Islam.

Air Products is a US-owned chemical company based in Pennsylvania and has a
regional HQ in Walton-on-Thames in Surrey.

The company said in a statement: "We can confirm that an attack occurred at our
facility in L'Isle-d'Abeau, France this morning.

"We are deeply saddened by the loss of life and want to express our sympathies
to the family of the victim of this unspeakable tragedy.

"Emergency services are on site and have contained the situation.

"All individuals working at the site have been evacuated. The site is secure.

"Our crisis and emergency response teams have been activated and are working
closely with all relevant authorities.

"Security has been increased at locations around the world as a precautionary
measure."

Mr Hollande has stepped up security in "sensitive" sites in Paris and Marseille
with 10,000 troops standing watch.

"We will never give in to fear, ever" he said.

"We will react with action, prevention and deterrents."

President of the Rhone-Alpes region, Jean-Jack Queyranne, said: "I feel a sense
of horror at the barbarism that just happened this morning in Isere at the heart
of our region.

"I want to express my solidarity with the victims and their families."

brightcove.createExperiences;

Memories are still raw from the terror attack in Paris in January on the offices
of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo which left 12 people dead and the attack on
the Jewish supermarket which killed five.

British Prime Minister David Cameron has expressed his sympathies over the
"appalling" attack - he is in Brussels with Mr Hollande for an EU summit.

"The President discovered the first images of the attack on a rolling news
channels together with Angela Merkel he was visibly shocked," said a source in
Hollande's entourage.

A crisis unit has been established in Bourgoin-Jallieu Hospital to deal with the
casualties and support witnesses of the gruesome beheading.

Only hours after the French terrorist attack 36 tourists on a popular beach spot
in Tunisia were murdered by a gunman.

In a third terror attack extremists targeted a mosque in Kuwait, killing 10.

ISIS followers on Twitter have been referencing a chilling threat made by ISIS
spokesman Abu Muhammad al-Adnani on Tuesday.

He gave a call to arms to wage jihadi during Ramadan.

"No acts of worship are equal to jihad. And jihad in Ramadan is not matched by
jihad in other months," he warned.

Ramadan began on June 18 and will end on July 17.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 26, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

'If my brother was white this would be called a terror attack'

BYLINE: Nicola Harley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 481 words


THE family of a dentist who was attacked with a machete in a "Lee Rigby revenge
assault" say it would have been classed as an act of "terrorism" if he was
white.

Zack Davies struck Dr Sarandev Bhambra in the head with a machete in a
supermarket while shouting "white power" and "this is for Lee Rigby".

Davies has been found guilty of attempted murder following the attack in Mold,
Wales, in January which left Dr Bhambra, 24, with "life-changing" injuries.

His brother, DrTarlochan Singh Bhambra said: "Sarandev was singled out because
of the colour of his skin. Had the racial disposition of this case been reversed
this would be reported as an act of terror with a wider media coverage.

"Given the racial and political motivation, this should be defined as an act of
terrorism.

"By his own admission Zack Davies had extreme neo-Nazi views and is a member of
a white supremacist organisation.

"Ethnic minorities have and continue to contribute positively to the
multicultural Britain of 2015. Sikhs have sacri-ficed their lives in both world
wars to facilitate the freedom that Britain enjoys today."

Former soldier Peter Fuller managed to stop the attack, saving Dr Bhambra's
life.

Dr Tarlochan Singh Bhambra added: "We are indebted and will be forever grateful
to Mr Peter Fuller who risked his own safety to save Sarandev."

Prosecutors said white supremacist material was found at Davies' home.

Davies told police he belonged to the neo-Nazi group National Action, and told
the court he was fascinated and inspired by the masked militant known as "Jihadi
John", seen in Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant group murder videos.

A jury at Mold Crown Court found 26-year-old Davies guilty. He will be sentenced
in September after undergoing psychiatric assessment.

Gareth Preston of the Crown Prosecution Service Wales said Davies was "a
dangerous young man whose distorted and racist views led him to commit a
terrifying act of violence."

Detective Chief Inspector Alun Oldfield said the racially motivated attack was
an "embarrassment and shock" for the people of Mold but not typical.

He said he hoped Dr Bhambra would one day return to work in Mold.

"Zack Davies is clearly a dangerous individual and this, I am sure, will be
clearly reflected in the sentence," he said.

Asked if he considered it an act of terrorism, DCI Oldfield said: "In our view
this was an attempted murder, racially motivated."

Davies claimed he intended to attack his mother's boyfriend, but when he failed
to find him he followed Dr Bhandra into the supermarket where he assaulted him
with a hammer and a machete, almost severing his left hand with a machete blow.

Davies admitted he had selected Dr Bhambra solely because of the colour of his
skin and Asian appearance.

In court Davies apologised to the family of Lee Rigby for dragging his name into
the case and also to Dr Bhambra who he agreed was simply an innocent victim.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Zack Davies, the attacker, told police that he belonged to a neo-Nazi
groupDr Sarandev Bhambra following the attack, which left him with
'life-changing injuries'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

UPDATE: Britons feared among 27 dead in terror attack at hotel in Tunisian
resort

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 380 words


British tourists are feared to be among the 27 people killed in a terrorist
attack at a holiday resort in Tunisia, according to local radio reports.

Tunisian interior ministry spokesman Ali Aroui described the victims as mostly
tourists but did not give any nationalities, but local radio reports said those
killed in the resort of Sousse were mostly German and British.

The atrocity, along with a terror attack in France in which a man was
decapitated, prompted Prime Minister David Cameron to announce that the
Government's emergency Cobra committee would meet to discuss the situation.

Speaking at the conclusion of the European Council summit in Brussels, Mr
Cameron said he had spoken to French president Francois Hollande to offer his
support following the attack in Grenoble and would also speak to the Tunisian
government following the attack there to offer "our solidarity in fighting this
evil of terrorism".

He said: "This is a threat that faces all of us. These events have taken place
today in Tunisia and in France but they can happen anywhere. We all face this
threat.

"There will be a ministerially-chaired Cobra meeting, the Government's emergency
committee, later on this afternoon to make sure we are doing everything we can
to co-operate and co-ordinate with other countries and any information that we
have we share with them in fighting this threat."

He added: "We have got to do all we can to help. That means co-operating on
counter-terrorism, building our capacity on counter-terrorism, it means dealing
with the threat at source whether that is Isil in Syria and Iraq or whether it
is other extremist groups around the world.

"Perhaps more important than anything is poisonous radical narrative that is
turning so many young minds and we have to combat it with everything we have."

The Prime Minister said that the West must stop "the poisoning of ... young
minds" by Islamic State (IS) and other extremists.

"The people who do these things, they sometimes claim they do it in the name of
Islam. They don't. Islam is a religion of peace.

"They do it in the name of a twisted and perverted ideology that we have to
confront with everything that we have.

"We must stop the poisoning of these young minds in our country, in other
European countries, and around the world."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Dorset Echo

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

At least 27 people killed in terror attack on Tunisian resort

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 611 words


At least 27 people have been killed in a terror attack on two hotels in a
Tunisian tourist resort.

One gunman was killed and another is being pursued in the town of Sousse, a
popular holiday destination for Britons.

Photographs have been posted on Instagram showing a man on the beach wearing
blue shorts lying face down in the sand with what looks like blood in the area
around his head.

Empty sun loungers can be seen behind him and there does not appear to be anyone
else near him.

Elizabeth O'Brien, an Irish woman on holiday with her two sons in the resort,
described how she grabbed her children and ran for their lives when they heard
gunfire erupting from one of the hotels.

"We were on the beach, my sons were in the sea and I just got out of the sea. It
was about 12 o'clock and I just looked up about 500 metres from me and I saw a
(hot air) balloon collapse down, then rapid firing, then I saw two of the people
who were going to go up in the balloon start to run towards me - because I
thought it was fireworks," the Dubliner told RTE Radio.

"So, I thought 'oh my God, it sounds like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to
my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the
waiters and the security on the beach started saying 'run, run run!' and we just
ran to our room, which is like a little bungalow.

"So we are actually trapped in our room."

Ms O'Brien said the Irish consul in Madrid, Spain, called her to say it was a
terrorist attack in the hotel next door and told her to stay where she was.

"My travel agent told me to go to the reception to speak to the rep, but I'm
afraid. I'm stuck in the room with my two sons, not knowing what's going on,"
she said.

The Foreign Office said it is aware of the reports and was investigating.

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists.

Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis. Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn
by the hotels, sandy beaches and culture.

Thomas Cook, which has holidaymakers in the resort, said: "Thomas Cook has been
advised of an incident that occurred earlier today in Sousse, Tunisia.

"At this time, details are not clear as to which property(ies) have been
affected, with conflicting news reports.

"We are currently gathering information and will provide an update as soon as
possible. Our teams on the ground are offering every support to our customers
and their families in the area.

"We will continue to monitor the situation, working closely with the FCO and
local authorities."

British holidaymaker Gary Pine is staying in the El Mouradi Palm Marina hotel
close to where the incident happened.

Situated at the back of the hotel, near the pool area, he told Sky News by phone
that he could no longer hear any noise and said the hotel was "very, very quiet"
at that stage, but said it would have been very busy.

"The beach tends to be full up very quickly so it's the usual story of getting
down to lay your towel at half past six to get a decent beach position, so all
of the beach positions were taken," he said.

Mr Pine said that at the front of his hotel alone there would have been "several
hundred" people, and he said he could see every resort along and there would
have been "several hundred" more outside the others.

"So it's quite a busy beach.

"There's a lot of people walking up and down, taking in this lovely weather, so
it's a very busy beach, but as I said it became apparent very quick that it was
something more than firecrackers when you could hear bullets whizzing around,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 5:42 PM GMT

Tunisia Terror Attack: Huddersfield honeymoon couple and son locked safe in
hotel;
Couple, who were married at Briar Court Hotel last month, were due to spend
another week in the resort

BYLINE: By Neil Atkinson

LENGTH: 217 words


A Huddersfield couple on honeymoon in Tunisia with their young son were locked
in a hotel.

Lee and Jessica Goldspink, of Cowlersley, are staying in Sousse with their
two-year-old son Lennon and were among many guests locked in a hotel as news of
the terror attack broke.

The pair, who married at Briar Court Hotel last month, are hoping to fly home as
soon as possible.

They spoke to Jessica's sister, Sophie, of Slaithwaite, and told her how armed
guards and helicopters swamped the hotel this afternoon.

"Jessica said they had been by the pool when staff came and told people to get
back into the hotel.

"They didn't know what was happening but then saw it on the news. Their hotel is
about three miles from where it happened but there are guards everywhere, which
makes them feel safer.

"They have been told to stay in their room with the curtains closed but no-one
seems to know how and when they will be able to get out".

Lee, 30, a keen Huddersfield Town fan, and Jessica, 24, flew to Tunisia on
Thursday and were due to spend another week at the resort.

Sophie added: "The reassuring thing is we know they are safe. Their little boy
is with them, although Lee does have another son at home."They are hoping to
find out soon when they can fly back here and we just want them home"

Terrorist attack in Tunisia

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 4:34 PM GMT

Tunisia Terrorist Attack: Phone call home from woman caught up in Tunisian
terror attack;
Debbie Horsfall stranded in hotel under tight security

BYLINE: By Neil Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 287 words


Terrorist attack in Tunisia

Holidaymaker Debbie Horsfall is holed up in a hotel surrounded by armed guards
after the Tunisia terror attack on a nearby beach.

And she was able to reassure her mum Angela that she is fine, despite the
terrifying shootout today in the holiday resort of Sousse.

Debbie, 22, of Huddersfield, said: "We just want to come home".

She told her mother than both she and her friend, Ellie Makin, of Ripon, are
safe after the pair ran to safety from the beach as gunmen exchanged fire.

The pair got separated but made it back to the hotel where both are staying.

The friends, who met through tennis, are now waiting to be taken to the airport
for a flight home.

Debbie works at a receptionist at Thongsbridge Tennis and Fitness Centre and
pays for the club's tennis team, and flew out for the week-long break to Tunisia
last Wednesday.

Her mum, who also works at the centre, said: "She sounded pretty shaken when I
first spoke to her but she is now more calm.

"She and Ellie were on sunbeds on the beach when it all started.

"They were on the other side of the sand-dunes from the hotel when Ellie noticed
a man with a gun and heard all the gunfire. They started running but got split
up but both made it back to the hotel.

"There were lots of other guests racing back to the hotel and people just locked
themselves in any room that was available.

"Debbie told me there was a woman running with them screaming that she had lost
her children.

"The security forces have brought in a lot of armed guards to surround the hotel
and she feels a lot safer, but they have been told they cannot go to the airport
until they know it is completely safe.

"It was very scary to hear what had happened and now we just want her back".

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 3:38 PM GMT

Tunisia Terrorist Attack: Huddersfield holidaymaker Debbie Horsfall witnesses
shooting tragedy in Tunisia;
27 killed in holiday resort

BYLINE: By Neil Atkinson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 433 words


A Huddersfield holidaymaker was caught up in a bloody shooting in Tunisia.

Debbie Horsfall was on a beach as gunmen mowed down 27 people.

Now she has said: "We just want to go home".

She and other British tourists have been describing the attack on a beach in the
popular resort town of Sousse.

At least 27 people have been killed, and the UK Foreign Office says it is
"urgently investigating" whether any are British.

At least one gunman has been shot dead and another is being pursued, officials
say.

British tourists are feared dead in the gun attack.

The gunmen exchanged fire with security services on the busy beach in the town
of Sousse, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK and Ireland.

One of the attackers was killed, another fled with the gunfire continuing.

Interior Ministry spokesman Mohammed Ali Aroui said: "A terrorist infiltrated
the buildings from the back before opening fire on the residents of the hotel,
including foreigners and Tunisians."

Local radio reported that most of those caught up in the slaughter were British
or German. Those killed are most likely to be foreign as the local Muslim
population is less likely to go to the beach during the holy month of Ramadan.

Huddersfield holidaymaker Debbie Horsfall witnesses shooting tragedy in Tunisia

Debbie was on the beach with her friend when the shooting began.

"My friend stood up and saw a man with the gun firing.

"We got up and ran, but we didn't know where to go.

"We have only been here two days - we came on Wednesday. We went to back to our
room but we didn't feel safe.

"We just want to go home - we packed right away. We booked our holiday with
Thomson. They said there are no flights at the moment until the airport is safe.

"At the moment the hotel and beach are on lockdown."

Gary Pine, from Bristol, said he heard "bullets whizzing around us" and shots
fired at the Port El Kantaoui resort.

Mr Pine, who is on holiday with his wife and son at the El Mouradi Palm Marina
hotel, said he had been on the beach with his family about noon when he heard a
sound he initially thought was firecrackers.

"You could see within seconds of the noise breaking out that people started to
exit the beach very, very quickly.

"It seemed to be happening 150 yards to our left. The people in the direct
vicinity of the incident were breaking in all kinds of different directions.

"There was confusion. No-one knew what seemed to be breaking out. My wife was
shouting to my son to get out the sea, and as he ran up the beach he said 'I
just saw someone get shot'."

He also said that he heard an explosion on an adjacent hotel complex.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 8:12 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Brit teen who survived massacre saw family gunned down
and killed

BYLINE: Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 385 words


A BRITISH teenager survived the Tunisia terror attack but 'saw' their parents
and grandmother slaughtered by gunman today.

REUTERS

37 people have been killed in the Tunisian terror massacre

The 16-year-old's horrors were reported by a local radio station following the
Islamic State inspired terror attack on two popular hotels in Sousse on the
Mediterranean coast.

The teen is reportedly being treated for their injuries at a local hospital.

At least five Britons are said to among the 37 people killed when a gunman,
posing as a fellow tourist carrying an umbrella, stormed a beach at two hotels
popular with UK tourists in the country.

Sunbathing holidaymakers were shot down in a hail of bullets in the latest
ISIS-linked terror attack, which has also left 36 wounded.

WALES NEWS

Matthew James and his fiancee Sarah Wilson  Related articles  French factory
attack: Man BEHEADED by Islamic State extremists   Tunisia terror attack: At
least FIVE British tourists among 37...

Foreign Secretary Phillip Hammond warned the death toll of Britons could rise.

He said: "At least five Britons have been killed in this incident.

"I should warn that we must expect more reports of fatalities."

Mr Hammond also revealed that the Metropolitan Police planned to step up
security at major landmark events taking place this weekend, including Pride
London and Armed Forces Day.

Among the other harrowing stories coming out from the African state, Matthew
James was shot three times as he used his body to protect his fiancee Sarah
Wilson as she was attacked by the raging gunman.

Ellie Makin, from Ripon who is on holiday with her friend Debbie Horsfall from
Huddersfield, says she is "lucky" to be alive.

She told ITV News: "He was to the right of me because we were on the last sun
bed on the beach. All of a sudden I got up anyway and just happened to look
right and all I saw was a gun and an umbrella being dropped.

"Then he started firing to the right hand side of us. If he fired to the left I
don't know what would have happened, but we were very lucky."

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: At least FIVE British tourists among 37
killed in 'ISIS shooting' UK on terror red alert for weekend's Armed Forces Day
events and Pride London Tunisia terror attack: 'The world seemed to stop for a
minute', say British tourists

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 6:52 PM GMT

Kuwait terror attack: ISIS claim responsibility for deadly explosion at mosque

BYLINE: Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 354 words


ISLAMIC STATE militants have claimed responsibility for a suicide bombing in one
of the largest Shiite mosques in Kuwait City.

EPA

A man in a blood-soaked dishdasha following the deadly blast

At least 25 people have been killed and more than 200 wounded in the terror
attack at the Imam Sadiq mosque in the neighbourhood of al-Sawabir, which
appeared to be a deliberate attempt to incite strife between Shiites and Sunnis.

It comes on the same day terrorists attacked a holiday resort in Tunisia and a
US factory in France, leaving a bloody toll on three continents and prompting
new concerns about the spreading influence of jihadists.

EPA

Worshippers gather after the deadly explosion  Related articles  French factory
attack: Man BEHEADED by Islamic State extremists   Tunisia terrorist attack:
Briton used body as human shield to...

In a post on a Twitter account, known to belong to ISIS, a member wrote the
attack had been carried out by a suicide bomber wearing an explosive belt.

The attack was claimed by an ISIS affiliate calling itself the Najd Province -
the same group that claimed a pair of bombing attacks on Shia mosques in Saudi
Arabia.

The terror group described the suicide bomber involved in the attack during
worshippers Friday prayers, "one of the knights of the Sunni people".

Eyewitness Hassan al-Haddad, 21, was at the mosque at the time of the explosion.

He said: "We couldn't see anything, so we went straight to the wounded and tried
to carry them out. We left the dead."

Abdullah al-Saffar, who was at the mosque, said terrorists struck just after
midday Friday prayers, which are typically the most crowded of the week.

Attendance will also rise due to the holy Muslim month of Ramadan, which started
last week.

ISIS often regards Shia Muslims as heretics and derogatively refers to them as
"rafideen" or "rejectionists".

REUTERS

The inside of the ruined mosque  Related articles Could TURKEY be next? ISIS
terror threat to MILLIONS of holidaymakers ISIS beheads 12 men from rival
al-Qaeda as 'civil war' rages between terror groups ISIS extremists butcher at
least 145 civilians - a day after they re-entered

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               gazettelive.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 5:18 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attacks: Stockton couple locked down in Sousse hotel;
Paul Thwaites found out about the attack from his panic-stricken daughter ::
Hotel he and his partner are in has been secured

BYLINE: By Sarah Dale

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 294 words


A Stockton couple are in lockdown in a Tunisian hotel following the horrific
terrorist attack which has killed at least 28 people.

Paul Thwaites and his partner are holidaying in Sousse and were sunbathing
around the pool at their hotel when the attack happened at two hotels nearby.

Within hours of the attack, holidaymakers from the targeted hotels were brought
to the Hotel Tour Khalef, where Mr Thwaites and his partner are staying, by the
busload.

And Mr Thwaites said he didn't know about the attack until his panic-stricken
family rang him.

"I received a call from my daughter telling us about it," said Mr Thwaites, a
manager.

"We've gone into lockdown, bus loads are arriving from other hotels," said the
50-year-old dad.

"Some of them are coming from the hotel where it happened.

"They had been on a trip so had missed it. I got a round of drinks in for them.

"My missus is a bit worried about staying here but we're only here until Sunday
anyway so we're going to try and enjoy what's left of our holiday."

At least 28 people - including several British - have been killed in the attack
on a beach near two tourist hotels - Riu Imperial Marhaba and the El Mouradi
Palm Marina - in the Tunisian resort town of Sousse, according to the interior
ministry.

Officials say one gunman has been shot dead and local media have reported that a
second attacker has been arrested.

Sousse is a popular tourist destination in Tunisia.

Tunisia has been on high alert since March when militants killed 22 people,
mainly foreign tourists, in an attack on a museum in the capital Tunis.

Local media reports say 36 people have been injured in the attack.

Anyone concerned about family or friends in Tunisia can ring the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office dedicated helpline on 0207 0080000.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEGM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 9:06 PM GMT

Martin O'Malley brings up Benghazi as he makes foreign policy pitch;
Democratic presidential candidate makes no direct criticism of Hillary
Clinton2012 Libya terror attack shows there is 'no substitute' for human
intelligence

BYLINE: Ben Jacobs in Washington

SECTION: US NEWS

LENGTH: 689 words


Related: Benghazi panel accused of vendetta against Clinton after latest email
release

On Friday, Martin O'Malley finally mentioned "Benghazi".

In a wide-ranging Washington speech in which the presidential hopeful outlined
his foreign policy views, O'Malley became the first Democratic candidate to
reference the controversial 2012 terrorist attack on a US facility in Benghazi,
Libya, in which four Americans died.

The attack has long been a rallying cry for Republican criticism of former
secretary of state Hillary Clinton. An investigation into the Obama
administration's response by congressional Republicans has long been a thorn in
Clinton's side.

O'Malley did not engage at all in the myriad controversies around the Benghazi
attack. Instead, he described how he thought the US should have approached the
turbulent situation in Libya in the aftermath of the fall of the Gaddafi regime
and the legacy of the US ambassador, Chris Stevens.

"We must recognize that there are real lessons to be learned from the tragedy in
Benghazi," O'Malley said. "Namely, we need to know in advance who is likely to
take power - or vie for it - once a dictator is toppled.

"Twitter and Facebook are no substitute for personal relationships and human
intelligence. We must recruit and retain a new generation of talented American
diplomats. And we must give them the tools to identify and engage with a new
generation of leaders from different walks of life - often in hostile
environments where we lack historic ties, where we lack relationships."

O'Malley then said: "That was the work that Ambassador Chris Stevens was about.
He gave his life reaching out to those emerging from the rubble of Gaddafi's
dictatorship."

The former Maryland governor then quoted Stevens's father, who said that his son
died "doing what he loved most - working to build bridges of understanding and
mutual respect between the people of the United States and the people of the
Middle East".

The candidate's top foreign policy adviser, Doug Wilson, emphasized after the
speech that O'Malley was not trying to reference the controversy around the
attack.

"This was not a speech about Hillary Clinton and the State Department," said
Wilson. Instead, he said, the former Maryland governor "wanted to develop a
framework here so people would have standards about how he would govern if he
became president".

The speech was deep on policy details as O'Malley called for "a new National
Security Act" and pushed for getting the national guard involved in cyber
defense, major increases in foreign aid and for the US to be 100% fuelled by
clean energy by 2050.

The former Maryland governor also signalled his support for the Obama
administration's nuclear talks with Iran by noting: "I believe negotiations are
the best way to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon ... the best way
to avoid even greater conflict in the region ... and the best way to stop
widespread nuclear proliferation across the Middle East."

O'Malley went on to say: "If we reach a verifiable, enforceable agreement that
cuts off Iran's multiple pathways to a weapon - and its ability to sprint to a
bomb -Congress would be wise to support it."

O'Malley was relatively cautious about the use of American force abroad. He
panned the Iraq war as "one of the most tragic, deceitful and costly blunders in
US history" and warned of "mission creep" in combating the "murderous thugs" of
Isis.

Instead, O'Malley called for "a foreign policy of engagement and collaboration".
In fact, the veiled criticism of Clinton in his mention of Benghazi seemed far
more about how the secretary of state managed the situation after the collapse
of the Gaddafi regime than any of the operational details in the response to the
11 September 2012 attack.

O'Malley is polling at a mere 2% in early states such as Iowa and New Hampshire
and has an uphill battle to win the nomination. But on Friday, he did
differentiate himself from his Democratic rivals. He has a distinct foreign
policy philosophy and he is not afraid to mention Benghazi.

The question is, will that be enough to catapult the former Maryland governor in
the polls?

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 7:18 PM GMT

Terror attacks in Kuwait, France and Tunisia echo Isis methods;
The targets - Shia Muslims, French workers and western tourists in Tunisia - as
well as the alleged culprits all share similarities with past attacks

BYLINE: Jason Burke

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 592 words


Three different attacks, one overall suspect. The wave of killing on Friday will
undoubtedly be attributed to Islamic State, which has already reportedly claimed
responsibility for one amongst them, with strong indications of a role in the
others.

Each attack hit a different target in a different way, and underlines the varied
nature of a constantly evolving threat.

One involved Muslims killing Muslims in the Middle East itself: a bomb in a Shia
mosque in Kuwait, a conservative Gulf state with a Sunni Muslim majority. This
is part of the horrendous sectarian violence which has increasingly convulsed
the region over the last five years and shows no sign of abating.

Outright war against Shias - seen as apostates by Islamic State - is a core aim
of the terrorist organisation which goes back to its origins in Iraq a decade or
more ago. This is a reminder that the vast proportion of casualties of terrorism
are Muslims killed by co-religionists.

The second targeted western tourists in Tunisia. Hotels and holidaymakers have
been a frequent target in recent years. Western tourists are both an obvious and
vulnerable presence in the Islamic world. An attack on a hotel will attract
global attention, mark a group's influence and badly damage the local tourist
industry.

Historically such attacks have undermined local support but it seems unlikely
Friday's attackers would have been bothered by this. The prime suspects for the
Sousse attack are militants belonging to fragmented local groups, possibly based
in neighbouring Libya and loyal to Isis.

Third was the attackon a US-owned gas cylinder plant in south-east France. The
culprit in this strike appears to have worked for the victim's company, but the
French have nevertheless launched a terror investigation. He also appears to fit
a profile that has become well established in recent years: a French male aged
between 22 and 35 who was either born overseas before coming to France or whose
parents migrated from Algeria or Morocco.

Some of these attackers have had links to overseas groups; while others have
been closer to the classic idea of "lone wolves". But all have been steeped in a
broader environment of violent activism, extreme conservatism, homophobia and
anti-semitism for many years before they acted.

They are "lone actors" only in terms of the actual organisation and execution of
a terrorist attack; their world view is shared by a significant number of
people.

An increasing number have either been inspired by, or actually fought for,
Islamic State. When propagandists of the group tell individuals their duty is to
take up arms in European countries - especially against the "filthy French" -
they know already how receptive some will be to their call to arms.

The three strikes came almost exactly on the first anniversary of Islamic
State's declaration of its caliphate, and it is possible they were coordinated.
If so, it would indicate a new level of strategic thinking and capability for
Isis. If not, they nevertheless send a potent message: terrorists hope to to
give the impression that they can strike at will, everywhere, anywhere.

This is clearly not the case: the attack in Europe involved one man; the one in
Tunis, a gunman or two. We are still far from the mass casualty attacks of 10 or
12 years ago in Europe. We are also far from the doomsday scenario of highly
trained Isis militants making their way to the UK, US or wherever to execute
major operations.

But the sense of ubiquitous menace inevitably induced by Friday's killings will
be difficult to dispel.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Hartlepool Mail

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Terror attacks expected to deter British holidaymakers

BYLINE: Mark Thompson

LENGTH: 296  words


With the promise of hot weather and sandy beaches just a few hours away, Tunisia
is one of the most popular destinations for British holidaymakers seeking a
sunny getaway.

The North African country is in the 20 holiday hotspots for British travellers,
with 424,000 tourists going there last year, according to the Foreign Office.

But Tunisia is not only a destination for British travellers. It is also very
popular with Germans and the French, who have historic links to the country, and
figures from the World Bank suggest six million foreign tourists visited the
country in 2013.

Abta, the Association of British Travel Agents, says around 20,000 visitors are
in the country at the moment, a number which excludes those tourists who have
travelled there independently.

The country has had a chequered relationship with tourism in recent years,
partly triggered by the huge social and political upheaval since the uprisings
of the Arab Spring in 2011.

A suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in resort
Sousse in October 2013 - the site of the latest incident - and in March this
year an attack on the National Bardo Museum in March killed 22 people, mostly
foreign tourists including a Briton, leaving tensions high.

A spokeswoman for Abta said: "Tunisia had just started to recover to the numbers
before the Arab Spring of 2011, but then it had the attacks on the museum in
March.

"It is too early to say what impact it (today's attacks) will have had, but we
nearly always see when there is an incident such as the attack on the museum a
drop-off in short-term bookings.

"This attack is still unfolding so it is far too early to say what the impact
will be, but this kind of incident typically does have an influence on people's
decisions to go on holiday."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPHM


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               ICIS Chemical News

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Air Products France facility targeted in 'terror attack'

LENGTH: 71 words


LONDON (ICIS)--An Air Products facility at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, near Lyon,
southeastern France, has been targeted in a suspected terror attack, according
to media reports on Friday.

A car was rammed into gas canisters at the factory entrance causing an
explosion. The attack left one dead and several wounded, various media reports
said. The US-headquartered industrial gases company was not immediately
available to comment.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2015 Reed Business Information Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               ICIS Chemical News

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

One dead in Air Products France 'terror' attack - reports

LENGTH: 132 words


LONDON (ICIS)--An Air Products facility at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, near Lyon,
southeastern France, has been targeted in a suspected terror attack, according
to media reports on Friday. A car was rammed into gas canisters at the factory
entrance causing an explosion. The attack left one dead and several wounded,
various media reports said.

News agency Reuters said one of the victims had been decapitated and that a flag
"bearing Islamist inscriptions" had been found at the scene, citing French media
and a police source.

The US industrial gases company was not immediately available to comment.

French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve was on his way to the scene, media
reports said.

Local newspaper Le Dauphine said that attack happened shortly before 10:00 local
time (09:00 London time).

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2015 Reed Business Information Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               ICIS Chemical News

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

One dead in Air Products France terror attack - reports

LENGTH: 179 words


(releads, adds initial Air Products comment in second paragraph)

LONDON (ICIS)--One person has been killed and several wounded in a suspected
terrorist attack at an Air Products facility at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, near
Lyon, southeastern France, reports said on Friday.

A spokesperson for the US-headquarted industrial gases company said it was
preparing a statement, adding that: "We are working with the emergency services
at the current time and will provide more information as soon as we can."

A car was rammed into gas canisters at the factory entrance causing an
explosion, various media reports said. The attack left one dead and several
wounded.

News agency Reuters said one of the victims had been decapitated and that a flag
"bearing Islamist inscriptions" had been found at the scene, citing French media
and a police source.

French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve was on his way to the scene, French
media reports said.

Local newspaper Le Dauphine said that attack happened shortly before 10:00 local
time (09:00 London time).

Additional reporting by Franco Capaldo

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2015 Reed Business Information Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               ICIS Chemical News

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

One killed, two injured in Air Products France terror attack

LENGTH: 185 words


(updates number of injured, French President remarks)

LONDON (ICIS)--One person was killed and two injured in a terrorist attack on
Friday at an Air Products facility at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, near Lyon,
southeastern France.

A spokesperson for the US-headquartered industrial gases company said it was
preparing a statement, adding that: "We are working with the emergency services
at the current time and will provide more information as soon as we can."

A car was rammed into gas canisters at the factory entrance causing an
explosion, various media reports said. A man was decapitated in the attack and
flags "bearing Islamist inscriptions" have been found at the scene.

One of the two attackers has been arrested, the reports said.

French President Francois Hollande said in televised remarks from the EU summit
in Brussels that the incident "bears all the hallmarks of a terrorist attack."

Hollande said he would leave the summit and return to France this afternoon.

Local newspaper Le Dauphine said that attack happened shortly before 10:00 local
time (09:00 London time).

Additional reporting by Franco Capaldo

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2015 Reed Business Information Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               ICIS Chemical News

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

White House condemns terror attacks in France

LENGTH: 667 words


Investigating police officers work outside the plant where an attack took place.
source: Rex (adds paragraphs 1-9)

WASHINGTON (ICIS)--The White House on Friday condemned "in the strongest terms"
the string of terrorist attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait and said that the
US is offering support to those three nations if needed.

Speaking for President Barack Obama, [1]White House spokesman Josh Earnest said
that "our thoughts and prayers are with the victims of these heinous attacks,
their loved ones and the people of all three countries".

The attacks earlier on Friday struck an [2]Air Products & Chemicals facility
near Grenoble, France, a Tunisian seaside resort hotel and a mosque in Kuwait.

Earnest noted that Obama recently has been in contact with his counterparts in
France, Kuwait and Tunisia, saying that the US is "resolute and united in our
shared effort to fight the scourge of terrorism".

"We stand with these nations as they respond to attacks on their soil today,"
the White House statement said, "and we have been in contact with appropriate
counterparts in all three countries to offer any necessary support."

Earnest said that the president holds that "terrorism has no place in any
society, and the United States will continue to work closely with our
international partners to combat terrorist actors and counter violent extremism
around the globe".

Separately, the American Chemistry Council (ACC) said the terrorist attack on
the Air Products plant was an important reminder that the work of defending
against terrorism was never done.

"Our members have invested more than $14bn to further enhance site,
transportation, and cybersecurity at their facilities under ACC's Responsible
Care Security Code programme," the ACC said in an emailed statement.

"In light of recent events in France, we are staying in close contact with our
members and the Department of Homeland Security to determine if any additional
actions are needed."

Air Products has said its facility is now secure with all employees accounted
for.

One person was killed and two injured in the attack, during which a vehicle was
driven into gas canisters at the site.

The dead man was understood to be the boss of the suspect, a delivery man,
according to Reuters news agency citing a source close to the investigation.

Its report said the two men had gone to the site to make a delivery but the
attacker killed and beheaded his 50-year-old manager before entering the
facility in the vehicle.

A spokesperson for Air Products said: "We can confirm that an incident occurred
at our facility in L'Isle-d'Abeau, France this morning.

"Our priority at this stage is to take care of our employees, who have been
evacuated from the site and all accounted for.

"Emergency services are on site and have contained the situation. The site is
secure. Our crisis and emergency response teams have been activated and are
working closely with all relevant authorities.

"Further information will be released as soon as it becomes available," the
spokesperson for the US-headquartered industrial gases company added in an
emailed statement.

Media reports said earlier that a car was rammed into gas canisters at the
factory entrance, causing an explosion, shortly before 10:00 local time (09:00
London time).

Flags "bearing Islamist inscriptions" were also found at the scene and a suspect
has been arrested, the reports said.

French President Francois Hollande said in televised remarks from the EU summit
in Brussels that the incident "bears all the hallmarks of a terrorist attack."

Hollande said he would leave the summit and return to France this afternoon.

According to Reuters, the president has also announced that security
arrangements in the region would be at placed at the highest level for the next
three days.

Additional reporting by Franco Capaldo, Christie Moffat and Graeme Paterson

References

1. http://www.whitehouse.gov/ 2.
https://www.icis.com/subscriber/news/2015/06/26/9898651/air-products-france-atta
ck-employees-all-accounted-for/

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2015 Reed Business Information Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

TERROR ATTACK: '32 killed' by gunmen at hotels in Tunisia

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 933 words


AT least 32 people have been killed in a terror attack on two hotels in a
Tunisian tourist resort.

One gunman was killed and another is being pursued in the town of Sousse, a
popular holiday destination for Britons.

MORE TOP STORIES:

Photographs have been posted on Instagram showing a man on the beach wearing
blue shorts lying face down in the sand with what looks like blood in the area
around his head.

Empty sun loungers can be seen behind him and there does not appear to be anyone
else near him.

Elizabeth O'Brien, an Irish woman on holiday with her two sons in the resort,
described how she grabbed her children and ran for their lives when they heard
gunfire erupting from one of the hotels.

"We were on the beach, my sons were in the sea and I just got out of the sea. It
was about 12 o'clock and I just looked up about 500 metres from me and I saw a
(hot air) balloon collapse down, then rapid firing, then I saw two of the people
who were going to go up in the balloon start to run towards me - because I
thought it was fireworks," the Dubliner told RTE Radio.

"So, I thought 'oh my God, it sounds like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to
my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the
waiters and the security on the beach started saying 'run, run run!' and we just
ran to our room, which is like a little bungalow.

"So we are actually trapped in our room."

Ms O'Brien said the Irish consul in Madrid, Spain, called her to say it was a
terrorist attack in the hotel next door and told her to stay where she was.

"My travel agent told me to go to the reception to speak to the rep, but I'm
afraid. I'm stuck in the room with my two sons, not knowing what's going on,"
she said.

The Foreign Office said it is aware of the reports and was investigating.

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists.

Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis. Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn
by the hotels, sandy beaches and culture.

Thomas Cook, which has holidaymakers in the resort, said: "Thomas Cook has been
advised of an incident that occurred earlier today in Sousse, Tunisia.

"At this time, details are not clear as to which property(ies) have been
affected, with conflicting news reports.

"We are currently gathering information and will provide an update as soon as
possible. Our teams on the ground are offering every support to our customers
and their families in the area.

"We will continue to monitor the situation, working closely with the FCO and
local authorities."

British holidaymaker Gary Pine is staying in the El Mouradi Palm Marina hotel
close to where the incident happened.

Situated at the back of the hotel, near the pool area, he told Sky News by phone
that he could no longer hear any noise and said the hotel was "very, very quiet"
at that stage, but said it would have been very busy.

"The beach tends to be full up very quickly so it's the usual story of getting
down to lay your towel at half past six to get a decent beach position, so all
of the beach positions were taken," he said.

Mr Pine said that at the front of his hotel alone there would have been "several
hundred" people, and he said he could see every resort along and there would
have been "several hundred" more outside the others.

"So it's quite a busy beach.

"There's a lot of people walking up and down, taking in this lovely weather, so
it's a very busy beach, but as I said it became apparent very quick that it was
something more than firecrackers when you could hear bullets whizzing around,"
he said.

It is believed there are scores of Irish holidaymakers in Sousse at the moment.

While Dublin's Department of Foreign Affairs could not immediately confirm the
number of citizens in the resort, it said there were no reports at this stage of
any Irish hurt.

"Our embassy in Madrid and our Honorary Consul in Tunis are monitoring the
situation in Sousse, Tunisia and are providing updates," a spokeswoman said.

"We are currently not aware of any Irish citizens involved in the incident.

"Anyone with concerns about family or friends can call the Department on 01 408
2000."

Holiday brands Thomson and First Choice said they were "aware of a suspected
terrorist incident in Tunisia".

They added: "We are working closely with our teams in Tunisia and the relevant
authorities to determine exactly what has happened and provide assistance to
those affected.

"More information will be released as it becomes available."

A suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in Sousse in
October 2013, while 21 people lost their lives in an attack in the country
earlier this year.

One Brit was killed in the terrorist attack in March at the Bardo National
museum in Tunis, where gunmen stormed the tourist attraction and sparked a
three-hour siege.

The country has undergone unprecedented social and political change since the
2011 uprisings and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office says there is a "high"
threat from terrorism.

Maajid Nawaz, chairman of the counter-extremist Quilliam Foundation, told Sky
News: "I think what has been happening in France is connected to what has been
happening in Tunisia and elsewhere.

"It appears to be at the moment a coordinated attack by Isis on soft targets
across the world."

A spokeswoman for Thomson and First Choice said: "We are working closely with
our teams in Tunisia and the relevant authorities to determine exactly what has
happened and provide assistance to those affected."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Decapitated head with Arabic message found posted on gate in terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 293 words


A MAN has been decapitated during a suspected Islamist terror attack in France.

A message in Arabic was reportedly found on the victim's head, which had been
pinned to a fence.

MORE TOP STORIES:

Two attackers arrived at a gas factory near Grenoble in a car, bearing banners
written in Arabic, and set off explosions.

France's anti-terror prosecutor said the attack was carried out by "a terrorist
group" and it is understood one man has been arrested.

Prime Minister David Cameron expressed his sympathies over the incident to
French President Francois Hollande.

The two leaders spoke in Brussels, where they are attending a European Council
summit.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "He expressed his sympathies for what looks
like an appalling incident.

"Details are still emerging, so we wait to see those. But it clearly looks an
extremely concerning situation and our thoughts are with all those affected by
it."

French officials said the attack began mid-morning in the Isere region when the
men crashed the car into the entrance of the factory and into gas canisters
sparking an explosion.

Several other people are reported to have been injured.

The man arrested is said to be known to authorities.

The body and banners with Arabic writing on were found near the factory
entrance.

France went on high alert in January after extremist brothers Said and Cherif
Kouachi killed 12 people - including two police officers - in attacks on
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris.

A security official said the torso was found near the site of the explosion but
that the victim was not decapitated by the blast.

Two flags, one white and one black and both with Arabic inscriptions, were found
at the scene.

Police are searching for anyone else possibly involved in the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 9:43 PM GMT

UN secretary-general, White House and Kremlin condemn terror attacks as Pentagon
investigates whether they were coordinated centrally

BYLINE: ASSOCIATED PRESS and OLIVER O'CONNELL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 573 words



     ·    UN secretary-general Ban Ki-Moon has strongly condemned 'these
          appalling acts of violence' in Tunisia, Kuwait and France
     ·    White House spokesman Eric Shultz said national security staff and
          intelligence officials continue to offer help and assistance in those
          countries
     ·    The Kremlin said that Vladimir Putin has 'confirmed readiness to
          cooperate most closely with the Tunisian leadership in fighting the
          terror threat'
     ·    The Pentagon is looking into 'whether or not these various and far
          flung attacks were coordinated centrally or whether they were
          coincidental'
     ·    37 people were killed by a gunman at a Tunisian beach resort, 25 died
          in a suicide bombing in Kuwait and one died in an attack on a gas
          plant in France


The White House and Kremlin have joined the secretary-general of the United
Nations in condemning the suspected terrorist attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and
France on Friday.

A spokesman for Ban Ki-moon said that 'those responsible for these appalling
acts of violence must be swiftly brought to justice.'

He said the secretary-general affirms that 'these heinous attacks will only
strengthen the commitment of the United Nations to help defeat those bent on
murder, destruction and the annihilation of human development and culture.'

Scroll down for video

The White House condemned the attacks as 'heinous' acts of terrorism and said it
was working with those countries to offer any necessary support.

A statement read: 'The United States condemns in the strongest terms the
terrorist attacks in France, Kuwait, and Tunisia today.'

'Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims of these heinous attacks, their
loved ones, and the people of all three countries.'

White House spokesman Eric Shultz said President Barack Obama has been briefed
about the three attacks and continues to receive updates.

He said U.S. national security staff and intelligence professionals 'are in
touch with their counterparts in their respective countries and continue to
offer help and assistance in those countries.'

He said there was no immediate intelligence assessment available on the
unfolding situation.

A Pentagon spokesman said that it is too early to say if the three attacks were
coordinated.

Col. Steve Warren said that the Pentagon condemns 'these terrorist attacks' and
will continue to work with international partners to fight the Islamic State
group and other violent extremist groups.

He noted IS has claimed responsibility for one attack, but said the Pentagon
continues to look into 'whether or not these various and far flung attacks were
coordinated centrally or whether they were coincidental.'

'Our law enforcement officials continue to be in touch with our counterparts in
France,' he said.

President Vladimir Putin has offered condolences to his Tunisian counterpart,
President Beji Caid Essebsi, in connection with the attack on the beach resort
of Sousse.

The Kremlin said Friday that Putin condemned the attack and 'confirmed readiness
to cooperate most closely with the Tunisian leadership in fighting the terror
threat.'

A gunman killed at least 37 people and wounded 36 in an attack on the beach
resort in Tunisia on Friday.

In Kuwait, a suicide bomber killed at least 25 people at a mosque, while a man
with suspected ties to French Islamic radicals rammed a car into a gas factory
in southeastern France, triggering an explosion that injured two people.

The severed head of a local businessman was left hanging at the factory's
entrance.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 8:56 PM GMT

At least five Brits among 32 dead in Tunisian terrorist beach attack;
Bodies covered in blankets were strewn across the beach and medical staff used
sun loungers as stretchers to carry away the dead and injured

BYLINE: By Wayne Ankers

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 786 words


At least five British tourists are thought to be among the 32 people killed in
the beach rampage.

The slaughter happened on the same day a man was found decapitated after an
attack by suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory and a Shiite mosque
in Kuwait was bombed killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked they come after the
so-called Islamic State called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of
calamities for the nonbelievers".

Tunisia's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Tunisians,
Germans and Belgians as well as Brits.

Thirty six others have been wounded.

Bodies covered in blankets were strewn across the beach and medical staff used
sun loungers as stretchers to carry away the dead and injured.

Despite initially believing there was more than one gunman, the Tunisian
authorities later said the killer was thought to be a young student who had not
previously been known to their security services.

MORE: Manchester family cheated death in Tunisia after narrowly avoiding
terrorist attack

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach at the Riu Bellevue Park.

His killing spree ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his
body.

Speaking after chairing a meeting of the Government's Cobra committee and
following talks with tour operators, a sombre Mr Hammond confirmed the British
fatalities.

He told reporters at the Foreign Office: "I would like to offer my condolences
to the families and friends of the victims of these three shocking terrorist
incidents in Tunisia, Kuwait and France.

"I have chaired a Cobra meeting this afternoon to look at our response to all
three of these incidents and there will be a further Cobra meeting tomorrow
morning.

"Turning to the incident in Tunisia which is of most direct concern to people in
this country because of the number of Britons involved, it is clear that there
have been a number of people killed.

MORE: Tunisia hotel terror attack death toll climbs: Lone gunman responsible,
say officials

"The situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can't be sure
exactly how many, but because of the nature of the composition of the tourist
population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high proportion of
those killed and injured will have been British.

"We have had reports from families of those involved in the incident that allow
us to confirm that at least five Britons have been killed in this incident, but
I should warn that we must expect that there will be more reports of fatalities
as we establish the detail on the ground."

The Prime Minister added: "I have called the Tunisian President to offer my
support. We stand shoulder to shoulder in the fight against terrorism.''

Speaking after chairing a meeting of the Government's Cobra committee and
following talks with tour operators, Mr Hammond confirmed the British
fatalities.

He said: "I would like to offer my condolences to the families and friends of
the victims of these three shocking terrorist incidents in Tunisia, Kuwait and
France.

"I have chaired a Cobra meeting this afternoon to look at our response to all
three of these incidents and there will be a further Cobra meeting tomorrow
morning.

"Turning to the incident in Tunisia which is of most direct concern to people in
this country because of the number of Britons involved, it is clear that there
have been a number of people killed.

"The situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can't be sure
exactly how many, but because of the nature of the composition of the tourist
population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high proportion of
those killed and injured will have been British.

"We have had reports from families of those involved in the incident that allow
us to confirm that at least five Britons have been killed in this incident, but
I should warn that we must expect that there will be more reports of fatalities
as we establish the detail on the ground."

A consular team is in Sousse, with two rapid response teams travelling to the
region overnight, Mr Hammond said.

"We are working with the Tunisian authorities to understand what they are doing
in response to this incident and around the tightening of security in this area.

"We are talking to other national authorities - particularly the German
authorities who had large numbers of tourists in the area - and I have just
finished a conference call with the tour operators who operate the majority of
flights into this area."

MORE: Tunisia hotel terror attack: Manchester chef tells how she ran for her
life from gunmen who slaughtered at least 27

Tunisia hotel attack

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 8:36 PM GMT

Manchester family cheated death in Tunisia after narrowly avoiding terrorist
attack;
James Edmunds, 45, and his family's dream holiday has turned into a 'nightmare'
as they lay barricaded in their hotel after today's tragedy

BYLINE: By Alex Hibbert

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 379 words


A Manchester family say they cheated death after gunmen opened fire 100 yards
from where they had been sunbathing minutes earlier.

James Edmunds, 45, and his family's dream holiday turned into a 'nightmare' as
they lay barricaded in their hotel after narrowly avoiding today's terrorist
attack.

James, his wife Sherilyn, and daughters Hollie, 22, and Fern, 21, all from
Heywood, decided to take an early lunch in the town after being on a beach a
short distance from where the horror began.

He and his family are staying at the Kanta hotel, and are now desperately
attempting to fly back to safety in the UK on the earliest flight possible.

Speaking to the M.E.N from Tunisia, James, a high access machine operator, said:
"Avoiding today's attack was like the toss of a coin. Every day we've been going
to the town for some lunch and today we headed in at around 12.30pm.

"We were in the town and saw armed police with machine guns all around but no
one said anything. Then when we got back to the beach we weren't allowed on it.
Instead we were bundled back to the hotel.

"There was gunships and choppers everywhere, and a heavy police presence. We
have been warned not to leave the hotel and there's armed guards on the doors.

MORE: Tunisia hotel terror attack death toll climbs: Lone gunman responsible,
say officials Awful tragedy

"Apparently people were being given CPR on the beach and there was injured
people all around. It is an awful tragedy what has happened but you can't help
but feel lucky that you were not there at the time."

The Edmund family were due to fly home on Monday after being in the country for
10 days already, but are now trying to catch the first flight back to England.

James, who along with Sherilyn volunteers at Manchester homeless charity Coffee
for Craig several times a week, added: "The rep is coming to the hotel but we
don't know when we're going to be able to leave. All the holiday makers are
holed up in a room watching it all unfold on television, we haven't even been
told if the terrorists have all been caught. It is scary, I actually had
concerns about coming out here before we left England.

"We're stuck here with police all around in body armour and with machine guns,
and we only have sun-tan lotion. It's very scary."

Tunisia hotel attack

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 7:03 PM GMT

Armed police investigating French decapitation terror attack swoop on former
home of suspected Islamist and remove woman and child after Yassine Salhi is
accused of beheading his boss

BYLINE: JOHN HALL, FIDELMA COOK, SIMON TOMLINSON and PETER ALLEN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2707 words



     ·    Shocking attack took place at the headquarters of American-owned Air
          Products close to Lyon in southern France
     ·    A severed head covered in Arabic writing was then placed on the
          factory's fence along with two Islamist flags
     ·    Suspect then drove through factory gates, crashing into gas cannisters
          and causing blasts that injured onlookers
     ·    Alleged killer has been named as father of three Yassine Salhi, 30,
          with the victim believed to be his employer
     ·    The company both men worked for is understood to have regularly
          delivered to the Air Products factory
     ·    Delivery driver's wife later claimed that Salhi was a 'normal Muslim'
          who left for work as usual at 7am today


Four people are in custody in connection to a beheading and explosion at a gas
factory in south-eastern France - and police are still searching buildings for
evidence.

Heavily armed police investigating this morning's brutal terror attack in France
have removed a woman and child from the home of Yassine Salhi - the suspected
Islamist accused of beheading his boss and trying to blow up the American-owned
gas factory.

He was known to factory personnel because he came in regularly for deliveries,
Paris Prosecutor Francois Molins said.

Police swooped on the apartment building in Saint-Priest, in the suburbs of the
city of Lyon, just hours after the 30-year-old delivery driver was arrested on
suspicion of writing Arabic slogans on his employer's severed head and hanging
it on a fence outside the nearby headquarters of Air Products.

Salhi is accused of going on to crash his Ford Fusion delivery van through the
factory's gates before ramming it into several large gas cannisters left in the
car park - apparently in the hope they would explode and destroy the entire
factory complex.

The explosions were relatively small, however, leaving just two factory workers
with non life-threatening injuries.

The murdered man - who French media say owned the delivery company Salhi worked
for - is believed to have been killed elsewhere before his corpse was dumped at
the factory site in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier and his head impaled on a fence 30
feet away surrounded by homemade Islamist flags.

Speaking before the raid on her home, Salhi's wife described her husband as a
'normal Muslim' who left for work as usual at 7am this morning. 'My heart
stopped when I heard he was a suspect....I expected him this afternoon,' the
unnamed woman told French radio station Europe 1.

Salhi - who is understood to have been known to security services since at least
2006 - reportedly told arresting officers that he is a member of the Islamic
State terror group. He is believed not to have a criminal record and an
investigation into his 'possible radicalisation' was dropped in 2008.

Scroll down for video

French President Francois Hollande, speaking in Brussels, said the attack began
when a car crashed through the gate of the factory and ploughed into gas
canisters, setting off an explosion.

'No doubt about the intention - to cause an explosion,' Mr Hollande said,
calling the attack 'of a terrorist nature'.

The victims' head was found staked on a gate at the factory's entrance, in what
appeared to be an echo of the Islamic State group's practice of beheading
prisoners and displaying their heads for all to see.

An official said two flags - one white and one black, both with Arabic
inscriptions - were found nearby. Images from the scene suggest the banners may
have been homemade and written using paint.

At a press conference this afternoon, Cazeneuve named the arrested man as
Yassine Salhi.

'He was investigated in 2006 for radicalisation, but [the probe] was not renewed
in 2008. He had no criminal record,' he added. 'This individual has links with
the Salafist movement, but had not been identified as having participated in
activities of a terrorist nature.'

A local newspaper is reporting that the unnamed dead man was Salhi's boss and
that their company regularly delivered to Air Products.

Before this afternoon's raids at her home, an unnamed woman claiming to be Salhi
wife has since spoke to the Europe1 radio station.

'I don't know what happened, he left to go to work as normal,' she said.

She said he was a delivery driver who left, as normal at 7am. 'My heart stopped
when I heard he was a suspect,' she added. 'He went to work this morning at 7am.
He does deliveries. He did not return between noon and two, I expected him this
afternoon.

'My sister said turn on the television. She was crying... I know my husband. We
have a normal family life. He goes to work, he comes back...We are normal
Muslims. We do Ramadan. We have three children and a normal family life.'

Anti-terror police subsequently took the woman and her three children out of the
apartment block in Saint Priest where she has been living with Salhi for the
past six months.

AT LEAST 28 TOURISTS DEAD IN TUNISIAN HOTEL ATTACKS AS 'ISIS GUNMEN SHOOT PEOPLE
ON SUNBEDS' ALONG BEACH PACKED WITH WESTERNERS

Gunmen have killed at least 28 people in an attack on two hotels in the popular
holiday destination of Sousse.

The attack took place at the Al-Qantawi resort in the city of Sousse, located
140 kilometres south of the capital Tunis on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea.



Militants, feared to be from ISIS, exchanged gunfire with security services on a
beach packed with British holidaymakers.

Rebecca Miles, a British tourist who was staying at the Royal Kenz hotel with
her boyfriend Dean Anderson, 24, having arrived on Monday spoke to MailOnline
about what she witnessed.

'We were told to go back to our rooms because there were reports of a bomb,' she
said.

'It happened about half an hour ago - I heard a bang and I thought it was
thunder but it was a clear sky so it obviously wasn't.

'I heard sirens going off about 20 minutes ago and everyone came running back
from the private hotel beach which is about 400 metres from the hotel. Everyone
is a bit clueless about what is happening.

'People are anxious because they don't really know what is happening and we are
now stuck in our rooms. There have been deaths apparently.'

Fellow British tourist Gary Pine told Sky News said: 'We thought fire crackers
were going off but you could see quite quickly what was going on.

'There was a mass exodus off the beach. My son was in the sea at the time and
myself and my wife were shouting at him to get out and as he ran up he said I've
just saw someone get shot.'

SUICIDE BOMB RIPS THROUGH KUWAITI MOSQUE AFTER FRIDAY PRAYERS KILLING AT LEAST
13 WORSHIPPERS AS ISIS CLAIMS RESPONSIBILITY

At least 13 worshippers have been killed today after an Islamic State suicide
bomber struck at a packed Kuwaiti mosque after Friday prayers.

Shocking photos show dozens of dead and wounded Muslims who were all observing
the holy month of Ramadan in the Al-Imam al-Sadeq Shiite mosque in Kuwait City.

Witnesses said worshippers were standing shoulder-to-shoulder in group prayer
when the bomb ripped through the building.

The ISIS-affiliated group in Saudi Arabia, calling itself Najd Province, said
its militant Abu Suleiman al-Muwahhid carried out the suicide bombing.

He was seen walking in to the back of the mosque during prayers, before walking
among his victims and blowing himself up.

The group said the mosque was targeted because they believe it was spreading
Shiite teachings among Sunni Muslims.

ISIS, a radical Sunni Muslim group, considers Shiites to be heretics.

Najd Province claimed similar bombings against Shiite mosques in Saudi Arabia in
recent weeks.

Last month, the group claimed two deadly bombings against Shiite mosques in
Saudi Arabia, both of which took place during the weekly Friday prayers.

ISIS has also claimed several such attacks against Shiites in Yemen, the last of
which was just a week ago.

On June 17, it claimed five simultaneous bombings at Shiite mosques and offices
in Sanaa that killed at least 31 people and wounded dozens. But Friday's attack
is the first of its kind in oil-rich Kuwait.

France's prime minister later branded the attack 'Islamist terrorism,'
announcing he was cutting short a visit to South America to deal with the
crisis.

'Islamist terrorism has hit France again,' Manuel Valls told a press conference
in Colombia's capital Bogota, adding that he would take part by telephone in an
emergency meeting called by President Francois Hollande, then rush back to
France.

Within an hour of the attack, French President Francois Hollande was to return
home early from an EU summit.

Speaking at a press conference in Brussels shortly afterwards, Hollande said a
man who launched a 'terrorist' assault on a gas factory Friday has been
identified and that there may have been a second attacker. Local media reported
that a second terrorist has since been arrested.

'This attack was in a vehicle driven by one person, perhaps accompanied by
another,' Hollande added. 'The individual suspected of committing this attack
has been arrested and identified.'

Local newspaper Dauphine Libere is reporting that a second person has now been
arrested, believed to be the man who drove the Ford Fusion 'preview' car around
the factory this morning before the attack.

Investigators are working to establish the full details of the attack but is
widely thought that the explosions were intended to have a far bigger impact
than causing several dozen injuries, and may have been intended to blow up the
entire Air Products headquarters.

Salhi had a 'link' to Salafist movement, Cazeneuve said but was not implicated
in any terrorist activities. The Salafi movement is a group within Sunni Islam,
which is often associated with literalist approaches to Islam.

He said a 'fiche S' was opened on the attacker in 2006 for radicalisation. A
'fiche S' for which the S stands for 'Sûreté d'etat' basically means he had been
identified as a possible danger and should be watched.

The file was not renewed in 2008, however, meaning authorities no longer
considered him a risk. Cazeneuve also said the man named as Yassine Sali had no
criminal record. He added that the suspect is believed to be father of three
children.

He was known for links to extremism but not identified as a high risk who would
carry out an attack, says Cazeneuve.

ATTACK AT AIR PRODUCTS HEADQUARTERS COMES JUST FIVE MONTHS AFTER CHARLIE HEBDO
MASSACRE

The attack comes five months after three Islamist gunmen killed 17 people in
coordinated terror strikes across Paris.

The victims, including journalists and police, were killed in three days of
violence, including a mass shooting at the weekly magazine Charlie Hebdo, known
for its satirical attacks on Islam and other religions.

The attackers, two French-born brothers of Algerian origin, singled out the
magazine for its publication of cartoons depicting and ridiculing the Prophet
Mohammad.

The bloodshed ended on January 9 with a hostage-taking at a Jewish supermarket
in which four hostages and the gunman were killed. The terror chief behind the
murders was killed in a drone attack in Yemen earlier this month.

Nasser al-Wuhayshi was once a loyal deputy to Osama Bin Laden, the terrorist
mastermind behind the 9/11 attacks on the USA in 2001.

Last month, the senior AQAP commander who admitted responsibility for the Hebdo
attacks was also blasted to death by a drone.

Nasr al-Ansi caused outage in January when he gloated over the murders by
France-born Islamists.

Two of them - brothers Said and Cherif Koachi - both said they were working for
AQAP.

The Kouachi brothers and a third terrorist, Amedy Coulibaly, were themselves
killed by police following sieges which also saw four Jewish people shot dead in
a Kosher supermarket in eastern Paris.

Al-Ansi, who was also close to the late terror chief Osama Bin Laden, had called
for more attacks in countries including Britain, America and France saying
'lone-wolf' attacks were 'better and more harmful'.

The president of Air Products - an American owned company that is understood to
have recently signed a large contract with Saudi Arabia - is an Iranian Shia
Muslim named Seifi Ghasemi.

Iran is known to support the regime of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria - the
sworn enemy of the Islamic State terror group.

There remains a great deal of confusion over the exact sequence of events at the
factory., which belongs to Air Products - a US chemical company based in
Allentown, Pennsylvania.

The company would not confirm whether any employees were injured or killed.

'Our priority at this stage is to take care of our employees, who have been
evacuated from the site and all accounted for,' the company said in a statement.

'The site is secure. Our crisis and emergency response teams have been activated
and are working closely with all relevant authorities.'

The company added that all its employees are accounted for after an attack on a
factory in southwestern France. It has not confirmed whether its staff were
among the two people reported injured and one dead.

It released a statement that all employees have been evacuated from the site,
which is secure.

It says 'our crisis and emergency response teams have been activated and are
working closely with all relevant authorities.'

French Prime Minister Manuel Valls ordered heightened security measures Friday
at 'sensitive sites' near the gas factory that was attacked in eastern France.

Valls, who is on an official trip to South America, asked Cazeneuve to head to
Saint-Quentin Fallavier, the site of the attack, the premier's entourage said.

PROFILE: SEIFI GHASEMI - THE IRAN-BORN PRESIDENT OF AMERICAN-OWNED AIR PRODUCTS

 Born in Iran in 1944 and a US citizen since 1982, Ghasemi attended the Abadan
Institute of Technology where he obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in
General Engineering. He then moved to the United States where he received his
Masters degree from Stanford University in California.

After conducting research in Fluidics at Stanford, he was employed by the Lear
Motor Company before a three year spell as assistant professor at the University
in Tehran. In 1974 Ghasemi joined the newly formed National Iranian Steel
Industries Company, and three years later became executive director.

In 1979, he emigrated to the United States where he joined BOC's Carbon
Division. He moved to its US gases business in 1987, becoming its president in
1993. In June of this year, Ghasemi added to this role world-wide responsibility
for the Group's Process Plants business.

Ghasemi is Vice Chairman of the Compressed Gases Association and on the Board of
Directors of the National Petroleum Refiners Association. He has one son,
Robert, and lives in Gladstone, N.J., with his wife Ellen. His outside interests
include running, skiing and opera.

The BOC Group, the parent company of BOC Gases, is a world leader in industrial
gases, health care, vacuum technologies and distribution services. The BOC Group
operates in more than 60 countries with sales last year of $5.9 billion.

The Mayor of Bordeaux, Alain Juppé, took to Twitter to condemn the attacks.

'The terrorist threat is at a maximum', he wrote, adding that France 'must make
every effort to protect its citizens'.

British Prime Minister David Cameron expressed his sympathies over the incident
to French President Francois Hollande.

The two leaders spoke in Brussels, where they are attending a European Council
summit.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: 'He expressed his sympathies for what looks
like an appalling incident.

'Details are still emerging, so we wait to see those. But it clearly looks an
extremely concerning situation and our thoughts are with all those affected by
it.'

The Government's emergency Cobra committee will meet this afternoon following
terror attacks in France and Tunisia, David Cameron said as he offered 'our
solidarity in fighting this evil of terrorism'.

France has been on its highest security alert ever since the Paris attacks and
according to the Dauphiné Libéré, an internal security services source said that
'all the signals in recent weeks have been pointing to red for an attack of this
nature occurring in the national territory.'

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 5:13 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel terror attack death toll climbs: Lone gunman responsible, say
officials;
British holidaymakers as well as Tunisians, Germans and Belgians are among the
dead following an attack by a gunman armed with a Kalashnikov

BYLINE: By Rebekah Holliday

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 475 words


Tunisia terror attacks

The death toll in the Tunisia terror massacre has now risen to 28 as more detail
of the lone gunman attack emerges.

Tunisia's Interior Ministry said the gunman rushed into the Imperial Marhaba
hotel in the resort town of Sousse in the latest attack on the North African
country's key tourism industry.

They said the dead included British holidaymakers as well as Tunisians, Germans
and Belgians.

At least 36 other people were also wounded.

The gunman, who was wielding a Kalashnikov, entered from the beach, said
ministry spokesman Mohammed Ali Aroui.

Security forces responded and killed the attacker.

The Interior Ministry had previously said two attackers were involved, including
one who fled the scene, but has since said a lone gunman was involved.

"A terrorist infiltrated the buildings from the back before opening fire on the
residents of the hotel, including foreigners and Tunisians," Mr Aroui said.

During the holy month of Ramadan, Tunisia's Muslim population is less likely to
go the beach, so the victims would have been predominantly foreign tourists.

Local radio said most of the dead were German or British.

Rafik Chelli, one of Tunisia's leading security officials, told Mosaique FM that
the gunman was unknown to authorities.

He said the man, from the city of Kairouan, came from the beach hiding his
Kalashnikov under an umbrella before opening fire on tourists.

From there, he entered the hotel through the pool, shooting people as he went.

MORE: Manchester chef ran for her life when gunman opened fire in hotel

Since overthrowing its secular dictator in 2011, Tunisia has been plagued by
terror attacks, although they have only recently targeted the vital tourism
sector.

In March, two gunmen attacked the national museum in Tunis killing at least 22
people, all but one of them tourists.

A group pledging allegiance to the radical Islamic State group claimed that
attack and promised more in Tunisia.

Tourism is a major part of the Tunisian economy, especially in coastal resorts
like Sousse and it suffered in the aftermath of the 2011 revolution.

With a return to stability and new elections late last year it was slowly
recovering, until the attack on the Bardo museum.

Spanish prime minister Mariano Rajoy confirmed that the Imperial Marhaba is
owned by the Spanish company RIU.

The company's media office said RIU's board of directors was holding an
emergency meeting following the attack.

The firm also offered its condolences to the victims and their families.

RIU added that the 366-room 5-star hotel had 565 guests staying there when the
attack happened.

A spokeswoman said: "The majority of the guests are from the UK and other
central European countries.

"However, it is not possible at the moment to confirm the nationalities or any
other details of the victims." EXTRA: Latest updates on the Tunisian terror
attacks

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 5:00 PM GMT

American company targeted in the France terror attack, ramps up security
worldwide

BYLINE: OLIVER O'CONNELL FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 600 words



     ·    The Pennsylvania-headquartered company has increased security at its
          facilities around the world in the wake of the attack
     ·    It is unclear whether the firm was targeted because it is American
     ·    All employees have been accounted for and the facility has been
          evacuated
     ·    Air Products sells gases and chemicals for industrial use and has
          operations across the US, Canada, Europe and Asia
     ·    The firm is involved in high profile gas projects in Saudi Arabia and
          Qatar


The factory in south east France at the center of today's shocking attack by
suspected Islamist terrorists is owned by the American firm Air Products.

It is unclear at present as to whether the facility, in the town of
Saint-Quentin-Fallavier in the commune of L'Isle-d'Abeau, was attacked because
it is American-owned, nor whether there were any American employees on site at
the time.

The company has responded by dramatically increasing security at all of its many
facilities around the world.

Headquartered in the Lehigh Valley, near Allentown, Pennsylvania, on a sprawling
600 acre campus, the main business of Air Products is selling gases and
chemicals for industrial use.

Founded in 1940, the company mainly sells oxygen, nitrogen, argon, hydrogen and
carbon dioxide.

Air Products employs more than 20,000 people in 50 countries, and in 2014 global
sales totaled $10.4 billion.

The company's chairman, president and CEO is Iranian-born Seifi Ghasemi who has
been a US citizen since 1982.

In addition to the Pennsylvania headquarters, in the US the firm has facilities
in Georgia, California, Texas, and Louisiana, among other states.

Air Products has a long history of working with NASA, supplying the agency with
liquid hydrogen for space shuttle and rocket launches.

The company has also worked on LNG projects in Qatar, under US government
guarantees from the Export-Import Bank. In April Air Products was awarded a
contract by Saudi Aramco to build, own and operate the world's largest
industrial gas complex in Jazan, Saudi Arabia.

The Saint-Quentin-Fallavier factory was opened in 1982 according to a local
business directory and specializes in medical and industrial gas bottling and
marketing.

Air Products has said that all of its employees are accounted for after the
attack. The company has not yet confirmed whether its staff were among the two
people reported injured and one dead.

A statement said that all employees have been evacuated from the site, which is
secure.

'Our crisis and emergency response teams have been activated and are working
closely with all relevant authorities.'

A car rammed the gate and plowed into gas canisters setting off an explosion on
Friday morning. A decapitated body and flags with Arabic writing were found at
the scene.

The French government has ordered heightened security measures at 'sensitive
sites' near the gas factory.

'SECURITY HAS BEEN INCREASED' - AIR PRODUCTS RESPONDS TO ATTACK

Air Products released the following statement:

We can confirm that an attack occurred at our facility in L'Isle-d'Abeau, France
this morning. We are deeply saddened by the loss of life and want to express our
sympathies to the family of the victim of this unspeakable tragedy.

Emergency services are on site and have contained the situation. All individuals
working at the site have been evacuated. The site is secure. Our crisis and
emergency response teams have been activated and are working closely with all
relevant authorities.

Security has been increased at locations around the world as a precautionary
measure.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 4:24 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel terror attack: Manchester chef tells how she ran for her life from
gunmen who slaughtered at least 27;
"We looked out from the balcony and we could see all these people screaming and
running away from the beach."

BYLINE: By John Scheerhout

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


A Manchester holidaymaker has told how she ran for her life when gunmen opened
fire at her hotel in Tunisia killing at least 27 people.

Olivia Leathley, 24, spent nearly two hours barricaded in an office after
fleeing the sound of machine gunfire outside.

The drama started on Friday when Olivia, from Burnage, head chef at Cellar Key
restaurant in Chorlton, heard what she thought was the sound of fireworks as she
was in the room of her hotel, Bellevue Park, in the resort of Sousse with her
boyfriend Mike Jones, 24, a trainee solicitor from Crewe.

"We heard all this banging and we thought maybe it was fireworks and that they
were being a bit silly," said Olivia, speaking to the MEN from Tunisia.

"We looked out from the balcony and we could see all these people screaming and
running away from the beach," she said.

She said the gunman had opened fire on tourists on the beach outside an adjacent
hotel before moving up towards Bellevue Park.

"It was lucky I was waiting for my phone to charge or we would have been on the
beach too," she said.

The pair went to the lobby where they were told 'nobody go out'.

"Then we heard machine gunfire coming from just below the lobby.

"Someone said 'they are in' and one of the reps just shouted 'run'. We literally
ran for our lives.

Tunisia hotel attack

"The machine gunfire sounded like it was directly behind us. I've never been so
scared. I'd called my dad and I'm screaming down the phone to him saying 'dad, I
love you'.

"I was holding my boyfriend's hand and he was literally pulling me across the
car park. We went into an office building and we went into a room in there with
no windows.

"We stayed there for 90 minutes to two hours. We could still hear the sound of
machine gunfire. When it had all finally died down we went back to the hotel."
MORE: Live updates - Tunisia hotel terror attacks

There, she heard there had been 27 confirmed dead.

"We met one girl whose husband had been shot in the stomach. She was going off
to hospital.

"We heard about a pregnant woman who went into labour because of the stress. She
only had a tiny bump. We heard about another guy who had been shot in the arm.

"I saw someone with a broken ankle he had suffered running back from the beach.
We heard about another woman who got shot in the back of the legs."

If you have family in Tunisia the Foreign Office can be contacted on 0207 008
1500.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 1:38 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel terror attacks: Dozens dead at popular tourist resort - Latest
updates;
Dozens of people have been killed in a terror attack on two hotels in a Tunisian
tourist resort in Sousse

BYLINE: By Wayne Ankers

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 14 words


Tunisia hotel terror attacks: Dozens dead at popular tourist resort - Latest
updates

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 6:36 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: 'At least 13 Brits' killed or injured in beach massacre;

British casualties are among the 28 killed when a gunman opened fire on
holidaymakers

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 513 words


Footage of wounded tourists arriving at hospital following hotel terror attack
in Tunisia

At least 13 Brits are among those killed in the terrorist massacre on a Tunisian
beach, it has been claimed.

Witnesses reported a "stampede" on the beach in the north-eastern resort of
Sousse after at least one gunman opened fire on Western holidaymakers leaving 28
people dead.

Terrible images show their bodies lying face down in the sand by sun loungers,
still wearing their beach clothes.

Local TV cameras filmed many of those injured emerging from ambulances following
the atrocity this afternoon.

Terror attack on hotel in Sousse

The slaughter happened when gunmen exchanged fire with security services on the
busy beach, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK and Ireland.

The country's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons,
Tunisians, Germans and Belgians. Thirty six others have been wounded.

A British holidaymaker staying in a hotel close to where the incident happened
told Sky News: "The beach tends to be full up very quickly so it's the usual
story of getting down to lay your towel at half past six to get a decent beach
position, so all of the beach positions were taken.

"It's quite a busy beach."

"There's a lot of people walking up and down, taking in this lovely weather, so
it's a very busy beach, but as I said it became apparent very quick that it was
something more than firecrackers when you could hear bullets whizzing around."

The attackers rushed into the Imperial Marhaba hotel in the latest attack on the
North African country's key tourism industry.

"A terrorist infiltrated the buildings from the back before opening fire on the
residents of the hotel, including foreigners and Tunisians,"a government
spokesman said.

Rafik Chelli, one of Tunisia's leading security officials, told Mosaique FM that
the gunman who was shot by security forces was unknown to authorities.

He said the man, from the city of Kairouan, came from the beach hiding his
Kalashnikov under an umbrella before opening fire on tourists. From there he
entered the hotel through the pool, shooting people as he went.

Since overthrowing its secular dictator in 2011, Tunisia has been plagued by
terror attacks, although they have only recently targeted the vital tourism
sector.

In March, two gunmen attacked the national museum in Tunis killing at least 22
people, all but one of them tourists. A group pledging allegiance to the radical
Islamic State group claimed that attack and promised more in Tunisia.

Tourism is a major part of the Tunisian economy, especially in coastal resorts
like Sousse and it suffered in the aftermath of the 2011 revolution.

With a return to stability and new elections late last year it was slowly
recovering, until the attack on the Bardo museum.

Spanish prime minister Mariano Rajoy confirmed that the Imperial Marhaba is
owned by the Spanish company RIU.

The company's media office said RIU's board of directors was holding an
emergency meeting following the attack. The firm also offered its condolences to
the victims and their families.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 5:20 PM GMT

Tunisia, France and Kuwait terror attacks: World rocked by beheading, bombings
and tourist shootings on three continents;
At least 54 people have lost their lives after the beheading near Grenoble, a
mosque bombing, terrorists in Kuwait and a gun attack on a tourist beach in
Tunisia

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 680 words


France, Tunisia and Kuwait have each been gripped by terror today as gunmen and
a suicide bomber launched attacks that claimed the lives of at least 54 victims
across the world in three horrifying hours.

It is not yet clear whether or not the attacks were coordinated, but leaders
from around the world have expressed their sadness at the day's events.

There were also reported deaths in Somalia, where Al Shabaab militants battled
with African Union troops after exploding a car bomb at a peacekeepers' base
south of Mogadishu.

Also in Syria, an ISIS attack on the north east Syrian city of Hasaka is
reported to have displaced 60,000 people.

The attacks began unfolding first in Grenoble, in south east France - but by
midday terror had swept to two other continents.9am - Beheading at French gas
factory BREAKING: Scenes from outside factory of beheading in Grenoble

An attack is launched at a gas factory where a man was decapitated outside the
entrance to the factory and banners written in Arabic are found at the scene.

A security official said the victim was the head of a local transportation
company, who is believed to have been killed before the explosion.

Recap our live blog on the attack here

After an arrest was made, French Interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve said:
"People who could have participated in this abject crime are in custody."

10pm - Suicide bomber launches mosque attack sees 25 die

A deadly explosion strikes a Shiite mosque in the Kuwaiti capital while a
Twitter account known to belong to ISIS said the attack was carried out by a
suicide bomber wearing an explosive belt.

It has been reported that at least 25 bodies were found after the explosion,
which took place just after midday Friday prayers - typically the most crowded
of the week, especially during the holy Muslim month of Ramadan.

11pm - David Cameron expresses sympathy to French President Francois Hollande

David Cameron speaks to French President Francois Hollande at the EU summit in
Brussels to express his sympathies over what Downing Street described as the
"appalling incident" near Grenoble.

Soon afterwards President Hollande breaks off from summit negotiations to tell
reporters the incident had "all the hallmarks of a terrorist attack" and that
the suspect in custody had been identified.

Announcing that he is returning to Paris immediately, he said there was "no
doubt" the terrorists, one man and an accomplice, meant to cause an explosion at
the factory using gas cannisters, adding that France would "never give into
fear".

Midday - Horror attack on tourist beach in Tunisia kills 28

Footage of wounded tourists arriving at hospital following hotel terror attack
in Tunisia

Terrorists launch attacks on two hotels in the Tunisian resort of Sousse.

British tourists are feared to be among the 28 people killed.

Eyewitnesses describe shooting on the beach. One holidaymaker posts a photograph
on Instagram showing a man in swimming shorts lying face down in the sand with
what looks like blood in the area around his head.

Moment a holiday flight to Tunisia turns back following Sousse terror attack

Recap our live blog here

Elizabeth O'Brien, a Dubliner on holiday with her two sons in the resort,
described how she grabbed her children and they ran for their lives when they
heard gunfire erupting from one of the hotels.

"I thought 'oh my God, it sounds like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to my
children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel.

"The waiters and the security on the beach started saying 'run, run run!' and we
just ran to our room."

 2pm - Prime Minister announces emergency Cobra meeting

David Cameron announces that the Government's emergency Cobra committee will
meet this afternoon following the terror attacks in France and Tunisia as he
offers "our solidarity in fighting this evil of terrorism".

Speaking at the end of the Brussels summit, he said: "This is a threat that
faces all of us. These events have taken place today in Tunisia and in France
but they can happen anywhere."

David Cameron responds to terror attacks in Tunisia and France

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 4:40 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attacks: Holiday flight turns back MID-AIR following hotel
atrocity;
The plane was heading for Enfidha, the airport nearest the resort where at least
28 have been killed in a shooting

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 306 words


Moment a holiday flight to Tunisia turns back following Sousse terror attack

A flight packed with passengers flying to Tunisia dramatically turned back
mid-air as a result of the terrorist atrocity.

The plane was heading from Brussels to Enfidha in north-eastern Tunisia, the
airport closest to Sousse where at least 28 people have been killed in a
shooting.

FOLLOW OUR LIVE BLOG ON THE TUNISIA TERRORIST ATTACK HERE.

Jetairfly flight TB5017, a Belgian passenger jet, was over Sardinia when it
performed a u-turn and started heading back.

tweet 1

The airline confirmed via its Twitter account that change of plan was "due to
the current terrorist attack in Tunisia".

Reports suggest Tunisian airports may be closed.

The majority of the victims of the mass shooting are suspected to be tourists.

Tour operator Thomas Cook operates a number of holidays to Sousse.

The company is continuing to monitor the situation and take advice from the
Foreign Office about travel to Tunisia.

A spokesman said: "Thomas Cook has been advised of an incident that occurred
earlier today in Sousse, Tunisia.

"At this time, details are not clear as to which property(ies) have been
affected, with conflicting news reports.

"We are currently gathering information and will provide an update as soon as
possible.

"Our teams on the ground are offering every support to our customers and their
families in the area.

"We will continue to monitor the situation, working closely with the FCO and
local authorities."

The latest Foreign Office guidance advises against all travel to number of areas
in the North African country.

See the full list here.

Brits due to travel to Tunisia are inundating airlines and airports with
questions about whether they should travel.

Airports including Gatwick and Cardiff are advising passengers to contact their
operators for the latest information.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 4:05 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: David Cameron summons Cobra over Sousse hotel attack and
Grenoble ISIS beheading;
Cameron expressed his solidarity with the French people over the assault on a
gas factory and later will offer condolences to Tunisian government over beach
hotel shootings in the resort of Sousse

BYLINE: By Jason Beattie

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 593 words


David Cameron today said more must be done to confront the "death cult" behind
the terror attacks in Tunisia and France.

He said too many young people were having their minds "poisoned" by a radical
Islamist narrative that was turning them to violence.

The horror in Tunisia and Grenoble "fitted into this pattern of extremism
Islamism and violence," he said at the EU summit in Brussels.

Mr Cameron added: "We have to combat not only the terrorism, not only working
with the countries that are suffering but dealing with this poisonous mindset,
this death cult that is poisoning young minds and turning them to this path of
mindless violence."

The PM also announced the Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond would be chairing a
meeting of the emergency committee Cobra to coordinate Britain's response to the
outrages.

This would include working with the security services in case of an attack in
the UK and offering intelligence and support to France and Tunisia.

Read more: Live updates as Brit holidaymakers caught up in terrorist rampage

Read more: 'ISIS' Grenoble beheading: Live updates

Mr Cameron said it was too early to know if the attacks were linked. He said he
had spoken to President Hollande at the summit to offer "our sympathy and
solidarity at this terrible time."

David Cameron responds to terror attacks in Tunisia and France

Mr Cameron said he also planned to speak later to the Tunisian government.

"Our hearts go out to the victims of these appalling terrorist acts. This is a
threat that faces all of us these events have taken place today in Tunisia and
in France but they can happen anywhere," he added.

"We have to deal, perhaps more important than anything, with this poisonous
radical narrative that is turning so many young minds and we have to combat it
with everything we have," he said.

He went on: "People who do these things sometimes say they do it in the name of
Islam. They don't. Islam is a religion of peace.

"They do it in the name of a twisted and perverted ideology that we have to
confront with everything that we have and have to stop the poisoning of young
minds in our country and other European countries and around the world," he
said.

One gunman was killed and another is being pursued following the attack in the
town of Sousse, a popular holiday destination for Britons.

Thomas Cook, which has holidaymakers in the resort, said: "Thomas Cook has been
advised of an incident that occurred earlier today in Sousse, Tunisia.

Footage from the scene as terrorists attack hotels in Tunisia

"At this time, details are not clear as to which property(ies) have been
affected, with conflicting news reports.

Sunday Mirror Production 28th June 2015

"We are currently gathering information and will provide an update as soon as
possible. Our teams on the ground are offering every support to our customers
and their families in the area.

"We will continue to monitor the situation, working closely with the FCO and
local authorities."

In Grenoble, French authorities have revealed that one of the suspected Islamic
terrorists accused of carrying out the attack was known to police.

The victim's severed head was found stalked on a gate at the entrance of a gas
factory in the town in south west France, with a message written on it,
reportedly in Arabic.

French officials said two men in a car had earlier crashed into the factory site
and ploughed into gas canisters, sparking an explosion, at around 10am local
time.

Two other people were injured in the incident which president Hollande described
as having "all the hallmarks of a terrorist attack".

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 2:35 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Irish mum reveals terror as she grabbed children and ran
from violence;
Elizabeth O'Brien, in Tunis with her two young sons, has barricaded herself in
their hotel room as they are too afraid to venture out

BYLINE: By Claire Healy

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


A mother has revealed the terrifying moment she grabbed her two children and ran
from the Tunisian terror attack at a five star resort.

Elizabeth O'Brien, from Dublin, is holidaying in Tunis with her two young sons,
reports the Irish Mirror.

She is now barricaded in their hotel room as they are too afraid to venture out.

In an earlier statement, the Interior Ministry has confirmed that 19 people have
died in the attack.

An interior ministry official has told Reuters news agency the attack has
claimed at least 27 lives.

Elizabeth said she thought the gunshots were fireworks, but soon realised it was
something much more serious.

She said: "I thought it was fireworks and then I thought 'Oh my God' it sounds
like gunfire. FOLLOW LIVE UPDATES HERE

"I ran to the sea to my children and grabbed our things and, as I was running
towards the hotel, the waiters and the security on the beach started shouting
'Run, run, run'.

"We ran to our room, which is like a little bungalow, so we are actually trapped
in our room, because we have no contact the phone here doesn't work to call
reception.

"The consul from Madrid who is over Tunisia as well said it is a terrorist
attack in the hotel next door.

"He told me to stay put, my travel agent told me to go to reception to speak to
the rep but I'm afraid so I'm stuck in the room with my two sons not knowing
what to do or what's going on.

"It was isolated to a hotel, that's what my travel agent told me, and then the
Consul told me it was a terrorist attack.

"I just heard the noise on the beach, I didn't see anyone go down because I just
ran as soon as I heard the noise.

"I don't know what's happening now, I'm sort of cut off from the world.

"I honestly thought it was fireworks, and then when I saw the people take off
the ballooning thing and start running, I just thought of the museum incident
that happened a few months ago and I thought 'my God, it is a shooting.'

"We just ran, I just thought I need to get my children safe."

At least 60 Irish people are believed to have travelled to Tunisia with one
holiday company, and a further 60 could have travelled with another company.

Tunisia hotel guest describes panic amid reports of terror attack

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 2:34 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Shocking pictures show bodies lying on beach as
eyewitnesses tell of terror;
WARNING - GRAPHIC IMAGES: At least 28 people have been killed in a terror attack
on hotels in a popular Tunisian tourist resort

BYLINE: By Anthony Bond

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 527 words


These shocking pictures show bodies strewn across a popular beach after dozens
of tourists were killed in a horrifying terror attack in Tunisia today.

At least 28 people have been killed in a terror attack on hotels in a popular
Tunisian tourist resort.

The horrifying images show the devastating scene on the beach following the
attack.

A gunman has been killed with British holidaymakers sharing their terror on
social media.

Tunisia hotel attack: Horrific aftermath on the beach as terrorists at least 28
tourists were shot dead

Another suspected terrorist in now being pursued by authorities.

Initially tourists thought the noise from the shots were firecrackers, but the
resort has been gripped by panic since they realised they were gunshots.

The attack was on the Imperial Marhaba hotel, local radio stations have said.

One wrote on Twitter: "Actual terrorist attack on the beach next to my hotel.
Gunshots and grenades going off all over the place.

Follow our live updates here

"Sat in the pool and hear a noise like a gun, then an explosion then multiple
shots and staff getting us back to the rooms."

The city is on holiday operator Thomson's list of prime destinations for Brits
and the hotel has air-conditioned rooms, balconies, satellite TV and
round-the-clock room service.

The Foreign Office has no-go zones for Tunisia but advises British travellers
the north-eastern section, where the resort city is, is relatively safe.

Footage from the scene as terrorists attack hotels in Tunisia

An eyewitness at the Palm Marina Hotel near Sousse, told Sky: "My sister was
talking to someone who had seen some people shooting and had shot someone on a
sun bed but we don't know if that's true.

"It sounded like a machine gun going off... and there was a kind of explosion a
little bit later.

"They're saying its going on in the hotel next to us. Police were chasing some
men, that's all I know."

One tourist who heard an explosion while sunbathing by the pool told Sky News:
"We heard people saying there were guns on the beach and people were shooting on
the beach. I don't know what's going on.

"I went to reception and they said the police have told us to get everyone
inside.

"About five minutes ago I saw some people running. There are some people on the
roof but I think that's a representative from the hotel.

"No one is injured that I can see."

The resort is on the north east coast of the African country and the city's
medieval fortress and mosque are a world heritage site.

Tunisia has been on high alert since March when Islamist militant gunmen
attacked the Bardo museum in Tunis.

They killed a group of foreign tourists in one of the worst attacks in a decade
in the North African country.

Another Brit who has locked himself in his hotel room told Sky: "We were sat by
the swimming pool and all of a sudden saw people running towards the hotel.

"The beach is a 2/3minute walk from the hotel. We were half way between the pool
and the hotel and heard an explosion.

"We don't know what's going on. We heard people saying there were people
shooting on the beach. I don't know Police told us to get inside."

Tunisia hotel guest describes panic amid reports of terror attack

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 1:55 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: British tourist's terror as 28 die amid 'gunshots and
grenades' at beach resort;
WARNING: This story contains graphic images which some readers may find
disturbing. One gunman has been killed, while a manhunt is underway for another
suspect

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 902 words


At least 28 people have been killed in a terror attack on hotels in a popular
Tunisian tourist resort.

Two gunmen opened fire at a beach in the resort of Sousse this morning.

One of the gunmen was killed and police are pursuing the other, interior
ministry spokesman Mohammed Ali Aroui said.

Initially tourists thought the noise from the shots were firecrackers, but the
resort has been gripped by panic since they realised they were gunshots.

One of the hotels that were attacked is the Imperial Marhaba hotel, local radio
stations have said.

A holidaymaker wrote on Twitter: "Actual terrorist attack on the beach next to
my hotel. Gunshots and grenades going off all over the place.

Follow our live updates here

"Sat in the pool and hear a noise like a gun, then an explosion then multiple
shots and staff getting us back to the rooms."

A British holidaymaker staying in a hotel close to where the incident happened
told Sky News: "The beach tends to be full up very quickly so it's the usual
story of getting down to lay your towel at half past six to get a decent beach
position, so all of the beach positions were taken.

"It's quite a busy beach.

"There's a lot of people walking up and down, taking in this lovely weather, so
it's a very busy beach, but as I said it became apparent very quick that it was
something more than firecrackers when you could hear bullets whizzing around."

The city is on holiday operator Thomson's list of prime destinations for Brits
and the hotel has air-conditioned rooms, balconies, satellite TV and
round-the-clock room service.

David Cameron responds to terror attacks in Tunisia and France

Prime Minister David Cameron has said there will be an emergency COBRA committee
meeting this afternoon following the attacks.

Addressing the events while at the European Council, he said: "This is a threat
that faces all of us. These events that have taken place today in Tunisia and
France can happen anywhere," he says.

"We've got to do all we can to help. That means cooperating on
counter-terrorism... and dealing with the threat at source.

"We have to deal with this poisonous radical narrative that is turning so many
young minds.

"The people who do these things sometimes claim they do it in the name of Islam.
They don't. Islam is a religion of peace.

"They do it in the name of a twisted and perverted ideology that we have to
confront with everything we have."

The Foreign Office has no-go zones for Tunisia but advises British travellers
the north-eastern section, where the resort city is, is relatively safe.

Susan Rickett, at the Palm Marina Hotel near Sousse, told Sky: "My sister was
talking to someone who had seen some people shooting and had shot someone on a
sun bed but we don't know if that's true.

"It sounded like a machine gun going off... and there was a kind of explosion a
little bit later.

"They're saying its going on in the hotel next to us. Police were chasing some
men, that's all I know."

One tourist who heard an explosion while sunbathing by the pool told Sky News:
"We heard people saying there were guns on the beach and people were shooting on
the beach. I don't know what's going on.

"I went to reception and they said the police have told us to get everyone
inside."

The resort is on the north east coast of the African country and the city's
medieval fortress and mosque are a world heritage site.

A woman on holiday with her two sons in the resort described how she grabbed her
children and ran for their lives when they heard gunfire erupting from one of
the hotels.

"We were on the beach, my sons were in the sea and I just got out of the sea. It
was about 12 o'clock and I just looked up about 500 metres from me and I saw a
(hot air) balloon collapse down, then rapid firing, then I saw two of the people
who were going to go up in the balloon start to run towards me - because I
thought it was fireworks," the Dubliner told RTE Radio.

"So, I thought 'oh my God, it sounds like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to
my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the
waiters and the security on the beach started saying 'run, run run!' and we just
ran to our room, which is like a little bungalow.

"So we are actually trapped in our room."

Tunisia has been on high alert since March when Islamist militant gunmen
attacked the Bardo museum in Tunis.

They killed a group of foreign tourists in one of the worst attacks in a decade
in the North African country.

Another Brit who locked himself in his hotel room told Sky: "We were sat by the
swimming pool and all of a sudden saw people running towards the hotel.

"The beach is a 2/3minute walk from the hotel. We were half way between the pool
and the hotel and heard an explosion.

"We don't know what's going on. We heard people saying there were people
shooting on the beach. I don't know Police told us to get inside."

Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles south of the
capital, Tunisa.

Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn by the hotels, sandy
beaches and culture.

Hotel complexes with 40,000 beds span from the old city to the Port El Kantaoui
and the city is home to a Unesco-protected mosque, as well as a historic medina.

Boujaafar Beach stretches from the Gulf of Hammamet several miles north to Port
El Kantaoui - a purpose-built resort with dozens of hotels including the El
Mouradi Palm Marina, El Mouradi Palace and Riu Imperial Marhaba.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 26, 2015 Friday 11:26 AM GMT

'ISIS' Grenoble beheading: Victim decapitated at French gas factory in '
terrorist attack';
The attack comes after January's tragic Charlie Hebdo attacks, which saw 12 die
in a raid on the satirical newspapers office

BYLINE: By John Shammas

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 435 words


An attack at a US gas factory in France has left one decapitated in a possible
terrorist attack, with the victim's head found impaled on a fence according to
locals.

French authorities have launched a terrorism investigation after the beheaded
body was found at the factory, along with a flag bearing Islamist inscriptions.

It is claimed that Arabic writing was found on the head, and French Interior
Minister Bernard Cazeneuve is now heading to the site.

There has been one arrest made by police officers, understood to be in his 30s
and known to the authorities.

One man died and around a dozen are thought to have been injured at the scene in
the town of Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, around 20 miles from the city of Lyon.

Two men drove into the main gate of the factory soon after 10am, before driving
around in circles throwing gas cylinders around the main yard, according to
reports.

Follow our live updates here.

One of the men then jumped out of the car, according, and then 'decapitated a
man'.

An Islamic flag - possibly that of Islamic State - was seen next to the dead
body, with the man's head found 30ft from the corpse.

Prime Minister David Cameron expressed his sympathies over the incident to
French President Francois Hollande.

The two leaders spoke in Brussels, where they are attending a European Council
summit.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "He expressed his sympathies for what looks
like an appalling incident.

"Details are still emerging, so we wait to see those. But it clearly looks an
extremely concerning situation and our thoughts are with all those affected by
it."

A local businessman, Eric Coquet, has spoken to thelocal.fr, saying: "We didn't
see anything, but we heard the explosion.

"It was like a lorry backfiring. The police are everywhere it looks like they
are still searching for people."

A woman called Sylvie who works opposite the factory told IBTimes: "Our company
is just in front of Air Products and the explosion made our entire building
vibrate.

"There was no damage, but everything moved. I was on my chair on the phone with
a clients when it happened when it happened."

The employee confirmed the authorities had not yet advised those in the
perimeter around Air Products whether to stay indoors or vacate the area.

"The security forces haven't yet come to tell us what to do. I just hope that we
won't face the effects of the gas explosion," she added.

If confirmed as a terror attack, it would be the second major incident in France
this year.

Islamist gunmen killed 17 people in January in attacks on the offices of the
Charlie Hebdo satirical weekly and a Jewish food store.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

North Yorkshire and County Durham tourists tell of their experiences during
Tunisia terror attack that left 15 Britons dead

BYLINE: Matt Westcott

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1352 words


A NORTH Yorkshire woman has told how she fled the scene of the Tunisian beach
terror attack which left 15 Britons dead.

Authorities said 38 holidaymakers were killed in the Tunisian beach massacre.

Prime Minister David Cameron has warned that the public should be "prepared for
the fact that many of those killed were British".

Scotland Yard today said police travelled to Tunisia to help investigate the
killings and officers are also interviewing tourists returning at British
airports.

Holiday firm Tui, which runs the Thomson and First Choice brands, said that a
number of those who died were its customers.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui was said to have laughed and joked as he targeted
British and French tourists and sprayed them with gunfire. He was shot dead by
police.

Speaking to ITV Tyne Tees from the resort of Sousse, Ellie Makin, from Ripon,
said: "I was on a sunbed on the beach when I happened to look right. All I saw
was a gun and an umbrella being dropped and then he started firing to the right
hand side of us.

"If he'd fired to the left, I don't know what would have happened.


Picture: ITV Tyne Tees

Ellie, pictured right, and her friend Debbie Horsfall fled the beach but back at
the hotel the gunman appeared below them in the foyer and the shooting started
again.

"We got split up at this point. I ran into someone's room and hid," said Ellie.

"I think we're quite lucky."

The attackers rushed into the Imperial Marhaba hotel in the resort town of
Sousse in the latest attack on the North African country's key tourism industry.
At least six other people were wounded.

The fatalities include also include Tunisians, Germans and Belgians, Tunisia's
Health Ministry said this afternoon.

Wielding Kalashnikovs, the gunmen entered from the beach, said ministry
spokesman Mohammed Ali Aroui.

Security forces responded, killing one of the attackers, while the hunt for the
second is continuing, he said.

"A terrorist infiltrated the buildings from the back before opening fire on the
residents of the hotel, including foreigners and Tunisians," he told the state
news agency.

During the holy month of Ramadan Tunisia's Muslim population is less likely to
go the beach, so those there would have been predominantly foreign tourists.

Local radio said most of the dead were German or British.

One gunman was said to have been killed and another was pursued in the resort, a
popular holiday destination for Britons.

The outrage took place in the popular resort of Al-Qantawi in the city of
Sousse, about 80 miles from the capital Tunis on the Mediterranean coast.

Former soldier Steve Walls, from Malton, in North Yorkshire, was staying with
his wife Jacqui in the resort and helped gunshot victims on the beach, Mr Walls
said he fled when he saw the gunmen advancing on his position.

Mr Walls, 60, then faced an agonising two-hour wait for news of his wife Jacqui,
who had been sheltering in a nearby hotel.

The couple were halfway through a two-week holiday, staying at the Riu Belleview
Park hotel, when the attackers struck.

Mr Walls heard shots and ran towards the beach in search of his wife, as crowds
ran away.

"I didn't think of my own safety, I knew there would be people injured," he
said.

"I was trying to find Jacqui and trying to comfort people who were injured. I
put a tourniquet on a woman's shoulder, and helped a man with a gunshot wound to
his stomach."

Jennifer Brown, who works for The Northern Echo and is from Darlington, was
staying in the neighbouring resort of Monastir, about 15 minutes walk away.

She said: "Within minutes people started getting phone calls from worried
relatives back home.

"The beach just emptied. Now it's like a ghost town out there - we can see armed
police patrolling the beach from our hotel balcony."

Thomas Cook, which has holidaymakers in the resort, said: "We are currently
gathering information and will provide an update as soon as possible. Our teams
on the ground are offering every support to our customers and their families in
the area."


ATTACK: Injured people are treated on a Tunisian beach. Picture: Tunisia TV1

Meanwhile, in France an attacker with suspected ties to French Islamic radicals
rammed a car into a gas factory, and the severed head of his boss was hung from
a post at the entrance, officials said.

Two more people were injured in the attack in in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier,
south-east of Lyon, authorities said.

President Francois Hollande, speaking in Brussels, said the attack began when a
car crashed through the gate of the factory and ploughed into gas canisters,
touching off an explosion.

"No doubt about the intention - to cause an explosion," he said, calling the
attack "of a terrorist nature".

Interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve said a man who had been flagged in 2006 for
suspected ties to extremists was seized by an alert firefighter, and was one of
multiple people in custody after the attack.

A security official said the victim was the head of a local transportation
company who is believed to have been killed before the explosion. His name was
not released.

Authorities said his body was found near the site of the attack.

Mr Cazeneuve said: "People who could have participated in this abject crime are
in custody."

He added that the suspect was known to intelligence services who had him under
surveillance from 2006 to 2008. The man is from the Lyon region, he said.


One of the injured is carries from the beach on a sun lounger

The head was found staked on a gate at the factory's entrance, in what appeared
to be an echo of the Islamic State group's practice of beheading prisoners and
displaying their heads for all to see.

An official said two flags - one white and one black, both with Arabic
inscriptions - were found nearby.

The industrial site belongs to Air Products, a US chemical company based in
Allentown, Pennsylvania.

France went on high alert after attacks in January against the satirical
newspaper Charlie Hebdo, a kosher grocery store and a policewoman that left 20
people dead in the Paris region, including three Islamic extremist attackers.

Since then, fears of copycat attacks have risen. One person was arrested after
authorities said he was plotting to target churches in the Paris region. Mr
Cazeneuve said security has been heightened at religious sites around the
country.

Meanwhile, Tunisia has been plagued by terror attacks since overthrowing its
secular dictator in 2011, although they have only recently targeted the vital
tourism sector.

In March, two gunmen attacked the national museum in Tunis killing at least 22
people, all but one of them tourists. A group pledging allegiance to the radical
Islamic State group claimed that attack and promised more in Tunisia.

Tourism is a major part of the Tunisian economy, especially in coastal resorts
like Sousse and it suffered in the aftermath of the 2011 revolution.

Mr Cameron, who today chaired a second meeting of the Government's emergency
Cobra committee, said his "thoughts and prayers are with the loved ones of those
killed or injured".

Speaking in Downing Street, he said: "These savage terrorist attacks in Tunisia,
Kuwait and France are a brutal and tragic reminder of the threat faced around
the world from these evil terrorists."

Undated handout screengrab taken from the SITE Intelligence Group website
purporting to show the Tunisian hotel gunman Seifeddine Rezgui

He added: "We are working with the Tunisian authorities to identify the final
number of British casualties but I'm afraid that the British public need to be
prepared for the fact that many of those killed were British."

Mr Cameron insisted "we will defeat" Islamic extremists waging terror around the
world.

Speaking outside the Tui UK building near Gatwick Airport today, Peter Long,
joint CEO of Tui Group, said he was "deeply, deeply shocked".

"And our whole organisation is reeling with pain to see the suffering that has
taken place in Tunisia."

He added that the company's directors from locations across the UK confirmed
that so far it has repatriated 1,000 customers and that 5,400 still remained in
the area, with everything being done to help those who wanted to return to get
on flights.



LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 2:38 PM BST

TIMELINE OF THE TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Press Association Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 464 words


Terrorists have carried out three bloody attacks within the space of three hours
hours in France, Tunisia and Kuwait.

The timing is likely to fuel speculation that the attacks, on the Muslim holy
day, may have been coordinated.

About 0900 BST

An attack is launched on a gas factory in south eastern France. A man is
decapitated outside the entrance to the factory and banners written in Arabic
are found at the scene.

1124: David Cameron speaks to French President Francois Hollande at the EU
summit in Brussels to express his sympathies over what Downing Street described
as the ``appalling incident'' near Grenoble.

Soon afterwards President Hollande breaks off from summit negotiations to tell
reporters the incident had ``all the hallmarks of a terrorist attack'' and that
the suspect in custody had been identified.

Announcing that he is returning to Paris immediately, he said there was ``no
doubt'' the terrorists, one man and an accomplice, meant to cause an explosion
at the factory using gas cannisters, adding that France would ``never give into
fear''.

Shortly after midday Friday prayers (1000BST)

A deadly explosion strikes a Shiite mosque in the Kuwaiti capital. A posting on
a Twitter account known to belong to the Islamic State group said the attack was
carried out by a suicide bomber wearing an explosive belt.

Eyewitnesses describe seeing at least 10 bodies after the explosion, which took
place just after midday Friday prayers, typically the most crowded of the week,
especially during the holy Muslim month of Ramadan, which started last week.

approximately 1200 BST

Terrorists launch attacks on two hotels in the Tunisian resort of Sousse.
British tourists are feared to be among the 27 people killed. Eyewitnesses
describe shooting on the beach. One holidaymaker posts a photograph on Instagram
showing a man in swimming shorts lying face down in the sand with what looks
like blood in the area around his head.

Elizabeth O'Brien, a Dubliner on holiday with her two sons in the resort,
describes how she grabbed her children and they ran for their lives when they
heard gunfire erupting from one of the hotels. ``I thought 'oh my God, it sounds
like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to my children and grabbed our things
and as I was running towards the hotel, the waiters and the security on the
beach started saying 'run, run run!' and we just ran to our room''.

1355 BST

David Cameron announces that the Government's emergency Cobra committee will
meet this afternoon following the terror attacks in France and Tunisia as he
offers ``our solidarity in fighting this evil of terrorism''.

Speaking at the end of the Brussels summit, he said: ``This is a threat that
faces all of us. These events have taken place today in Tunisia and in France
but they can happen anywhere.''

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 8:50 PM GMT

French terror attack victim 'was suspect's boss'

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 360 words



HIGHLIGHT: Man held after attack in France


A decapitated body covered in Arabic writing was found at a US gas company in
southeast France this morning, after an assailant rammed a car into the
premises, triggering an explosion.

The attacker survived the blast and was arrested.

The identity of the beheaded victim was not clear but French media said it was a
manager of a local transport company, on the site for a delivery.

A source close to the probe said the victim was the attacker's boss.

Speaking from a European Union summit in Brussels, French President Francois
Hollande described it as a terrorist attack and said all measures would be taken
to stop any future strikes on a country still reeling from Islamist assaults in
January.

Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said one suspect, named as Yassin Sahli, had
been arrested, and police were holding other suspected accomplices.

He said Mr Sahli did not have a criminal record but had been under surveillance
from 2006 to 2008 on suspicion of having become radicalised.

"Two individuals deliberately rammed a car into the gas containers to trigger an
explosion," a police source said of the attack in an industrial zone by the town
of Saint-Quentin Fallavier, 30km southeast of Lyon.

The wife of Mr Sahli has also been taken into custody, a legal source said.

However, the number of assailants was thrown into doubt, with Mr Hollande saying
it could have been either one or two.

French media said Mr Sahli is a 35-year-old professional driver who lived in the
Lyon suburbs. There was no official confirmation of that.

It was not known whether the victim, so far the only known fatality in the
incident that also injured two people, was decapitated before or after the car
smashed into the building, or whether the victim had been on site at the time of
the attack, or killed elsewhere.

"The attack was of a terrorist nature since a body was discovered, decapitated
and with inscriptions," Mr Hollande told the news conference.

"We all remember what has happened in our country, and not just in our country.
So there is plenty of emotion. But emotion cannot be the only response - that
must be action, prevention and dissuasion."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2015 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

5 Britons killed in Tunisia beach terror attack

BYLINE: Jane Bradley

LENGTH: 1338  words


A GUNMAN who killed at least 37 people - including British and Irish tourists -
as they sunbathed in a Tunisian beach resort hid a gun in an umbrella and
disguised himself as a holidaymaker, Tunisian authorities have revealed.

The attacker - believed to be an Islamist student from the central region of the
North African country - opened fire on tourists holidaying at a popular beach
­resort in south-eastern Tunisia.

The worst terror incident in Tunisia's history came on the same day a man was
found decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamist extremists on a French
factory and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed, killing at least 25 people.
Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked, they came after the
so-called Islamic State (IS) called on its  followers "to make Ramadan a month
of calamities for the non-believers".

Eyewitnesses in Tunisia reported people fleeing as the attacker, who had hidden
his ­Kalashnikov under a beach umbrella and wore swimwear to blend in, fired on
­holidaymakers staying at hotels in the beach area of Sousse.

Tunisian security forces said the gunman had entered a hotel through the pool
area, shooting people as he went. Hundreds of people were believed to be
sunbathing on the beach when the attack took place, at around noon local time.

Tunisia's health ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons,
Tunisians, Germans and Belgians. The Irish foreign office has confirmed that one
of those killed was a female Irish national. Thirty-six others have been
wounded.

The interior ministry had previously said two attackers were involved, including
one who fled the scene, but has since said a lone gunman was responsible. He was
reportedly shot dead.

The incident is the second terrorist attack at Sousse, coming less than two
years after a failed attack in October 2013.

o Anyone concerned about friends or relatives in Tunisia can contact the Foreign
Office on 020 7008 0000

Scottish holidaymakers Diane Boyd, from East Kilbride, and her partner David
Fleming, from Coatbridge, are staying in a hotel next to the beach in Sousse.

Ms Boyd said: "We were on the beach sunbathing when he heard sudden noise which
sounded like gunfire.

"Everyone was running very quickly from the beach into their hotel so we just
got up and ran with them and went into the reception area, which was all quite
hectic. We ended up going up to our room for about an hour and from our balcony
we could see the beach. We could see armed policemen, we could see helicopters,
ambulances and coastguards."

Mr Fleming said: "We heard a barrage of shots. Originally I just thought it was
fireworks, but then people started running. So we just got up and ran with them.
It was quite scary, to be honest."

The couple arrived in the resort, which is popular with British and Irish
tourists, on Sunday.

Olivia Leathley, 24, a chef from Stockport, was with her boyfriend Mike Jones in
her room at the Riu Bellevue Park hotel when she heard "loud bangs" from the
beach. She said: "We heard all these really loud bangs and we joked it was
probably the reps letting off fireworks. We saw all these people running in from
the beach.

"We didn't really know what was happening so we came down to the lobby to find
out what was going on and they said Everybody stay here, we'll let you know what
is going on'.

"We found this girl whose husband had been shot in the stomach in front of her.
She got dragged away by hotel reps trying to get her to safety but she was a
complete mess. She was in hysterics."

She added: "We were all waiting in the lobby, a few hundred of us thinking, what
should we do, waiting for someone to give us instructions. Then, all of a
sudden, from the level just below the lobby there was a huge sound of loads of
machine gun fire and one of the reps just said run'.

"I was crying and we heard the machine gun fire and it was so loud and it seemed
like it was just behind us, it seemed so close. There were about eight of us out
the front just running towards the street then another rep said, Not that way
it's not safe, go that way', so we ran to the left and found this little office
building on the hotel site and we ran in there and got to a room with no windows
and just crouched and waited until they said it was OK."

Secretary of state for security Rafik Chelly said the gunman had disguised
himself as a tourist.

He said: "He is Tunisian, originally from the Kairouan region [in central
Tunisia]. He is a student.

"This person was not known [to us]," he added. "He entered by the beach, dressed
like someone who was going to swim, and he had a beach umbrella with his gun in
it. Then when he came to the beach he used his weapon."

Gary Pine, a British man staying at the resort, tweeted minutes after the
attack: "Gunshots on the beach, mass panic here. Confusion rife."

Two hours later, he reported that helicopters were circling above his hotel, the
El Mouradi Palm Marina.

Mr Pine said his 22-year-old son had just come out of the sea after a game of
volleyball when the attacks occurred. He said there had been a large bang which
holidaymakers had thought was firecrackers and a mass exodus from the beach as
people rushed to safety.

"You could see then quite quickly the panic about 100 yards away, and so then
people started exiting the beach pretty quickly, but only when you can start
hearing bullets around your ears did you start to realise it was something more
serious than firecrackers," he said.

"We do consider ourselves to be lucky in that of the hotels lined up that all
access the same beach area, it seems to be the two hotels to our left and
literally 100 yards down that seem to have been hit," he said.

Tunisia's president, Beji Caid Essebsi, said: "We note that Tunisia faces an
international movement. It cannot respond alone to this.

"On the same day at the same time France has been the target of such an
operation, and Kuwait too. This proves the need for a global strategy and that
all democratic countries must now join forces."

According to the Foreign Office, 424,707 British nationals visited Tunisia in
2014.

A statement from the Foreign Office said: "Gunmen attacked the Imperial Hotel
and Hotel Club Riu Bellevue at Port El Kantaoui, near Sousse. A number of people
have been killed and injured. A British embassy crisis team is on its way to the
area."

o The Foreign Office has set up an emergency number for friends and family of
those who may have been affected, on 020 7008 0000.

Attack latest in string of terrorism incidents

The latest attacks come just months after gunmen attacked a museum in Tunisia's
capital.

On 18 March this year, two gunmen opened fire on guests at the Bardo Museum, a
popular tourist attraction in Tunis, in an attack that left 23 dead and 22
injured, and ended with a seige of the building by Tunisian security forces,
both gunmen being killed after a firefight with armoured police.

The incident was the first major terrorist attack in Tunisia since the popular
uprising in 2011 sparked the "Arab Spring" revolts in Egypt, Syria, and Libya.

The attacks took place as Tunisian lawmakers held a committee meeting in
government building connected to the museum, leading to the evacuation of the
entire parliament.

Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attacks,  calling the terrorists
"knights of the caliphate" and praising their "blessed invasion of one of the
dens of infidels and vice in Muslim Tunisia".

The majority of the victims of the attack on the museum were tourists, with
British mother Sally Adley killed, and Japanese, Italian, German, Polish, French
and Spanish also among the dead.

Meanwhile, a suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in
Sousse in October 2013.

SEE ALSO:

o
{http://www.scotsman.com/news/world/man-decapitated-in-attack-on-french-factory-
1-3813679| Man decapitated in attack on French factory | Link to article}

o
{http://www.scotsman.com/news/world/explosion-rips-through-shiite-mosque-in-kuwa
it-1-3813846 | Explosion rips through Shiite mosque in Kuwait | Link to article}

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Five Britons confirmed dead after terrorist attack in Tunisia

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1301 words


UPDATE: 8pm

At least five Britons have been confirmed dead in the terrorist attack on a
Tunisian holiday resort, with the death toll expected to rise.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said because the resort is popular with
holidaymakers from the UK "we have to assume that a high proportion of those
killed and injured will have been British".

An Irish tourist was also among the 37 people who died in the attack when a
young gunman pulled out a Kalashnikov hidden in a beach parasol and opened fire
on sunbathers at the beach resort of Sousse.

The worst such attack in Tunisia's history came on the same day a man was found
decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory
and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked they come after the
so-called Islamic State called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of
calamities for the nonbelievers".

Tunisia's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons,
Tunisians, Germans and Belgians. Thirty six others have been wounded.

Bodies covered in blankets were strewn across the beach and medical staff used
sun loungers as stretchers to carry away the dead and injured.

Despite initially believing there was more than one gunman, the Tunisian
authorities later said the killer was thought to be a young student who had not
previously been known to their security services.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov to shoot the tourists sunbathing on the
beach at the Riu Bellevue Park.

His killing spree ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his
body.

--------

AT LEAST 27 people have been killed in a terror attack on two hotels in a
Tunisian tourist resort.

One gunman was killed and another is being pursued in the town of Sousse, a
popular holiday destination for Britons.

Photographs have been posted on Instagram showing a man on the beach wearing
blue shorts lying face down in the sand with what looks like blood in the area
around his head.

Empty sun loungers can be seen behind him and there does not appear to be anyone
else near him.

Elizabeth O'Brien, an Irish woman on holiday with her two sons in the resort,
described how she grabbed her children and ran for their lives when they heard
gunfire erupting from one of the hotels.

"We were on the beach, my sons were in the sea and I just got out of the sea. It
was about 12 o'clock and I just looked up about 500 metres from me and I saw a
(hot air) balloon collapse down, then rapid firing, then I saw two of the people
who were going to go up in the balloon start to run towards me - because I
thought it was fireworks," the Dubliner told RTE Radio.

"So, I thought 'oh my God, it sounds like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to
my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the
waiters and the security on the beach started saying 'run, run run!' and we just
ran to our room, which is like a little bungalow.

"So we are actually trapped in our room."

Ms O'Brien said the Irish consul in Madrid, Spain, called her to say it was a
terrorist attack in the hotel next door and told her to stay where she was.

"My travel agent told me to go to the reception to speak to the rep, but I'm
afraid. I'm stuck in the room with my two sons, not knowing what's going on,"
she said.

The Foreign Office said it is aware of the reports and was investigating.

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists.

Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis. Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn
by the hotels, sandy beaches and culture.

Thomas Cook, which has holidaymakers in the resort, said: "Thomas Cook has been
advised of an incident that occurred earlier today in Sousse, Tunisia.

"At this time, details are not clear as to which property(ies) have been
affected, with conflicting news reports.

"We are currently gathering information and will provide an update as soon as
possible. Our teams on the ground are offering every support to our customers
and their families in the area.

"We will continue to monitor the situation, working closely with the FCO and
local authorities."

British holidaymaker Gary Pine is staying in the El Mouradi Palm Marina hotel
close to where the incident happened.

Situated at the back of the hotel, near the pool area, he told Sky News by phone
that he could no longer hear any noise and said the hotel was "very, very quiet"
at that stage, but said it would have been very busy.

"The beach tends to be full up very quickly so it's the usual story of getting
down to lay your towel at half past six to get a decent beach position, so all
of the beach positions were taken," he said.

Mr Pine said that at the front of his hotel alone there would have been "several
hundred" people, and he said he could see every resort along and there would
have been "several hundred" more outside the others.

"So it's quite a busy beach.

"There's a lot of people walking up and down, taking in this lovely weather, so
it's a very busy beach, but as I said it became apparent very quick that it was
something more than firecrackers when you could hear bullets whizzing around,"
he said.

It is believed there are scores of Irish holidaymakers in Sousse at the moment.

While Dublin's Department of Foreign Affairs could not immediately confirm the
number of citizens in the resort, it said there were no reports at this stage of
any Irish hurt.

"Our embassy in Madrid and our Honorary Consul in Tunis are monitoring the
situation in Sousse, Tunisia and are providing updates," a spokeswoman said.

"We are currently not aware of any Irish citizens involved in the incident.

"Anyone with concerns about family or friends can call the Department on 01 408
2000."

Holiday brands Thomson and First Choice said they were "aware of a suspected
terrorist incident in Tunisia".

They added: "We are working closely with our teams in Tunisia and the relevant
authorities to determine exactly what has happened and provide assistance to
those affected.

"More information will be released as it becomes available."

A suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in Sousse in
October 2013, while 21 people lost their lives in an attack in the country
earlier this year.

One Brit was killed in the terrorist attack in March at the Bardo National
museum in Tunis, where gunmen stormed the tourist attraction and sparked a
three-hour siege.

The country has undergone unprecedented social and political change since the
2011 uprisings and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office says there is a "high"
threat from terrorism.

Maajid Nawaz, chairman of the counter-extremist Quilliam Foundation, told Sky
News: "I think what has been happening in France is connected to what has been
happening in Tunisia and elsewhere.

"It appears to be at the moment a coordinated attack by Isis on soft targets
across the world."

A spokeswoman for Thomson and First Choice said: "We are working closely with
our teams in Tunisia and the relevant authorities to determine exactly what has
happened and provide assistance to those affected."

Gary Pine later told Sky News: "My 22-year-old son had just gone back into the
sea after a game of volleyball and then over to my left about 100 yards away we
saw what we thought was firecrackers going off so we thought someone was
celebrating.

"But you could see then quite quickly the panic that was starting to ensue from
the next resort along from us which is about 100 yards away and so then people
started exiting the beach pretty quickly, but only when you can start hearing
bullets around your ears did you start to realise it was something more serious
than firecrackers."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 6:55 PM GMT

UK terror threat: EU chief claims terror attack cannot be ruled out

BYLINE: Standard Reporter

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 369 words


The head of the European Union's law enforcement agency admitted a terrorist
attack in the UK cannot be ruled out as he reassured there would be tighter
security measures.

Rob Wainwright, director of Europol, said up to 5,000 people have travelled from
Europe to Syria and Iraq because they were possibly radicalised.

Asked on Sky News whether he was saying there was no guarantee attacks such as
those in Paris could be stopped, he said: "No, there can't be, otherwise what
happened in Paris wouldn't have happened. I think there is a realisation across
the police and security community in Europe.

"But at the same time we have a very strong determination to maximise our
capability to keep our citizens safe."

He said the scale of the problem had increased over the last 10 years. The
terrorists no longer had a coherent, identifiable command and control structure
such as in the past.

"But over those 10 years, the sophistication of the police response has also
increased."

His comments came after Prime Minister David Cameron and US president Barack
Obama held talks in Washington on how to tackle the terrorist threat.

Related stories

Mr Cameron pushed for tougher requirements for internet firms to alert
authorities to suspicious online exchanges, ban encrypted communications and
store data.

A report last year into the murder of Fusilier Lee Rigby concluded that Facebook
failed to pass on information that could have prevented his death.

The American firm had previously shut down accounts belonging to one of the
killers, Michael Adebowale, because he had discussed terrorism - but did not
raise concerns with the security services.

The two leaders agreed to establish a new joint group to exchange information
and expertise on countering the rise of violent extremism.

Asked how big the encrypted communication problem was, Mr Wainwright said:
"We've been engaged at Europol in combating various forms of cyber crime online
for the last two years or more. It's clear that the internet is becoming of
increasing utility to criminal networks.

"The nature of encrypted communication makes it more difficult for police to
intercept this communication online than to intercept telephone communication in
the real world."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 26, 2015 Friday 11:36 PM GMT

French attack: Country faces fresh horror over decapitation and factory
explosions;
The facts so far of Islamist terror attack on liquid gas chemical in
southeastern France as raids continue on potential accomplices of prime suspect
Yassin Salhi

BYLINE: By Henry Samuel Paris and Rory Mulholland in St Priest

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1424 words


The man decapitated in an apparent Islamist attack on a chemical factory in
south-eastern France  was the assailant's boss, according to French reports, as
police questioned the prime suspect's wife and sister.

The victim, named by French media as Hervé Cornara, 54, ran a delivery company
authorised to enter the Air Products liquid gas factory in
Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, outsid Lyon, where the attack took place on Friday
morning.

In what a police source called a "macabre mise en scene", the unnamed man's head
was found attached to a fence outside the factory, far from the body inside the
site.

Beside it was a black and flag with inscriptions in Arabic, thought to be those
of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant .

Yassin Salhi, 35, the man arrested inside the factory after smashing into liquid
gas canisters causing an explosion and fire, managed to enter the sensitive site
in a vehicle belonging to the company and which had security clearance to do so.
According to security camera footage seen by AFP, he had first planted the head
outisde before entering the plant.

"This was a terrorist attack given that a corpse was found decapitated and with
inscriptions," said president François Hollande, who returned early from a
European summit in Brussels to chair an emergency security meeting on Friday
afternoon.

After ramming some gas tanks at "high speed", Salhi then got out of his vehicle
and ran into a nearby building to try and open the valves of more liquid gas
bottles, in a bid to spark a far bigger explosion.

However, one of two firemen called to the scene tackled the suspect to the floor
as he shouted "Alahou Akbar" (God is Greatest).

Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, called the fireaman's act one of
extreme "bravery and sang-froid". Salhi suffered superficial facial injuries in
the struggle.

Salhi, 35, of North African origin from Saint Priest in eastern Lyon, has "no
criminal record", according to Mr Cazeneuve. He was listed in 2006 as a Salafist
"radical", but went off the radar in 2008. According to RTL, intelligence agents
voiced alarm about his "radicalism" as recently as last year.

Police said that a person "close to" the arrested suspect was detained suspected
of conducting "reconnaissance" at the site before the attack, but later
released.

The suspect's sister and wife were also taken in for questioning. Beforehand,
the wife expressed total ignorance and shock on Europe 1 radio, saying her
husband was at work, apparently doing deliveries.

"My heart is going to stop. I don't know what has happened. Have they arrested
him?" she asked.

"He went to work this morning at 7am. He does deliveries. He did not return
between noon and two, I expect him this afternoon.

"My sister said turn on the television. She was crying," said the young woman.

"I know my husband. We have a normal family life. He goes to work, he comes
back," she said.

"We are normal Muslims. We do Ramadan. We have three children and a normal
family life," said the wife of the suspect.

Shocked neighbours said the Salhi, his wife and three children aged six to nine
were "very discreet". They had arrived in the district around six months ago.

There remain question marks over whether the assailant had acted alone

The Salhi family lived quietly on the ground floor of a four-storey social
housing block in a mixed area of council estates and private detached houses in
this quiet village on the edge of Lyon.

Neighbour Lassaad Ben Hassine, 48, said he often bumped into Mr Salhi on the
street.

"He always sais hello but he never mixed much with the local people," he td the
Telegraph. " The family was very solitary. But his kids played with mine. I'm
astonished to hear this news."

He said the suspect's wife left the house only to take the cours le's three
children to school. Officials said the children, two girls amd a boy, were now
in the care of local authorities.

Other neighbours in this community, which has a large proprtion of people of
north African origin, also said the Salhi family were reserved and kept to
themselves.

The mayor of St Priest, Gilles Gascon of Nicolas Sarkozy's Republicans party,
said he was angry that the suspect had been dropped from a watch list by
intelligence services in 2008.

"People like that should not be left at large," he said, criticising what he
said were the "gaps" in the security measures put in place by President François
Hollande's Socialist government after terror attacks in Paris in January .

One young local Muslim man was furious after hearing news of the attack.

"To carry out such an attack on a Friday during the holy month of Ramadan is not
respectful of Islam," said Mehdi, a 23-year-old Frenchman of Algerian parents.

"These people may say they are Muslims but they are not," said Mehdi, who was
dressed in a long white dejellaba and who said he lived around 100 yards from
the scene of the attack.

"I am angry. They have no right to set off bombs beside our homes where our
children live."

Mr Hollande said: "The attack carried out by one person, perhaps accompanied by
someone else rammed at high speed this establishment, which is classified and
contains gas tanks. The intention leaves no room for doubt: it was to provoke an
explosion. This was a terrorist attack given that a corpse was found decapitated
and with inscriptions."

Saying he expressed "solidarity" with the victim, who according to a security
source was of "European" descent, saying that the attack was all the more
painful given the Islamist attacks of January in Paris in which 17 were killed,
which rocked the nation.

"Everyone remembers what happened in our country, and not only in our country,
and there is emotion," he said.

"But emotion cannot be the only response: we need action, prevention dissuasion
and the necessity to carry our values and never give in to fear."

He said "all necessary precautions" had been taken to ward against any other
attacks and that France's "vigipirate" terror plan had been put on maximum alert
in the Rhône area.

Manuel Valls, the prime minister, who is on a tour of South America, called on
sensitive sites in the Rhône-Alpes region to remain "highly vigilant" in case of
follow-up attacks.

"France has been struck again by terror," says Mr Valls, who is cutting short
the trip to return to Paris.

"The terrorists' threats and blind horrors spare no nation. My thoughts go to
the victims of Isère and the victims in Tunisia (where 27 people were gunned
down by Islamists on Friday)," he said from Colombia.

Patrick Menucci, Socialist MP of the Bouches-du-Rhône area, was far more blunt.
"France is at war," said the man who led a recent parliamentary inquiry into
jihadist networks.

"I know it's not good to say so, but this terror attack in
Saint-Quentin-Fallavier is the proof," he told Le Monde.

"We have on our territory individuals who don't obey the laws of the Republic
but fatwas of the Islamic State," said Mr Menucci, two months after the Senate
issued figures suggesting that half of all Europeans having left the continent
to wage jihad in the Middle East were French.

In all 1,683 French nationals are in some way implicated in the fighting - a 203
per cent increase in the number in a year.

Mr Menuccis said while he was "horrified" by the attack, he wasn't "surprised".

"In the parliaementary report...we warned of the risks of attack. France is the
most threatened country in Europe, notably because it defends secularism."

Mr Cazeneuve recently said that 278 French nationals had left Syria, of which
213 have already returned to France and others were returning each week and even
on a daily basis.

Last month the French PM warned that France could be at risk of these kind of
suicide attacks being replicated on French soil and pointed that at least six of
French nationals who had undertaken the kamikaze raids were recent converts to
Islam.

Mr Menucci said in this case it appeared the attacker was not a returning jihadi
but part of a "sleeper cell", like Mohammed Merah, the Toulouse killer.

He said the difficulty was knowing whether such people had any "real links" with
Isil or were "connected via internet and decide to follow on their own iniative
the fatwa, which I remind people calls on them to strike France and the French".

It is unclear why the Air Products factory, a US-based company, was targeted. It
is classified as a "low level" site under the EU Seveso classification. This
means that it is carries industrial risks but that the quantity of hazardous
material remains limited.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 9:07 PM GMT

Britain on heightened security alert in wake of France, Tunisia and Kuwait
attacks;
Counter-terrorism officials announce there will be extra security at London
Pride and Armed Forces Day this weekend

BYLINE: By Camilla Turner

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 566 words


Britain has been placed on a heightened security alert as police announce there
will be additional security measures at public events this weekend in the wake
of Friday's terror attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait.

These include the annual Pride event in London, to which more than 750,000
people attended last year, and Armed Forces day which is celebrating the work of
the military at events across the country.

· Tunisia attack - latest

Senior counter-terror officer Deputy Assistant Commissioner Helen Ball said the
threat to the UK from international terrorism is "severe" and the measures were
designed to "protect and reassure" the public.

On Friday night the Foreign Office urged tourists in at the Imperial Hotel and
Hotel Club Riu Bellevue in Tunisia to stay indoors and not advertise their
location as attackers might still be at large, following shootings on the beach
left at least 37 dead including a number of Britons.

Travel companies and airlines announced that holidaymakers who are about to fly
to Tunisia could change their plans free of charge.

The Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) said there are around 20,000
visitors in the country at the moment, excluding those tourists who have
travelled there independently.

· Tunisia: lessons weren't learnt after Bardo shooting

Some tourists last night expressed their frustration with their travel companies
for "leaving them in the dark" as events unfolded.

Aaron Smith, 29, from Liverpool, who is staying at the Marhaba Royal Salem Hotel
with his girlfriend down the road from where the attacks took place, said: "We
haven't been given any information.

"We've had no update from our Thomas Cook reps. There are around 20 of us who
booked with them and we were meant to have a meeting on Friday evening, but they
didn't show up."

Mr Smith, who works for Enterprise Rent-a-Car, was about to set off for lunch
with his girlfriend and a Welsh couple in Port El Kantaoui - where the shooting
took place - when he heard about the shootings.

"It has been really shocking and we are still shaken up and desperate to go
home," he said.

Thomas Cook said: "We can confirm that the reported hotels are not offered by
Thomas Cook, and that none of our customers or staff were in residence at the
time of the incident.

"However, we do currently have customers staying in other parts of the resort,
and our experienced teams on the ground are continuing to offer every support to
them and their families at this difficult time.

"Thomas Cook would like to extend its most sincere condolences to the family and
friends of those affected."

Tourist numbers in Tunisia are thought to have dropped following the attack in
March on the National Bardo Museum which killed 22 people, mostly foreign
tourists including a Briton.

A spokeswoman for Abta said: "Tunisia had just started to recover to the numbers
before the Arab Spring of 2011, but then it had the attacks on the museum in
March.

"It is too early to say what impact it (today's attacks) will have had, but we
nearly always see when there is an incident such as the attack on the museum a
drop-off in short-term bookings.

"This attack is still unfolding so it is far too early to say what the impact
will be, but this kind of incident typically does have an influence on people's
decisions to go on holiday."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 8:17 PM GMT

Were Tunisia, France, Kuwait attacks co-ordinated by Islamic State for Ramadan?;

Only the Kuwait terror attack has been claimed by Isil, but three days before, a
caliphate spokesman urged Sunni Muslims to make Ramadan "a month of disasters
for the kuffar"

BYLINE: By Charlie Winter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 655 words


On Friday morning, Yassin Salhi, a 35-year-old resident of Saint-Priest in Lyon,
attached a disembodied head to the gates of the factory which he visited as part
of his work, before proceeding to set off a series of small bomb blasts,
presumably intending to cause a much larger explosion.

Just minutes after these reports came in, supporters of Islamic State in Iraq
and the Levant, also known as Isil, who were already congratulating Salhi for
his exploits online, began muttering about a bomb attack on the Shia Imam Sadiq
mosque in Kuwait .

An hour later, Isil's Internet supporters reached fever pitch, when it emerged
that a hotel in the Tunisian resort town of Sousse was in the process of being
assaulted by jihadist gunmen .

Of the three attacks, it is only Kuwait's that we know to be linked to Isil: it
was officially claimed by the caliphate's recently minted "Najd Province" - the
Saudi branch of Isil - which named the attacker as Abu Sulayman al-Muwahhid in
its statement. That being said, the other two attacks have tacitly been claimed
by Isil supporters, who commended the efforts of the "lions of the caliphate"
involved.

Usually, the caliphate's online clique exercise caution when an attack is
ongoing - this time, though, they were quick to attribute it to their cause.
Whether or not they are right, they are making these judgments based on a number
of reasons.

There is much to suggest - but nothing to confirm - that all three could have
been, in some respects at least, inspired by Isil: Kuwait's attack was
officially claimed; France's featured a beheading and an "Isil flag"; and
Tunisia's was almost immediately attributed to the "men of the [Isil] State" by
some of the group's most prominent disseminators in Iraq.

Of course, it could emerge that the "Isil flag" in question was in fact al-Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula's, or al-Shabaab's - after all, all three groups use
the same banner. It could also turn out that Tunisia's operation was carried out
by the al-Qaeda-aligned "Uqba Ibn Nafi" Brigade. Until it does, though, Isil
fans will continue to keenly lap up the publicity.

These attacks come at a time of heightened emotion for Isil. On Tuesday, a
statement from the caliphate spokesman Abu Mohammed al-Adnani was circulated
online in which he called for Sunni Muslims to "rush and move to make Ramadan a
month of disasters for the kuffar" .

At a time when it is losing ground in Syria, Iraq and, more latterly, Libya,
Isil's momentum needs a boost. Al-Adnani said the words he did recognising this.
It is precisely for this reason, too, that we are seeing Isil's supporters
clamour to claim credit for these attacks.

If it does turn out that the attackers were inspired by Isil, this does not mean
that they were co-ordinated, let alone planned, by the organisation. The last
few months have resoundingly demonstrated Isil's ability to incite terrorist
operations abroad. Its ideology is at once more accessible and more intoxicating
to its international supporters than that of other jihadist groups.

The totalitarian infusion of utopianism and eschatology, combined with its
blatant disregard for mainstream Muslim public opinion, renders attacks in its
name both more accessible and more urgent. For the Isil enthusiast, statements
like that of al-Adnani on Tuesday act like direct orders.

For a long time, many analysts, myself included, have been warning that the
month of Ramadan would be a violent one. It is something that Isil propaganda
has constantly alluded to in its official messaging, as the organisation's
propagandists have sought to assert its stubborn defiance in the face of the
global coalition and longevity of its political programme.

While it may appear otherwise, attacks like these are not irrational - they lend
momentum to the jihadist cause like nothing else.

Charlie Winter is senior researcher at The Quilliam Foundation

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 7:47 PM GMT

Sousse terrorist attack: injured taken to hospital;
Wounded tourists are taken to hospital following an attack on a beach resort in
Tunisia

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video and AFP, video source APTN

LENGTH: 206 words


British holidaymakers told how they fled in panic from Friday's gun massacre on
a Tunisian beach resort, screaming and running for cover when they realised they
were under attack.

Five Britons were among the 37 dead in the shootings in Port el Kantaoui outside
the town of Sousse.

Survivors told how they were caught by bullets while others were in hysterics as
their wounded partners were rushed to hospital.

Frightened tourists hid in their hotel rooms and barricaded themselves in, while
a pregnant woman went into labour in the confusion.

British tourists caught up in the attack recounted their ordeal to British
media.

One man said he was hit by a bullet.

The Briton, who was not named, appeared to be speaking from a hospital.

"Someone firing a gun, and then I looked at my wife and she got up and ran, and
as I turned a bullet just hit me in my arm, and I just ran to the sea," he said,
in footage on BBC television.

Olivia Leathley, 24, heard "loud bangs" and saw from her hotel room people
fleeing the beach, as holiday company representatives blew whistles.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 7:02 PM GMT

Sousse hotel attack: Tourists' lucky escape from Tunisia terror attack;
British tourist Ellie Makin says the terrorists were running around with guns
and grenades near the room they were supposed to have stayed in

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video and AFP, video source ITN

LENGTH: 100 words


A British tourist has described her lucky escape after gunmen stormed a hotel in
Tunisia, killing at least 37 people.

Ellie Makin described seeing two men with guns, and the ensuing chaos with
people running from the scene.

Other witnesses described scenes of panic and confusion after the shooting at a
hotel in the district of Sousse, about 140 kilometres (87 miles) south of Tunis.

The shooting comes just months after a March attack on the Bardo National Museum
in Tunis killed 21 foreign tourists and a policeman.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 7:02 PM GMT

Islamist terror attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, in pictures;
Islamist terror attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France

LENGTH: 8 words


Islamist terror attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 6:06 PM GMT

France terror attack in Grenoble;
Police respond to terrorist attack in France after one person was beheaded and
several injured at a factory near Grenoble

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video video source APTN

LENGTH: 81 words



     ·    Follow latest developments in our live blog


An attacker carrying an Islamist flag has killed one person and injured several
others today at a gas factory in eastern France.

The suspected attacker is understood to have rammed a vehicle into the gas
factory and set off an explosion.

French President Francois Hollande has denounced the attack as a terrorist act.

The attack comes six months after the Charlie Hebdo attack and the three-day
siege in Paris during which 17 people were killed.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 5:56 PM GMT

French attack: Country faces fresh horror over decapitation and factory
explosions;
The facts so far of Islamist terror attack on liquid gas chemical in
southeastern France as raids continue on potential accomplices of prime suspect
Yassin Salhi

BYLINE: By Henry Samuel Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1129 words


The man decapitated in an apparent Islamist attack on a chemical factory in
south-eastern France  was the assailant's boss, according to French reports, as
police questioned the prime suspect's wife and sister.

The victim, aged around 45, ran a delivery company authorised to enter the Air
Products liquid gas factory in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, outsid Lyon, where the
attack took place on Friday morning.

In what a police source called a "macabre mise en scene", the unnamed man's head
was found attached to a fence outside the factory, far from the body inside the
site.

Beside it was a black and flag with inscriptions in Arabic, thought to be those
of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant .

Yassin Salhi, 35, the man arrested inside the factory after smashing into liquid
gas canisters causing an explosion and fire, managed to enter the sensitive site
in a vehicle belonging to the company and which had security clearance to do so.
According to security camera footage seen by AFP, he had first planted the head
outisde before entering the plant.

"This was a terrorist attack given that a corpse was found decapitated and with
inscriptions," said president François Hollande, who returned early from a
European summit in Brussels to chair an emergency security meeting on Friday
afternoon.

After ramming some gas tanks at "high speed", Salhi then got out of his vehicle
and ran into a nearby building to try and open the valves of more liquid gas
bottles, in a bid to spark a far bigger explosion.

However, one of two firemen called to the scene tackled the suspect to the floor
as he shouted "Alahou Akbar" (God is Greatest).

Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, called the fireaman's act one of
extreme "bravery and sang-froid". Salhi suffered superficial facial injuries in
the struggle.

Salhi, 35, of North African origin from Saint Priest in eastern Lyon, has "no
criminal record", according to Mr Cazeneuve. He was listed in 2006 as a Salafist
"radical", but went off the radar in 2008. According to RTL, intelligence agents
voiced alarm about his "radicalism" as recently as last year.

Police said that a person "close to" the arrested suspect was detained suspected
of conducting "reconnaissance" at the site before the attack, but later
released.

The suspect's sister and wife were also taken in for questioning. Beforehand,
the wife expressed total ignorance and shock on Europe 1 radio, saying her
husband was at work, apparently doing deliveries.

"My heart is going to stop. I don't know what has happened. Have they arrested
him?" she asked.

"He went to work this morning at 7am. He does deliveries. He did not return
between noon and two, I expect him this afternoon.

"My sister said turn on the television. She was crying," said the young woman.

"I know my husband. We have a normal family life. He goes to work, he comes
back," she said.

"We are normal Muslims. We do Ramadan. We have three children and a normal
family life," said the wife of the suspect.

Shocked neighbours said the Salhi, his wife and three children aged six to nine
were "very discreet". They had arrived in the district around six months ago.

There remain question marks over whether the assailant had acted alone

Mr Hollande said: "The attack carried out by one person, perhaps accompanied by
someone else rammed at high speed this establishment, which is classified and
contains gas tanks. The intention leaves no room for doubt: it was to provoke an
explosion. This was a terrorist attack given that a corpse was found decapitated
and with inscriptions."

Saying he expressed "solidarity" with the victim, who according to a security
source was of "European" descent, saying that the attack was all the more
painful given the Islamist attacks of January in Paris in which 17 were killed,
which rocked the nation.

"Everyone remembers what happened in our country, and not only in our country,
and there is emotion," he said.

"But emotion cannot be the only response: we need action, prevention dissuasion
and the necessity to carry our values and never give in to fear."

He said "all necessary precautions" had been taken to ward against any other
attacks and that France's "vigipirate" terror plan had been put on maximum alert
in the Rhône area.

Manuel Valls, the prime minister, who is on a tour of South America, called on
sensitive sites in the Rhône-Alpes region to remain "highly vigilant" in case of
follow-up attacks.

"France has been struck again by terror," says Mr Valls, who is cutting short
the trip to return to Paris.

"The terrorists' threats and blind horrors spare no nation. My thoughts go to
the victims of Isère and the victims in Tunisia (where 27 people were gunned
down by Islamists on Friday)," he said from Colombia.

Patrick Menucci, Socialist MP of the Bouches-du-Rhône area, was far more blunt.
"France is at war," said the man who led a recent parliamentary inquiry into
jihadist networks.

"I know it's not good to say so, but this terror attack in
Saint-Quentin-Fallavier is the proof," he told Le Monde.

"We have on our territory individuals who don't obey the laws of the Republic
but fatwas of the Islamic State," said Mr Menucci, two months after the Senate
issued figures suggesting that half of all Europeans having left the continent
to wage jihad in the Middle East were French.

In all 1,683 French nationals are in some way implicated in the fighting - a 203
per cent increase in the number in a year.

Mr Menuccis said while he was "horrified" by the attack, he wasn't "surprised".

"In the parliaementary report...we warned of the risks of attack. France is the
most threatened country in Europe, notably because it defends secularism."

Mr Cazeneuve recently said that 278 French nationals had left Syria, of which
213 have already returned to France and others were returning each week and even
on a daily basis.

Last month the French PM warned that France could be at risk of these kind of
suicide attacks being replicated on French soil and pointed that at least six of
French nationals who had undertaken the kamikaze raids were recent converts to
Islam.

Mr Menucci said in this case it appeared the attacker was not a returning jihadi
but part of a "sleeper cell", like Mohammed Merah, the Toulouse killer.

He said the difficulty was knowing whether such people had any "real links" with
Isil or were "connected via internet and decide to follow on their own iniative
the fatwa, which I remind people calls on them to strike France and the French".

It is unclear why the Air Products factory, a US-based company, was targeted. It
is classified as a "low level" site under the EU Seveso classification. This
means that it is carries industrial risks but that the quantity of hazardous
material remains limited.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 5:54 PM GMT

David Cameron: Britain to stand with France and Tunisia against terrorism;
The Prime Minister said that the terror attacks could have happened "anywhere"
as he vowed to fight the "poisoning death cult" of Islamic extremism with
"everything we have".

BYLINE: By Steven Swinford Deputy Political Editor in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 353 words


Britain will stand alongside Tunisia and France and fight the "evil of
terrorism", David Cameron has said as he warned that "we all face this threat".

The Prime Minister said that the terror attacks could have happened "anywhere"
as he vowed to fight the "poisoning death cult" of Islamic extremism with
"everything we have".

· Latest developments after Tunisia terror attack

· Latest developments after France terror attack

Philip Hammond, the Foreign Secretary, chaired a meeting on Friday of the
government's emergency Cobra committee to work on co-operating with authorities
in France, Tunisia and elsewhere.

Speaking at a Brussels summit, Mr Cameron also urged Europe to do more to
"co-ordinate and build our capacity on counter-terrorism". It comes amid growing
concern in Britain over Europe's failure to share passenger data to try to help
stop terrorists.

· Tunisia: travel advice for tourists after terrorist shooting in Sousse

He said: "Our hearts all go out to the victims of these appalling terrorist
acts. I spoke to President Hollande and offered my sympathy and our solidarity
with the French people at this time. We will speak later with the Tunisian
government and again offer our sympathy and condolences and our solidarity in
fighting this evil of terrorism."

"This is a threat that faces all of us. These events have taken place today in
Tunisia and France but they could happen anywhere.

"We have got to do all we can to help. That means co-operating and building our
capacity on counter-terrorism, dealing with the threat at source whether that is
Isil in Syria and Iraq or other extremist groups and we have to deal with this
poisonous, radical narrative that is turning so many young minds. We have to
combat it with everything we have."

He said that Islam is a religion of "peace", and that the terrorists' atrocities
are "in the name of a twisted and perverted ideology that we have to confront."

He said: "We must stop the poisoning of these young minds in our country, in
other European countries and around the World."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 4:38 PM GMT

French attack: Country faces fresh horror over decapitation and factory
explosions;
The facts so far of Islamist terror attack on liquid gas chemical in
southeastern France as raids continue on potential accomplices of prime suspect
Yacine Sali

BYLINE: By Henry Samuel Paris

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1067 words


A man has been found decapitated, two injured and three arrested after an
apparent Islamist attack on a chemical factory in south-eastern France .

At around 9am on Friday morning, at least one assailant rammed a vehicle into
the walls of the Air Products factory in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, outside Lyon,
which produces industrial gas and is considered a "sensitive" site.

In what a police source called a "macabre mise en scene", the head of the
deceased man said not to be a factory employee was reportedly found attached to
a fence outside the factory, far from the body inside the site.

Beside it was a black and flag with inscriptions in Arabic, thought to be those
of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant . It is thought the head was placed
there before the factory attack.

"This was a terrorist attack given that a corpse was found decapitated and with
inscriptions," said François Hollande, who returned early from a European summit
in Brussels to chair an emergency security meeting on Friday afternoon.

According to Dauphiné Libéré, the deceased individual was a manager of a
transport company who was at the factory to make a delivery.

Once inside, the assailant at the wheel rammed gas tanks inside at "high speed",
causing an explosion and a fire. According to BFMTV, an assailant then tried to
open other gas valves, perhaps in a bid to spark a major explosion.

In what Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, called an act of extreme
"bravery and sang-froid", a lone fireman inside the site "neutralised" the
attacker, who was subsequently arrested with facial injuries, apparently from
the blast.

Mr Cazeneuve said the suspect is thought to be Yassin Salhi, 35, of North
African origin from Saint Priest in eastern Lyon . The individual has "no
criminal record" but was listed in 2006 as a Salafist "radical". However, he had
no longer been tracked since 2008.

Police said that a person "close to" the arrested suspect was in custody for
conducting "reconnaissance" at the site before the attack.

The suspect's wife was also taken in for questioning. Beforehand, she expressed
total ignorance and shock on Europe 1 radio, saying her husband was at work,
apparently doing deliveries.

"My heart is going to stop. I don't know what has happened. Have they arrested
him?" she asked.

"He went to work this morning at 7am. He does deliveries. He did not return
between noon and two, I expect him this afternoon.

"My sister said turn on the television. She was crying," said the young woman.

"I know my husband. We have a normal family life. He goes to work, he comes
back," she said.

"We are normal Muslims. We do Ramadan. We have three children and a normal
family life," said the wife of the suspect.

Mr Cazeneuve said that "other arrests" of potential accomplices were ongoing.
Elite RAID police raided the suspect's home.

Anti-terror troops of the GIGN unit were dispatched to the site with question
marks remaining over whether the assailant had acted alone

Mr Hollande said: "The attack carried out by one person, perhaps accompanied by
someone else rammed at high speed this establishment, which is classified and
contains gas tanks. The intention leaves no room for doubt: it was to provoke an
explosion. This was a terrorist attack given that a corpse was found decapitated
and with inscriptions."

Saying he expressed "solidarity" with the victim, who according to a security
source was of "European" descent, saying that the attack was all the more
painful given the Islamist attacks of January in Paris in which 17 were killed,
which rocked the nation.

"Everyone remembers what happened in our country, and not only in our country,
and there is emotion," he said.

"But emotion cannot be the only response: we need action, prevention dissuasion
and the necessity to carry our values and never give in to fear."

He said "all necessary precautions" had been taken to ward against any other
attacks.

Manuel Valls, the prime minister, who is on a tour of South America, called on
sensitive sites in the Rhône-Alpes region to remain "highly vigilant" in case of
follow-up attacks.

"France has been struck again by terror," says Mr Valls, who is cutting short
the trip to return to Paris.

"The terrorists' threats and blind horrors spare no nation. My thoughts go to
the victims of Isère and the victims in Tunisia (where 27 people were gunned
down by Islamists on Friday)," he said from Colombia.

Patrick Menucci, Socialist MP of the Bouches-du-Rhône area, was far more blunt.
"France is at war," said the man who led a recent parliamentary inquiry into
jihadist networks.

"I know it's not good to say so, but this terror attack in
Saint-Quentin-Fallavier is the proof," he told Le Monde.

"We have on our territory individuals who don't obey the laws of the Republic
but fatwas of the Islamic State," said Mr Menucci, two months after the Senate
issued figures suggesting that half of all Europeans having left the continent
to wage jihad in the Middle East were French.

In all 1,683 French nationals are in some way implicated in the fighting - a 203
per cent increase in the number in a year.

Mr Menuccis said while he was "horrified" by the attack, he wasn't "surprised".

"In the parliaementary report...we warned of the risks of attack. France is the
most threatened country in Europe, notably because it defends secularism."

Mr Cazeneuve recently said that 278 French nationals had left Syria, of which
213 have already returned to France and others were returning each week and even
on a daily basis.

Last month the French PM warned that France could be at risk of these kind of
suicide attacks being replicated on French soil and pointed that at least six of
French nationals who had undertaken the kamikaze raids were recent converts to
Islam.

Mr Menucci said in this case it appeared the attacker was not a returning jihadi
but part of a "sleeper cell", like Mohammed Merah, the Toulouse killer.

He said the difficulty was knowing whether such people had any "real links" with
Isil or were "connected via internet and decide to follow on their own iniative
the fatwa, which I remind people calls on them to strike France and the French".

It is unclear why the Air Products factory was targeted. It is classified as a
"low level" site under the EU Seveso classification. This means that it is
carries industrial risks but that the quantity of hazardous material remains
limited.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 4:38 PM GMT

Terror attacks: 'We have to deal with this poisonous, radical narrative', says
David Cameron;
The Prime Minister says he had spoken to Francois Hollande to offer his support
after the attack near Lyon and would also speak to the Tunisian government
following the attack there to offer "our solidarity in fighting this evil of
terrorism"

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video video source APTN

LENGTH: 178 words


"This is a threat that faces all of us," David Cameron said. "These events have
taken place today in Tunisia and in France but they can happen anywhere. We all
face this threat."

"The people who do these things, they sometimes claim they do it in the name of
Islam. They don't. Islam is a religion of peace," he said.

"They do it in the name of a twisted and perverted ideology that we have to
confront with everything that we have."

Gunmen attacked tourists at a beach resort in Tunisia, leaving at least 27
people dead.

The shooting took place in Sousse, a popular holiday destination on the Tunisian
coast.

Tunisia attracts large numbers of British tourists each year, with 424,707
British nationals visiting the country in 2014.

· Tunisia attack: deadly shooting in front of tourist beach hotel in Sousse -
latest

The atrocity, along with a terror attack in France in which a man was
decapitated, prompted Prime Minister David Cameron to announce that the
Government's emergency Cobra committee would meet to discuss the situation.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 3:31 PM GMT

Sousse terrorist attack: why were tourists targeted in Tunisia?;
The Telegraph's Richard Spencer explains that the Tunisia attack was aimed at
"instilling fear in the West"

BYLINE: By Alastair Good and Richard Spencer

LENGTH: 171 words


Gunmen have attacked tourists at a beach resort in Tunisia, leaving at least 27
people dead.

The shooting took place in Sousse, a popular holiday destination on the Tunisian
coast.

Tunisia attracts large numbers of British tourists each year, with 424,707
British nationals visiting the country in 2014.

· Tunisia attack: deadly shooting in front of tourist beach hotel in Sousse -
latest

The attack comes after gunmen went on a killing spree at the National Bardo
Museum in Tunis in March of this year.

The Telegraph's Middle East Correspondent Richard Spencer explains why Tunisia
has been the target of terrorist attacks.

He said: "Tunisia is a target because of all Middle Eastern countries it still
has the most successful tourist industry.

"It has also, rather paradoxically, one of the highest numer of jihadists who
have gone to Syria and other parts of the Middle East to fight for Isis and
other terrorist groups."

Watch the video to hear Richard Spencer's analysis in full.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 2:31 PM GMT

Why has France become a target for recent terror attacks?;
Following the decapitation of a man in Grenoble, The Telegraph's Henry Samuel
explains why France has become a target for terror attacks in recent months

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video contains video from APTN

LENGTH: 129 words


A man has been decapitated during a suspected Islamist terror attack in France .

A message in Arabic was reportedly found on the victim's head, which had been
pinned to a fence.

Two attackers arrived at a gas factory near Grenoble in a car, bearing banners
written in Arabic, and set off explosions.


     ·    Grenoble attack: Man found beheaded and Islamist flag raised above
          factory in France - latest


France 's anti-terror prosecutor said the attack was carried out by "a terrorist
group" and it is understood one man has been arrested.

The decapitation comes a few months after the Islamist attacks in and around
Paris in which 17 people were killed.

The Telegraph's France correspondent Henry Samuel explains why France has become
a target for terror attacks.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 2:16 PM GMT

France terror attack in Grenoble - watch live;
Watch live response to terrorist attack in France after one person was beheaded
and several injured at a factory near Grenoble

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video video source APTN

LENGTH: 81 words



     ·    Follow latest developments in our live blog


An attacker carrying an Islamist flag has killed one person and injured several
others today at a gas factory in eastern France.

The suspected attacker is understood to have rammed a vehicle into the gas
factory and set off an explosion.

French President Francois Hollande has denounced the attack as a terrorist act.

The attack comes six months after the Charlie Hebdo attack and the three-day
siege in Paris during which 17 people were killed.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 1:12 PM GMT

Grenoble terror attack: Emergency services gather at factory;
Footage shows emergency services at the scene of a suspected Islamist France
terror attack at a factory in Grenoble, France

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video and PA, video source APTN

LENGTH: 149 words


A man has been decapitated in a suspected Islamist terror attack in France .

A message in Arabic was reportedly found on the victim's head, which had been
pinned to a fence.

Two attackers arrived at a gas factory near Grenoble in a car, bearing banners
written in Arabic, and set off explosions.

France's anti-terror prosecutor said the attack was carried out by "a terrorist
group" and it is understood one man has been arrested.

Prime Minister David Cameron expressed his sympathies over the incident to
French President Francois Hollande.

The two leaders spoke in Brussels, where they are attending a European Council
summit.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: "He expressed his sympathies for what looks
like an appalling incident.

"Details are still emerging, so we wait to see those. But it clearly looks an
extremely concerning situation and our thoughts are with all those affected by
it."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 26, 2015 Friday 11:26 AM GMT

France terror attack in Grenoble - watch live;
Watch live police response after explosions were reportedly heard at a gas
factory near Grenoble, eastern France, where one person is believed to be dead
and several hurt

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video video source APTN

LENGTH: 98 words


An attacker carrying an Islamist flag has killed one person and injured several
others today at a gas factory in eastern France, according to a French official.

The suspected attacker is understood to have entered the factory and set off
several small explosive devices.


     ·    Grenoble attack: Man found beheaded and Islamist flag raised above
          French factory - latest


Bernard Cazeneuve, the interior minister, said he would go "immediately" to the
scene, his office said.

The attack comes six months after the Charlie Hebdo attack and the three-day
siege in Paris during which 17 people were killed.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        June 26, 2015 Friday 6:03 PM GMT

Man decapitated in French Islamist terror attack

BYLINE: Charles Bremner, Paris

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 849 words


France was on maximum terrorist alert tonight after a "polite and mild-mannered"
delivery driver deposited the head of his boss at a US gas storage plant near
Lyons and attempted to blow up the site in the name of the Islamic State group.

Two employees of the Air Products plant were injured when Yassin Salhi, 35, born
in France of Algerian and Moroccan parents, rammed gas canisters with his
Peugeot van, causing a small explosion. At the start of his assault, he
deposited the head of his 50-year-old employer on a perimeter fence. It was
covered with tissue paper inscribed with Arab script.

Salhi was reported to have carried flags of the Isis terrorist movement and
shouted "Allahou Akbar" when he was restrained by fire-fighters who were called
to the protected site in an industrial district just off the Lyon-Grenoble
motorway. Police took him into custody.

President Hollande cut short a Brussels summit to respond to France's first
overt Islamist attack since the January massacres that began at Charlie Hebdo
magazine. He called for unity in the face of the latest of a series of outbreaks
of home-grown terrorism perpetrated by Frenchmen of Arab or African origin in
the past year.

"We must not let ourselves be distracted by vain quarrels," Mr Hollande said
after chairing an emergency session of his security council. The armed forces
and police, already patrolling in unprecedented numbers, were ordered to
intensify their vigilance, especially in the Rhone region.

Police arrested several people, including the wife of Salhi, who moved from the
eastern town of Pontarilier to the Lyon suburb of Saint Priest a few months ago.
"The main question is to know if there were accomplices," said Mr Hollande. On a
visit to the site, Bernard Cazeneuve, the Interior Minister, said that he had
been on the anti-terrorist watch list from 2006-2008 after becoming radicalized
at a Pontarlier mosque but had not been deemed a serious threat.

Mr Hollande said that Salhi's goal appeared to have been to cause a major
explosion at the Air Porducts site, which is used to store gases used in
industry. He had left his van and was tinkering with cas containers when the
firemen arrived and stopped him.

There was no immediate explanation of the motives of Salhi, the father of three
children. Before being taken into custody, his distraught wife told French radio
that she had no inkling of his plans.

"He was off on errands delivering things. Yesterday he was at work as usual and
he left for work normally this morning," said Mrs Sahli, whose first name was
not released. "We are normal people. We are a family with three children. This
can't be true."

Asked if the couple was religious, she said: "We are Muslims..."

Nacer Benyahia, the head of the Pontarlier mosque, described Salhi as "a calm
kid, not at all agitated and always pleasant." His father had died when he was a
teenager. "He was along and probably the ideal target for the radicals who pick
their prey," he said.

Neighbours at Yassine Salhi's small block of flats in Saint Priest, a quiet
working class suburb, voiced disbelief last night. "He is as friendly and polite
as you could get," said Hicham, 26, who met the killer almost every day since
the Salhi family moved in about six months ago. "He is a family man, and I often
saw him with his wife and children. He wouldn't hurt a fly."

Feres, 38, another neighbour, also expressed incredulity. "He worked, he had
three children and a wife. Why would he do that? It doesn't make any sense. He
had everything to be happy."

Neighbours said Salhi had a beard and often wore brown sarwal, but was not known
as a fundamentalist. 'He certainly didn't seem to following a very strict
version of Islam." Sofiane, 34, added: 'If Yassine really did that, then he
can't claim to be acting in the name of Islam. A true Muslim would never do
that.'

The authorities have been warning of the near certainty of further Islamist
attacks since a Toulouse man of Algerian origin shot dead seven people including
soldiers and children at a Jewish school in March 2012. Police have thwarted
half a dozen imminent attacks in recent months, according to Manuel Valls, the
Prime Minister.

Isis and other Islamist groups are flooding France with online videos calling
for do-it-yourself strikes against French interests. They urge the use of any
means, including ramming with vehicles.

Seventeen were killed in the January Paris murders at Charlie Hebdo, a Paris
suburb and a Jewish supermarket. In the last incident, in April, police arrested
Sid Ahmed Ghlam, an Algerian-French student, as he was allegedly preparing to
attack a suburban church with a Kalashnikov rifle during its Sunday mass.

Ghlam is charged with killing a woman driver shortly before the aborted attack.
This week, he was reported to have told investigators that he had also been
planning to commit massacres at the Sacré-Coeur basilica in Paris and also a
high-speed train somewhere in France. Men claiming afiliation with Isis or Al
Qaeda also killed three people and injured a dozen in car and gun attacks around
France last year.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                thejournal.co.uk

                       June 26, 2015 Friday 12:21 PM GMT

Decapitated head found on gate after suspected Islamic terror attack in France;

Two flags, one white and one black and both with Arabic inscriptions, were found
at the scene

BYLINE: By Agency Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 182 words


A decapitated head has been found posted on the gate at the entrance to a gas
factory after it came under attack in south-eastern France, security officials
said.

The torso was found near the site of an explosion at the scene near Grenoble but
the victim was not decapitated by the blast, officials said.

Two flags, one white and one black and both with Arabic inscriptions, were found
at the scene.

Several people were wounded in the incident. French officials said it began
mid-morning in the Isere region when two men crashed a car into the entrance of
the factory and into gas canisters, touching off the explosion.

One attacker, who is said to be known to authorities, has been arrested.

Police are searching for anyone else involved in the attack, and interior
minister Bernard Cazeneuve has arrived at the scene.

France's anti-terror prosecutor said the attack was carried out by "a terrorist
group".

France went on high alert in January after extremist brothers Said and Cherif
Kouachi killed 12 people - including two police officers - in attacks on
satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTJN


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              June 26, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Jihadi John-obsessed machete attack 'was fanatic's Tesco act of terror'

BYLINE: Elwyn Roberts

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1020 words


THE Sikh family of a dentist injured in a racially-motivated machete attack in a
Tesco store last night described the attempted killing as an "act of terror".

Dr Sarandev Bhambra suffered horrific injuries in the attack by far-right
extremist Zack Davies.

Davies was yesterday found guilty of attempted murder following a trial at Mold
Crown Court.

Following the verdict, Dr Bhambra's family said that if their races had been
reversed the family had no doubt it would have been reported as "terrorism".

His brother, Dr Tarlochan Singh Bhambra, said: "Sarandev was singled out because
of the colour of his skin. We are in no doubt that had the racial disposition of
this case been reversed this would be reported as an act of terror with a wider
media coverage. We as a family have listened intently to the evidence... and are
in no doubt given the racial and political motivation that this should be
rightly defined as an act of terrorism.

"By his own admission, Zach Davies had extreme neo-Nazi views and is a member of
a white supremacist organisation."

During the trial, the jury heard how Davies was said to have been "inspired" by
IS killer Jihadi John.

Davies, 26, shouted "White Power" and "I did it for Lee Rigby" as he targeted
his 24-year-old victim with a machete and a claw hammer at a Tesco supermarket
in Mold, on January 14.

Davies, from Mold, was said to have caused Dr Bhambra "very severe" injuries to
the left hand, his back and head. The injuries were described as lifechanging.

The attack happened while the dentist was shopping at the store during his lunch
break.

Witnesses reported seeing a white man chasing an Asian man through the store
with a knife and hammer. Davies was only stopped when a member of the public,
former serviceman Peter Fuller, stepped in.

Davies was said to have been obsessed with Nazi ideology, with various
associated literature found in a later police search of his home.

Posters relating to the 2013 murder of Fusilier Rigby by two Islamic extremists
were also discovered.

Giving evidence, Davies said he was "fascinated" by "Jihadi John", whom he saw
as an "inspiration" and even had a mask of him. Davies had admitted wounding
with intent but denied attempted murder.

The jury took three hours and 40 minutes to decide he was guilty of attempted
murder to cheers and applause from the pubic gallery.

Davies showed no emotion as the verdict was read out.

Judge Rhys Rowlands sent Davies to a high security hospital for psychiatric
reports to be prepared before he sentences him on September 11.

"I hold the view he is an incredibly dangerous young man. If it is not going to
be a hospital order it will be the longest possible sentence," said the Judge.

"Dr Bhambra sustained the most dreadful life-changing injuries during a
sustained racist attack on an innocent man, a member of a caring profession here
in Mold carrying out work for the benefit of the community, who happened to be
in the wrong place at the wrong time."

It was, said Judge Rowlands, a "shocking case" of a man attacked because of his
appearance.

He said the jury would have been appalled and saddened.

He praised Dr Bhambra and his family for the dignity and fortitude they had
shown throughout the trial and he hoped for the continued improvement in Dr
Bhambra's condition.

He said many in the store and the emergency services had acted with courage that
day, but he singled out the actions of Mr Fuller for his "quite astounding
courage" and said he was considering how it should be best recognised.

"If it had not been for Peter Fuller there is every chance that Dr Bhambra would
not be with us today, he would have been killed by this man. Mr Fuller's courage
is truly exceptional. It was a desperately sad and sorry case and the way Dr
Bhambra coped and Mr Fuller behaved are just two rays of hope and light in an
otherwise dreadful case," said Judge Rowlands.

Following the hearing, Dr Bhambra's brother said there had been a display of
"ignorance" throughout the trial.

"Ethnic minorities have and continue to contribute positively to the
multicultural Britain of 2015. Sikhs have sacrificed their lives in both world
wars to facili-tate the freedom that Britain enjoys today."

He said his brother, who was born in Leeds, was a young man his family was
immensely proud of and had just started out on his chosen career.

"This cowardly assault has left him with life-changing injuries. Sarandev is
currently undergoing an extensive programme of rehabilitation. "We are indebted
and will be forever grateful to Mr Peter Fuller who risked his own safety to
save Sarandev from this wanton act of terror. We are in no doubt Mr Fuller's
actions, couple with Sarandev's strength and agility, saved his life.

"Sarandev has also asked us to convey our gratitude to the attending emergency
services, North Wales Police, PC Ross Tutton and Iolo Edwards and Eleri Thomas.
We would also like to thank the staff at Mold Tesco that helped Sarandev."

They were also grateful for messages of support from people in Mold.

DCI Alun Oldfield said North Wales Police welcomed the verdict and had no doubt
there would be a lengthy sentence.

The racially-motivated attack was an "embarrassment and shock" for the people of
Mold, he said, but was not typical.

He hoped Dr Bhambra would one day return to work in Mold and he would be
supported in every way possible.

"Zack Davies is clearly a dangerous individual and this, I am sure, will be
clearly reflected in the sentence," he said.

Gareth Preston, Senior Crown Prosecutor for the Crown Prosecution Service Wales,
said: "Zackery Davies is a dangerous young man whose distorted and racist views
led him to commit a terrifying act of violence.

"This was an attack against a complete stranger, singled out for no other reason
than his ethnicity.

"Such was the level of violence involved that, were it not for the extremely
courageous actions of ex-serviceman Peter Fuller, this offence could have become
an act of murder.

"As it is, Davies' actions have left Dr Bhambra with lifechanging injuries.

"We hope that today's conviction will be of some comfort to him as he seeks to
move forward with his life."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Tesco store in Mold where the attack happenedDr Tarlochan Singh
Bhambra, brother of victim Dr Sarandev Bhambra, outside court. Right, Zack
Davies poses in front of a swastika on a YouTube video. Inset, Davies and the
machete he used in the attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              June 26, 2015 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'If races were reversed, this would be an act of terror';
TESCO MACHETE ATTACK VICTIM'S FAMILY SPEAK OUT AS FANATIC CONVICTED OF ATTEMPTED
MURDER...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2 words


REPORT: PAGES 4&5

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr Tarlochan Singh Bhambra, brother of victim Dr Sarandev Bhambra, and
family members outside Mold Crown Court <B yesterday after fanatic Zack Davies,
right, was found guilty of attempted murder after a 'Lee Rigby revenge' attack
in Tesco

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Worksop Guardian

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Tunisia terror attack: Sheffield woman looked terrorist in the face'

BYLINE: George Torr

LENGTH: 697  words


A Sheffield woman has said that she looked a terrorist in the face' after a
hotel she is staying in was attacked by gunmen which has left 37 people dead.

Julie Spafford, from Sheffield, posted on social media about her ordeal which
left blood and bullet holes' scattered through the hotel in the popular tourist
destination of Sousse in Tunisia.

Julie described the horrific terror attack at the hotel.

She said: "We got to our room and armed soldiers came in the room and searched
everywhere.

"It's like watching a film I want to wake up from dreaming.

"The silence is scary, I've never been so frightened I want to come home.

"We are the lucky ones, please God get us home safe."

British authorities and Thompson Holidays are trying now to sort the family a
flight back home.

Julie added: "Unbelievable atmosphere of grief and numbness it just does not
seem real.

"Bullet holes and blood so tragic.

"I cannot believe I looked a terrorist in the face.

"Thank god we got to safety."

The slaughter happened when gunmen exchanged fire with security services on the
busy beach in the town of Sousse, a popular destination for holidaymakers from
the UK and Ireland.

At least five Britons have been confirmed dead in the terrorist attack on a
Tunisian holiday resort, with the death toll expected to rise.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said because the resort is popular with
holidaymakers from the UK "we have to assume that a high proportion of those
killed and injured will have been British".

The country's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons,
Tunisians, Germans and Belgians.

An Irish woman is understood to be among the 28 victims massacred in the gun
attack, an Irish government source said.

Interior Ministry spokesman Mohammed Ali Aroui said: "A terrorist infiltrated
the buildings from the back before opening fire on the residents of the hotel,
including foreigners and Tunisians."

Those killed are more likely to be foreign as the local Muslim population is
less likely to go to the beach during the holy month of Ramadan.

Pictures posted on social media appeared to show the body of a man face down in
the sand with empty sun loungers behind him.

Elizabeth O'Brien, an Irish woman on holiday with her two sons in the resort,
described how she grabbed her children and ran for their lives when they heard
gunfire erupting from one of the hotels.

"We were on the beach, my sons were in the sea and I just got out of the sea.

"It was about 12 o'clock and I just looked up about 500 metres from me and I saw
a (hot air) balloon collapse down, then rapid firing, then I saw two of the
people who were going to go up in the balloon start to run towards me - because
I thought it was fireworks,'' the Dubliner told RTE Radio.

"So, I thought Oh my God, it sounds like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to
my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the
waiters and the security on the beach started saying run, run run!' and we just
ran to our room, which is like a little bungalow.

Tourist Gary Pine told Sky News: "We saw what we thought was firecrackers going
off so we thought someone was celebrating.

"But you could see then quite quickly the panic that was starting to ensue from
the next resort along from us, which is about 100 yards away, and so then people
started exiting the beach pretty quickly, but only when you can start hearing
bullets around your ears did you start to realise it was something more serious
than firecrackers."

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists including a Briton.

A suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in Sousse in
October 2013, while 21 people lost their lives in an attack in the country
earlier this year.

The country has undergone unprecedented social and political change since the
2011 uprisings and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office says there is a 'high''
threat from terrorism.

Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis. Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn
by the hotels, sandy beaches and culture.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NWGU


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

Man beheaded in French terror attack

LENGTH: 53  words


A man has been decapitated during a suspected terror attack on a factory in
France, according to reports.

French media said an Islamist flag was found at the scene near Grenoble in the
Alps.

There were also reports of explosions and other people being injured.

The attacker was said to have been arrested.

More follows...

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              June 26, 2015 Friday

UPDATED: Five Brits dead in Tunisia terror attack which forced Yorkshire
tourists to flee for their lives

LENGTH: 911  words


At least five Britons have been confirmed dead in a terrorist attack on a
Tunisian holiday resort after a day of bloody attacks by Islamic fundamentalists
across Europe and the Middle East.

The attack came on the same day a man was found decapitated after an attack by
suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait
was bombed killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked they come after the
so-called Islamic State called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of
calamities for the nonbelievers".

Tunisia's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons, as well
as Tunisians, Germans and Belgians. Thirty six others have been wounded.

Bodies covered in blankets were strewn across the beach and medical staff used
sun loungers as stretchers to carry away the dead and injured.

Despite initially believing there was more than one gunman, the Tunisian
authorities later said the killer was thought to be a young student who had not
previously been known to their security services.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach at the Riu Bellevue Park.

His killing spree ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his
body.

In Grenoble, French authorities have revealed that one of the suspected Islamic
terrorists accused of carrying out the attack was known to police.

The victim's severed head was found stalked on a gate at the entrance of a gas
factory in the town in south west France, with a message written on it,
reportedly in Arabic.

The atrocities prompted Prime Minister David Cameron to return to the UK from
the European Council summit in Brussels while the the Government's emergency
Cobra committee was convened to discuss the situation.

Mr Cameron said he had spoken to French president Francois Hollande to offer his
support following the French attack in the town of Grenoble and said he would
also speak to the Tunisian government.

He said: "This is a threat that faces all of us. These events have taken place
today in Tunisia and in France but they can happen anywhere. We all face this
threat.

"Perhaps more important than anything is poisonous radical narrative that is
turning so many young minds and we have to combat it with everything we have."

The Prime Minister said that the West must stop "the poisoning of ... young
minds" by Islamic State (IS) and other extremists.

The Foreign Office said it was "urgently" working with travel firms in Tunisia
and had despatched a British Embassy team to the site of the atrocity.

A spokesman said: "We are urgently working with tour operators and local
authorities in Tunisia to gather and confirm information on those affected by
this attack.

"A team from the British Embassy in Tunis is on its way to the area to support
any British nationals needing assistance."

Ellie Makin, from Ripon, who was on holiday with her friend Debbie Horsfall from
Huddersfield, when she saw a gunman pull a weapon from an umbrella right next to
them on the beach while they were sunbathing.

She told ITV News: "He was to the right of me because we were on the last sun
bed on the beach. All of a sudden I got up anyway and just happened to look
right and all I saw was a gun and an umbrella being dropped.

"Then he started firing to the right hand side of us.

"If he had fired to the left I don't know what would have happened, but we were
very lucky."

Thomas Cook, which has holidaymakers in the resort, said: "Thomas Cook has been
advised of an incident that occurred earlier today in Sousse, Tunisia.

"At this time, details are not clear as to which property(ies) have been
affected, with conflicting news reports.

"We are currently gathering information and will provide an update as soon as
possible. Our teams on the ground are offering every support to our customers
and their families in the area.

"We will continue to monitor the situation, working closely with the FCO and
local authorities.

British holidaymaker Gary Pine is staying in the El Mouradi Palm Marina hotel
close to where the incident happened.

Situated at the back of the hotel, near the pool area, he told Sky News by phone
that he could no longer hear any noise and said the hotel was "very, very quiet"
at that stage, but said it would have been very busy.

"The beach tends to be full up very quickly so it's the usual story of getting
down to lay your towel at half past six to get a decent beach position, so all
of the beach positions were taken," he said.

"Anyone with concerns about family or friends can call the Department on 01 408
2000."

FACTFILE:

o Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis.

o Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn by the hotels,
sandy beaches and culture.

oHotel complexes with 40,000 beds span from the old city to the Port El Kantaoui
and the city is home to a Unesco-protected mosque, as well as a historic medina.

oBoujaafar Beach stretches from the Gulf of Hammamet several miles north to Port
El Kantaoui - a purpose-built resort with dozens of hotels including the El
Mouradi Palm Marina, El Mouradi Palace and Riu Imperial Marhaba.

Read more...

{http://www.yorkshirepost.co.uk/news/main-topics/general-news/british-woman-kill
ed-in-tunisia-shootings-1-7164296 | March 2015: Yorkshire woman dies in Tunisia
terror attack | March 2015: Yorkshire woman dies in Tunisia terror attack}

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Alliance News

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 07:59 AM GMT

At Least 39 Killed In Terrorist Attack On Tunisian Beach Resort

LENGTH: 729 words


TUNIS (Alliance News) - Tunisia's deadliest terrorist attack in more than a
decade killed at least 39 people Friday as a gunman opened fire on a beach
crowded with foreign tourists in the resort city of Sousse.

The victims were mostly from Germany and Britain, with Belgian, Russian and
Ukrainian citizens also killed, the Health Ministry said. More than 30 people
were wounded.

British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said that at least five British
citizens were among the victims, while Irish Foreign Minister Charles Flanagan
said at least one Irish tourist had died.

The gunman targeted the Imperial Marhaba Hotel, a destination popular among
Europeans.

Security forces intervened and shot the attacker dead, Interior Ministry
spokesman Mohammed al-Aroui said. A search of the area was continuing late into
the night, he added, but no other suspects had been officially detained.

Supporters of the Islamic State jihadist group on Twitter posted a claim of
responsibility for the attack, which dpa was not able to verify.

English holidaymaker Gary Pine said he and fellow tourists on the beach at the
time of the attack had initially mistaken the sound of gunshots for
firecrackers.

"Only when I went back to get my bag did I realize that it was gunshots," he
said by telephone from Sousse. "You could hear and sense the gunshots in the
air, so everyone made a very fast exit."

The attacker sneaked onto the hotel beach hiding a gun inside an umbrella,
according to a local witness, who spoke to the online edition of Tunisian
newspaper al-Chourouk.

The terrorist started shooting at the tourists on the beach, then moved to the
hotel's swimming pool, where he killed four people, the unidentified witness
said.

"Afterwards, he went into the lobby of the hotel, continuing to shoot randomly
before fleeing to a nearby hotel," the witness was quoted as saying. "He was
chased and killed by security guards."

Tunisia's Mosaique FM reported that the perpetrator of the attack was a 23-year
old from Siliana province in the north of the country, who had taken religious
studies courses in a mosque "outside the control of the government."

President Beji Caid Essibsi, in an initial reaction, said he had asked the
government to review the licenses of political parties that "raise black flags"
associated with jihadism.

Several hundred supporters of the mainstream Islamist Ennahda movement, which
headed the country's government between 2011 and 2013, took to the streets in
the capital Tunis to protest against the attacks, chanting "terrorism is against
Islam" and "terrorism is against Tunisia."

Sousse, located about 120 kilometres south-east of Tunis, is popular with
Tunisians and foreigners. It attracts 1.2 million visitors annually, according
to official figures.

The tourism industry is one of Tunisia's biggest employers.

Local tourism official Salwa al-Qadari said many tourists in the town had
decided to leave immediately.

"Tourists are still in panic," al-Qadari said. "The attack is a disaster, coming
at the start of the tourism season in Tunisia."

Scandinavian tour operators said several hundred Swedes, Norwegians and Danes
were holidaying in the area at the time.

Tour operator Detur Sweden, part of Turkish-based group Detur International,
said it had cancelled two planned flights Friday evening from Sweden to Tunisia
because of the attacks.

Detur Norway spokesman Levet Cetin told online news site Nettavisen that it was
also halting further flights to Tunisia. Tourists with bookings for Tunisia
would be offered to rebook for Turkey or Crete.

Friday's incident, which coincided with other terrorist attacks in France and
Kuwait, is only the latest to affect Tunisia, where radical Islamist groups have
been gaining influence since the overthrow of dictator Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
in January 2011.

In March, gunmen killed 21 tourists and a policeman in an attack at the Bardo
National Museum in Tunis. The Islamic State extremist group claimed
responsibility for that attack.

On October 30, 2013, a suicide bomber blew himself up outside the luxury Riadh
Palm hotel in Sousse after repeatedly trying to enter it. The bomber was the
only casualty.

In 2002, an explosives-laden truck was detonated outside a synagogue on the
island of Djerba, killing 14 German tourists, three Tunisians and two French
nationals. Al-Qaeda claimed responsibility for that attack.

Copyright dpa

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                      Copyright 2015 Alliance News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Iran condemns terrorist attack in France

LENGTH: 192 words


Text of report by Iranian official government news agency IRNA website

Tehran, 26 June: Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Marziyeh Afkham strongly condemned
the Friday's terrorist attack in Eastern France which resulted in the death of 1
person and injury of many more.

"These terrorist acts have non conformity with the teachings of the religion of
Islam," Afkham said while condemning the terrorist attack the French city of
Lyon.

An attacker carrying an ISIL flag killed one person and injured several others
at a gas factory in eastern France, according to a source.

The attacker entered the factory in the Isère region near Grenoble in southeast
France, and set off several small explosive devices, the source said on Friday.

A decapitated body was found nearby, another source added.

The severed head was reportedly impaled on the gates of the factory, located in
the small town of Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, which lies around 40 kilometers (25
miles) from Lyon.

The attack reportedly occurred around 10:00 a.m. local time (0800 GMT). One
suspected attacker has been arrested.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 2043gmt 26 Jun
15

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Arab League chief condemns Tunisia "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 103 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 26 June: Arab League Secretary-General Nabil al-Arabi on Friday [26 June]
strongly condemned the terrorist attack that targeted the Tunisian resort city
of Sousse.

Al-Arabi phoned the Tunisian permanent delegate to the Arab League, expressing
condolences to the Tunisian people and leadership.

He stressed the pan-Arab organization's support for Tunisia in its fight against
terrorism.

A terrorist attack targeted two hotels in Tunisia earlier in the day, leaving 27
people dead and six others wounded.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1842gmt 26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Three Iranians killed, five injured in Kuwait terror attack - agency

LENGTH: 255 words


Excerpt of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Kuwait City, 27 June: Kuwaiti health officials issued a statement on Saturday to
name martyrs and those injured in the terrorist attack at a mosque in Kuwait
City.

Three Iranian attain martyrdom [as received] in the terrorist attack on Kuwait
City

The report indicates that three Iranian attained martyrdom and five others
sustained injuries in the terrorist attacks which claimed the lives of 24
worshipers.

Terrorists killed 24 and wounded at least 50 fasting worshippers during Friday
prayers congregation at a Shia mosque in Kuwait City.

The three Iranian martyrs are Mohammad Saeed Matroudi, Seyyed Mohammad-Reza
Movahedi and Abdolhamid Mahoumd.

The wounded Iranian worshipers were identified as Fazlollah Vafadar, Farajollah
Qaedi Heidari, Jasem Beit Sayah, Rahim Azim Beit Sayah and Mahmoudi.

Officials at the Iranian embassy in Kuwait City are now making arrangement for
transfer of three martyrs to Iran and also follow up treatment of five other
injured Iranians at Kuwaiti hospitals.

The Kuwait government held an extraordinary session on Saturday [27 June] and
declared Saturday as national mourning day.

Iran's Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif in a telephone conversation with
his Kuwait counterpart condemned the terrorist attack and expressed sympathy
with the Kuwaiti government and nation over the incident [on 26 June].

[Passage omitted: background]

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1058 gmt 27 Jun
15

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Syria strongly condemns Tunisia "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 270 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

Syria strongly condemned the terrorist attack which targeted the brotherly
country of Tunisia on Friday, calling on international community to take a
serious stance and a responsible act for eradicating the plague of terrorism.

Foreign and Expatriates Ministry said in a statement issued on Saturday that
Syria strongly condemns this terrorist attack and expresses deep sympathy with
the brotherly people of Tunisia and the families of the victims.

It added that the terrorist acts which hit Tunisia, Kuwait and France yesterday
confirm all over again that no one is isolated from the danger of terrorism,
which has no limits or religion, adding that the international community should
take a serious stance and a responsible act to eradicate the plague of terrorism
and force the countries that are providing support to terrorism, particularly
Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Turkey to comply with resolutions of the international
legitimacy relevant to counterterrorism and abandon their destructive policies
which pose a threat to the international peace, stability and security.

The statement concluded by saying that Syria, which is bravely resisting the
Takfiri terrorism, affirms its readiness to cooperate with all sincere efforts
for saving the world from this imminent danger.

The terrorist attack which hit a hotel in Sousse suburbs in Tunisia claimed the
lives of scores of persons.

The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria terrorist organization claimed
responsibility for the attack.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus, in English 0920 gmt 27 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Senior Iranian MP condemns terror attacks in Tunisia, France

LENGTH: 267 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 27 June: Head of Majlis National Security and Foreign Policy Commission,
in a letter to his Tunisian counterpart, has condemned the terrorist attack on a
hotel in the city of Sousse.

Ala'eddin Borujerdi wrote that the bitter incident indicates the necessity of
taking decisive decision by all Islamic states to confront extremist Takfiri
groups.

["Takfiri" is a pejorative term used to describe extremist Islamists who brand
other Muslims non-believers.]

Borujerdi in his letter addressed to Ms Boshra Belhaj Hamideh said that taking a
decisive and collective decision by all Islamic states to uproot terrorism and
confront radical Takfiri groups is necessary.

He expressed condolence with the Tunisian government, parliament and nation and
expressed sympathy with the families of victims over the outrageous act of
terror.

The senior MP called for effective and serious move by Muslim countries to
confront such acts, which aim to tarnish the real face of Islam and destruct
regional stability and unity among Muslims.

According to the reports, terrorist group of ISIL [referring to Islamic State,
also known as IS/ISIS/ISIL] took responsibility of the Friday [26 June] attack
on a hotel in the city of Sousse, Tunisia, which left 39 people dead.

In a separate message to his counterpart at the French National Assembly and
Senate, Borujerdi condemned terrorist incident in city of Lion, which left one
dead and seven wounded on Friday.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1210 gmt 27 Jun
15

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Egypt's Sisi phones Hollande over terror attack

LENGTH: 103 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 27 June: President Abd-al-Fattah al-Sisi phoned on Saturday [27 June] his
French counterpart Francios Hollande to condole with him over the victims of a
terrorist attack that targeted a factory in southern France on Friday.

Al-Sisi condemned the attack and voiced support for Paris in its efforts to
combat terrorism, said presidential spokesman Ala Yusuf.

The president asserted deeply-rooted ties between Cairo and Paris, added the
spokesman.

The French president thanked Sisi for this Egyptian stance.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1506gmt 27 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Tajik president offers condolences over Kuwait terror attack

LENGTH: 153 words


Text of report by Tajik president's website on 27 June

Tajik President Emomali Rahmon has sent a telegram of condolence to the emir of
Kuwait, Shaykh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir al-Sabah, which says:

"Your Excellency,

"It is with deep grief that we received the news about a blast in one of the
mosques in the country's capital, which left dozens of innocent citizens dead
and wounded. This inhuman and unjustifiable terror attack is another hideous
example of actions of professional criminals, and fighting them mercilessly is
the duty of each sensible person. Tajikistan is ready to establish expanded
cooperation in this field.

I express my sincere condolences to you, Your Excellency, and ask you to convey
our deep condolences to family members of the victims. Let almighty grant them
patience and forbearance.

To God we belong and to Him we return".

Source: Tajik president's website, Dushanbe, in Russian 0500 gmt 27 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:27 AM GMT

Tunisia attack: Co-ordinated terrorist massacres echo Belfast's Bloody Friday

BYLINE: Editor's Viewpoint

SECTION: EDITOR'S VIEWPOINT

LENGTH: 412 words


The apparently co-ordinated terrorist attacks on three continents yesterday,
leaving scores of people dead and hundreds injured, are like a horrible echo of
our own Bloody Friday on July 21, 1972.

On that day 26 IRA bombs exploded in Belfast, killing nine people and injuring
130 more.

It was probably the most concerted effort by the IRA to impose its will on
Northern Ireland and gain global publicity for its warped campaign.

Yesterday's outrages in Tunisia, France and Kuwait bear all the same traditional
hallmarks of a terror campaign.

The reach of Islamic State and its satellite groups is much wider than that of
the IRA but it follows a similar blueprint.

In Tunisia the target - as in January - were foreign tourists, an important
source of income for the country. A secondary aim was to further destabilise a
country which has found that the promise of the Arab Spring overthrow of its
dictatorship was merely a step towards chaos.

In Kuwait, a Shia mosque was targeted by a suicide bomber in an apparent attempt
to stir up sectarian tensions as IS regards Shias as heretics.

The aim of the French attack is less clear. It looks like the work of an Islamic
extremist in a country which has Europe's largest Muslim population, but it
might have resulted from a personal grudge rather than a political motive.

The net result of the attacks is to make the world seem a more dangerous place
and to constrict the number of destinations where people from the Western world
can feel comfortable travelling to.

It is terror in its purest form, spreading fear and a sense of helplessness. We
know terrorism is difficult to defeat in the short term. Islamic extremists seem
immune to political pressure and must be confronted by a robust, concerted and
agreed military response from as wide a coalition of countries as possible. Only
when terrorists are convinced they cannot win, is their defeat feasible.

Read more:

Tunisia attack: Five Britons dead after gunman massacres dozens of tourists

Many Britons killed in Tunisia - PM

Irish mother among dead in Tunisia

Man took gunshots to save fiancee

Advice for travellers to region

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:32 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack - Sue Davey named as one of deceased;
Son breaks news of mum's death on social media

BYLINE: By Steve Wollaston

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 264 words


Missing Midlands woman Sue Davey has been named as the latest victim of the
Tunisia gun massacre.

Ms Davey had been reported missing since atrocity took place on Friday
lunchtime.

Her son, Conor Fulford, took to Twitter to reveal her tragic death.

Conor Fulford

He continued;

"My mom was a strong women who didn't take no crap from nobody so when you lie
down tonight wish my mom goodnight as I know i sure will xxxxx"

Earlier today her father Retired West Bromwich businessman Alan Lloyd had spoken
to the Birmingham Mail and told us in desperation that he had no idea if she was
alive or dead.

Desperate Alan said the only information he had received about his daughter is
that she had been shot in the ankle.

A Tipton family are feared to be among those killed.

He said that the last they had seen of her was pictures on TV when the family
spotted her wearing a black bikini being carried off a beach.

Tunisia attack

Former taxi firm and building boss Alan, 72, said he had attempted to call the
Riu Imperial - his daughter's hotel in Sousse - but the venue's phone system had
been switched off.

Her phone had been handed into the Tunisian authorities from the beach - but no
one had been able to speak to her since news of the massacre broke .

Alan, a former soldier, had even tried to use his contacts in the military to
discover details of his daughter's situation - but to no avail.

Former Viila star Marc Albrighton is a close family friend and current player
Ashley Westwood had joined the twitter plea for information.

The midfielder posted: "Please help find Sue Davey missing in Tunisia. "

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 4:54 PM GMT

Live: Tunisian terror attacks Midland families devastated;
Updates on the terror attacks in Tunisian tourist resort, Sousse, as Tipton
family reported to be among dead

BYLINE: By Fionnuala Bourke

LENGTH: 9 words


Live: Tunisian terror attacks Midland families devastated

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 3:54 PM GMT

Dad of missing Tunisian terror attack mum Sue Davey tells of fears for his
daughter;
Alan Lloyd is desperate for news of his daughter, from Tamworth, after spotting
her on TV being carried off the beach

BYLINE: By Brett Gibbons

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 335 words


The father a mum missing amid the Tunisian terror attacks has told of his trauma
saying: "I don't know if she is dead or alive."

Retired West Bromwich businessman Alan Lloyd has spoken of his fears for Sue
Davey after her son, Conor Fulford, posted a Tweet to try to find information
about his mum.

Desperate Alan said the only information he has received about his daughter is
that she has been shot in the ankle.

A Tipton family are feared to be among those killed.

"We don't know a thing," Alan told the Birmingham Mail.

"We have been trying to get information from all of the different numbers that
have been issued by the Foreign office and Thomson, the tour company, but it's
like banging your head against a brick wall.

"I spoke to someone from the Foreign office and asked if he would call me back
when he had information but he told me he wasn't allowed to do that.

"It is unbelieveable. We are at our wit's end. We don't know what to do.

"The last we saw of Sue was from the pictures on TV when we spotted her wearing
a black bikini being carried off a beach."

Tunisia attack

Former taxi firm and building boss Alan, 72, said he had attempted to call the
Riu Imperial - his daughter's hotel in Sousse - but the venue's phone system had
been switched off.

Her phone has been handed into the Tunisian authorities from the beach - but no
one has been able to speak to her since news of the massacre broke.

Alan, a former soldier, has even tried to use his contacts in the military to
discover details of his daughter's situation - but to no avail.

Last night Connor, from Tamworth, posted on twitter: "#FindSueDavey #Tunisia
haven't spoke to my mom. Phone has been handed in please RT !!

"she was staying at the imperial and she was on the beach at the time of the
attack and her phone etc has been handed in"

Former Viila star Marc Albrighton is a close family friend and current player
Ashley Westwood has joined the twitter plea for information.

The midfielder posted: "Please help find Sue Davey missing in Tunisia. "

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 2:59 PM GMT

Family from Tipton 'killed in Tunisia terror attacks';
Reports say Sandwell Council worker and his family from Tipton have been killed

BYLINE: By Jane Tyler

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 546 words


A family from Tipton are believed to have been killed in the Tunisia gun
attacks.

Reports are emerging that the man, who works for Sandwell Council, was among
those gunned down on the beach, along with two of his relatives.

There are also reports that four members of the same family from Bilston
Wednesbury are believed to have been caught up in the atrocity.

Sandwell Council has refused to comment on these reports.

The death toll in the terrorist attack at the beach resort of Sousse currently
stands at 38, with eight of the dead confirmed to be British.

But the Tunisian prime minister has warned that the "majority" of those killed
were British.

It is understood that Conor Fulford, from Tamworth, is still trying to reach his
mum Sue Davy who was staying at the hotel.

British Prime Minister David Cameron, at a news conference today (Saturday, June
27), echoed that, saying that the country needed to prepare itself for further
news that "many of those killed would be British".

The slaughter happened when a gunman, disguised as a tourist, opened fire on the
busy beach in the resort, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK
and Ireland.

Terror group Islamic State have claimed responsibility for the attack.

The gunman, identified as Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani, 23, was reportedly laughing as
he carried out the massacre and deliberately selected western tourists.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: "He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy. He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to
them, 'You go away'. He was choosing tourists, British, French."

Details of the British dead are starting to emerge.

One of them is Irish mother-of-two who was named locally as Lorna Carty from
Robinstown, County Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

Another victim was said to be Carly Lovett, a 24-year-old photographer and
blogger from Lincolnshire.

She is understood to have got engaged last December and was on the third day of
her holiday with her fiance, Liam Moore, and family and friends, who all
survived.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond gave details of the government response today.

He said: "The situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can't be
sure exactly how many, but because of the nature of the composition of the
tourist population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high
proportion of those killed and injured will have been British."

It comes three months after mother-of-two Sally Adey, from Caynton, near
Shifnal, died in a terrorist attack in Tunis.

Mrs Adey, a retired solicitor, died in the shooting at the Bardo National Museum
in Tunisia on March 18.

She had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her 52-year-old husband Robert, who
survived the attack.

More than 20 people were killed in the attack, with 17 of those being cruise
ship passengers.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bucks Free Press

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

UPDATE: man who was shot in Tunisia terror attack 'could be home within a week'

BYLINE: Andrew Colley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 498 words


A 43-year-old man who was shot in the Tunisia terrorism attack yesterday has
regained consciousness, and his family say he could be home within a week.

John Metcalf, from Hazlemere, has undergone emergency surgery and remains in
intensive care after the gunman who slaughtered 38 holidaymakers shot him in the
stomach as he tried to escape alongside his girlfriend.

His mother Pat Metcalf earlier told the Bucks Free Press how the family were
desperately trying to find out more information about his condition, while his
partner Jo Coles stayed by his beside.

However, it is now believed that he is awake and talking less than 48 hours
after he went through the terrifying ordeal.

His older brother, Simon Metcalf, said: "The first Jo heard was that he was in a
local hospital in Sousse and he'd been shot and has undergone surgery and at
that point he was on a ventilator in recovery.

"She then went to visit him, seen him and spoken to the doctors. John was
actually shot in the stomach, just to the side of his belly button.

"I'm not sure if the recovery was to sew a hole or to actually remove the
bullet, but while she was there he was taken off the ventilation machine and he
has come round, and is aware of his surroundings and that she is there with him.

"They are going to keep him more in the intensive care side to closely monitor
him, after that they are going to move him to another ward on the hospital.

"And, after all that, if they think he is making a speedy recovery then he could
be out in about five days at which point they will assess him to see if he is
fit to travel home."

He added: "It is an emotional rollercoaster, you feel so helpless here not being
able to do anything."

Having spoken to Jo, Simon Metcalf has attempted to recall the events at the Riu
Imperial Marhaba Tunisia resort on Friday afternoon.

He said: "They were round the pool and they heard these loud of bangs, shots.

"They thought possibly it was firecrackers or something like that, but then they
realised that it was actually a gunman on the beach who was randomly shooting
people.

"At that point they all ran to the hotel building and at that point John and Jo,
his girlfriend, got separated in the surge towards the hotel somehow he got left
behind her, but obviously he got shot."

Describing John, he said: "He's got lots of friends, we've been inundated with
comments of concern from Facebook and he's a good lad, a hard worker and lots of
friends."

John worked at the Co-Operative store in Park Parade, Hazlemere, alongside Jo.

The Foreign Office has now confirmed that 15 of the 38 people confirmed to be
dead were British.

Minister Tobias Ellwood warned the death toll was likely to rise and said it was
"the most significant terrorist attack on the British people" since the London
7/7 bombings in 2005.

Do you know John or Jo? Get in touch with the Bucks Free Press by calling 07824
530126 or email andrew.colley@london.newsquest.co.uk

And, you can send your wishes to the couple by commenting below.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bucks Free Press

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Man from Hazlemere shot and injured in Tunisia terrorism attack

BYLINE: Andrew Colley

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 572 words


A man from Hazlemere was shot and injured in the Tunisia terrorism attack
yesterday after it is believed he tried to run away from the gunman who
reportedly killed 38 other holidaymakers.

UPDATE: family say terror victim could be home within a week, as more details
emerge of the terrifying attack.

John Metcalf, 43, has had an emergency operation and remains in hospital with
his girlfriend now by his side after she was forced to look for him amongst the
dead bodies of people killed on the beach, fearing he had been murdered.

His mother, Pat Metcalf, has told the Bucks Free Press that all his family and
friends are desperately trying to find out more information about his condition
after they discovered the horrific news this morning.

The 71-year-old from Chalfont St Giles said that along with girlfriend Jo Coles,
also from Hazlemere, the pair had been in the Riu Imperial Marhaba Tunisia
resort since Wednesday but became separated as the hundreds of guest tried to
escape from the danger on Friday morning.

She added: "I think they were round the pool and I think they heard a lot of
what they thought was firecrackers.

"Then they realised it was guns being fired and then they all ran to go into the
hotel, and his girlfriend was in front.

"She went up to the room and when she got there John wasn't there. And it wasn't
until today that we've learned he's been shot.

"I don't know whether he's been shot in the back or the chest but they've done
an emergency operation on him.

"I just want to know how seriously ill he is, how seriously hurt he is. Whether
it's near his heart - I just don't know.

"Jo, the girlfriend, rang my eldest son and then he has rung me to let me know
and since then we haven't heard anything else. She was going to the hospital
when she rang.

"She had to go round looking at dead bodies to see if John was one of them and
then obviously there wasn't so someone took her to hospital and there John was
in hospital."

The terrified mother added: "I feel sick, I keep crying, I can't eat anything, I
didn't sleep last night. It's the not knowing.

"It's not just my family, other families, you go on holiday to have a good time
and they've been looking forward to it and this happens."

The couple both worked at the Co-Operative store in Park Parade, Hazlemere.

Manager Stefan Burrell said: "They both work here and we've heard a bit about
it, it's obviously a worry for everyone. All I can say is head office are
looking into it and will do all they can to try and help."

The Co-Operative in Park Parade, Hazlemere.

So far it has been reported that 38 people were killed-eight British. However,
Prime Minister David Cameron has warned the public to be "prepared for the fact
that many of those killed were British".

Scotland Yard today said police travelled to Tunisia to help investigate the
killings and officers are also interviewing tourists returning at British
airports.

Holiday firm Tui, which runs the Thomson and First Choice brands, said that a
number of those who died were its customers.

According to the Press Association, the gunman was a 23-year-old Tunisian
aviation student who had disguised himself as a tourist and began firing at
holidaymakers on a beach using a gun he had hidden in a beach umbrella.

Do you know John or Jo? Get in touch with the Bucks Free Press by calling 07824
530126 or email andrew.colley@london.newsquest.co.uk

And, you can send your wishes to the couple by commenting below.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Carrick Times

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Terrorist attack simulated at Carrickfergus harbour

LENGTH: 225  words


Thousands of people attended a weekend programme of events in Mid and East
Antrim to mark Armed Forces Day 2015.

It commenced at Carrick waterfront with Royal Navy patrol ships, a flag raising
ceremony, dramatic displays and Beating Retreat with the Band of the Royal
Marines (Scotland).

The Mayor, Councillor Billy Ashe, said: "It was a fantastic success, and we had
great support for all the events across the borough.

"Friday's curtain raising event in Carrickfergus provided an exciting start to
the celebrations, with a hive of activity at the castle and harbour.  On
Saturday, the focus was on Ballymena, with a parade through the town centre,
followed by a wide ranging programme at the showgrounds.

"On Sunday, a reflective church service was held in Larne, as a fitting tribute
to those serving and former service men and women, in addition to the work of
the cadets.

"For me, the highlight was the Royal Marines Reserve sea rescue in Carrickfergus
harbour.  Crowds watched as commandos staged an amphibious assault
demonstration, with simulated gun battle.  The drama included commandos
abseiling from the keep of Carrickfergus Castle - with the crowd cheering them
on.

"It was encouraging to see such a large number of cadets from the three services
taking part across the weekend of events - it is great to see such a strong
future ahead."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INCT


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Three IS related terrorist attacks kill more than 60 in one day

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 284 words


BEIJING -- Terrorists following a call to violence by the Islamic State (IS)
militant group staged three high-profile bloddy terrorist attacks in different
parts of the world in just one single day on Friday, killing and woulding dozens
of innocent people.

The bloodiest of the attacks in the day took place in the Tunisian resort of
Sousse when an armed young man, disguised as a tourist, pulled a Kalashnikov
from a beach umbrella and sprayed gunfire at a group of sunbathers, mostly
Europeans, killing 38 people.

It was the worst attack in Tunisia's modern history and the second most serious
massacre so far this year following the IS militant assault on Tunis Bardo
museum when gunmen killed 21 foreigners in March.

Almost at the same time, 25 people were killed and at least 202 others were
wounded in a suicide bomb strike on a Shiite Muslim mosque in Kuwait. The IS has
claimed responsibility for the attack.

It was the first suicide bombing at a Shiite mosque in Kuwait and worst militant
attack in the country for many years. However, it was not the first time for the
IS group to plot such attacks against mosques. It has also claimed
responsibility for bombings at two different Shiite mosques in neighboring Saudi
Arabia in recent weeks.

On March 20, IS suicide bombers attacked two mosques in Yemen's capital Sanaa
and Houthi headquarters in the northern Saada province, killing at least 137
people, in the most deadliest attacks in Yemen for decades.

In France, which has experienced a slew of terror attacks in January this year
which started with a deadly assault on the French satirical magazine Charlie
Hebdo, a victim was decapitated in a US-owned factory, with a flag of Islamic
State aside.


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

US condemns terrorist attacks in France, Kuwait, Tunisia

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 151 words


The United States condemned Friday in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks
in France, Kuwait and Tunisia, the White House said in a statement.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims of these heinous attacks, their
loved ones, and the people of all three countries," said the statement by the
Press Secretary of the White House, noting "The President has discussed with his
French, Kuwait, and Tunisian counterparts in recent weeks, we are resolute and
united in our shared effort to fight the scourge of terrorism."

"Terrorism has no place in any society, and the United States will continue to
work closely with our international partners to combat terrorist actors and
counter violent extremism around the globe," the statement concluded.

The US State Department spokesperson John Kirby also delivered a statement
condemning the "horrifying terrorist attacks " in the strongest possible terms.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Hollande, Essebsi vow 'solidarity against terrorism' after attacks

SECTION: EUROPE

LENGTH: 152 words


French President Francois Hollande and his Tunisian counterpart Beji Caid
Essebsi expressed their solidarity to face terrorism after assaults hit their
respective countries on Friday.

During a phone conversation, Hollande relayed Paris' support for Tunisian
authorities, which are struggling to uproot Islamist insurgents who emerged
after the 2011 uprising in the North African country, a statement issued by the
presidency office said.

Both leaders also vowed to further cement security cooperation to tackle terror
attacks, it added.

On Friday morning, a man was decapitated and two people were wounded after two
assailants stormed a gas company in Isere, southeastern France, and exploded gas
containers.

Hours laters, in the southern Mediterranean rim, a gunman opened fire on a
Tunisian beachside hotel in the popular resort town of Sousse. At least 27
people, including foreign holidaymakers, were killed.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:11 PM GMT

Gateshead woman among 15 Britons killed by terrorist attack in Tunisia;
Lisa Burbidge from Whickham was on holiday with her family when she was killed
in the attacks on Sousse, Tunisia, on Friday

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 450 words


A Gateshead woman is believed to be among the 15 Britons killed during a
terrorist attack in Tunisia.

The woman, from Whickham, was believed to be one of the British tourists killed
on holiday in the resort of Sousse.

The BBC reported she was on holiday with her family and said her son-in-law
confirmed her death.

Scores of tourists from the region were thought to be in the country at the time
of the attacks on Friday.

Among them was Wallsend teenager Abbie Douglas, who has said she was left
terrified when a gunman opened fire on tourists in the Port El Kantaoui
neighbourhood of the popular resort of Sousse on Friday.

After hearing shots she fled to a hotel room in the Soviva Resort, opposite the
under fire Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba, along with other tourists who barricaded
themselves inside until it was safe to leave.

On Saturday the death toll stood at 38, including 15 Britons, with a further 25
Brits confirmed by the Foreign Office to be among those injured.

Also read:  Tunisia terrorist attack: What to do if you're due to travel from
Newcastle to Tunisia

And, still shaken, the 19-year-old supermarket worker was preparing to fly home
- along with boyfriend Sam Younganan - aboard one of three emergency planes
chartered by travel company Jet2 in response to the tragedy.

"It's been a nightmare," she said speaking from Enfhida airport. "By 12.30pm
they had made a decision and we were told a coach would be arriving and anyone
who wanted to go home could get on it and there would be flights to Manchester
or Leeds, so it was just a matter of running upstairs and throwing everything in
our bags."

By Saturday afternoon 1,000 holidaymakers had returned to the UK from Tunisia on
special flights, with 5,400 still in the country. Most tour operators, including
Thomson, Thomas Cook and easyJet were scheduling emergency flights to help
evacuate tourists caught up in the terror.

Jet2, which operates flights to the region from Newcastle Airport, confirmed on
Saturday all flights to Tunisia would be cancelled until at least July 5.

Abbie who was just two days into her week-long stay at the resort was preparing
for a lengthy journey home with further coach travel set to be provided from
Leeds Bradford Airport,to Newcastle, followingher flight at 6.25pm local time.
She added: "I can't wait to get home, I just want my bed. The attack has left
everyone really nervous - one of the table tennis tables in the hotel lobby fell
over last night and the bang just made everyone panic."

A Thomas Cook flight was due to return to Newcastle Airport from Enfhida airport
at 2pm today. Customers due to travel to Tunisia in the next two days are
advised to contact their tour operator for their options.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 6:18 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Wallsend teenager among thousands of tourists cutting
short holiday;
Abbie Douglas was flying home to the North East on Saturday after a terrorist
attack which left at least 15 Britons dead and more than 25 injured

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 418 words


A Wallsend teenager is among thousands of British tourists cutting short her
holiday in Tunisia following attacks that left at least 15 Britons dead.

Abbie Douglas was left terrified when a gunman opened fire on tourists in the
Port El Kantaoui neighbourhood of the popular Tunisian resort, Sousse, on
Friday.

After hearing shots she fled to a hotel room in the Soviva Resort, opposite the
under fire Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba, along with other tourists and barricaded
themselves inside until it was safe to leave.

On Saturday the death toll stood at 38, including 15 Britons, with a further 25
Brits confirmed by the Foreign Office to be among those injured.

And still shaken the 19-year-old supermarket worker was preparing to fly home,
along with boyfriend Sam Younganan, aboard one of three emergency planes
chartered by travel company Jet2 in response to the tragedy.

"It's been a nightmare," she said speaking from Enfhida airport.

"For most of the day we've just not had a clue what was going on, and we were
waiting from 8.30am.

"By 12.30pm they had made a decision and we were told a coach would be arriving
and anyone who wanted to go home could get on it and there would be flights to
Manchester or Leeds, so it was just a matter of running upstairs and throwing
everything in our bags."

By Saturday afternoon 1,000 holidaymakers had returned to the UK from Tunisia on
special flights, with 5,400 still in the country.

Most tour operators, including Thomson, Thomas Cook and easyJet were scheduling
emergency flights to help evacuate tourists caught up in the terror.

Jet2, which operates flights to the region from Newcastle Airport, confirmed on
Saturday all flights to Tunisia would be cancelled until at least July 5.

Abbie who was just two days into her week long stay at the resort was preparing
for a lengthy journey home with further coach travel set to be provided from
Leeds Bradford Airport, to Newcastle, following her flight at 6.25pm local time.

She added: "I can't wait to get home, I just want my bed.

"I couldn't sleep last night.

"The attack has left everyone really nervous - one of the table tennis tables in
the hotel lobby fell over last night and the bang just made everyone panic.

"It's been awful, we'd been looking forward to the trip and it turned out to be
a nightmare."

Customers due to travel to Tunisia in the next two days are advised to contact
their tour operator for their options.

Those due to travel after this are advised to wait for further information from
the Foreign Office.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 5:23 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Foreign Office says 15 Britons dead as planes fly North
tourists home;
A total of 15 Britons have been confirmed dead and the Foreign Office believe
the number could rise as 39 people now confirmed dead.

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 575 words


Fifteen Briton have been confirmed dead following killed in the Tunisian beach
massacre, but the toll may well rise - the Foreign Office has said.

Confirming the figure, Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood added that the Sousse
atrocity was "the most significant terrorist attack on the British people" since
July 7, 2005, when 52 people were killed.

Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui targeted Western tourists as he
terrorised the popular resort.

Of the 39 dead 15 were British including 24-year-old fashion blogger Carly
Lovett from Gainsborough, Lincolnshire.

Another British victim was named as Adrian Evans, who worked for Sandwell
Council in the West Midlands as a manager in the gas services department.

Speaking in the Foreign Office, Mr Ellwood said: "Sadly, I can confirm that at
least 15 British nationals were killed in yesterday's atrocity but I should
stress that the number may well rise as several more have been seriously injured
in this horrific attack."

He added: "This is the most significant terrorist attack on British people since
7/7 and highlights the ongoing threat of Isil."

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

He said they are "looking at the travel advice" but said they are pleased the
efforts the Tunisians have put in place to increase security in the areas of
concern.

Mr Ellwood said he had spent much of today on the phone with victims and
families caught up in the "appalling attack".

British police have flown to the resort to help identify victims and consular
teams are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected, he said.

Some 39 other people were also wounded in the attack, including 21 who have
already left hospital. Of the wounded, 25 were British.

Scotland Yard said police travelled to Tunisia to help investigate the killings
and officers are also interviewing tourists returning at British airports.

Assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, national policing lead for
counter-terrorism, said: "We've deployed a large number of officers out to
Tunisia, both in terms of our own evidence gathering - forensic experts, helping
the Tunisia authorities - and also we've got experts in family liaison
assisting."

Mr Rowley said it was "fairly clear" the location of the Tunisian attack was
chosen because of the number of Westerners present in the area, he added.

Tour operator Jet2, which operates out of Newcastle Airport, has now said all
flights will be cancelled until at least July 5.

A statement issued on Saturday afternoon from the firm said: "Jet2.com and
Jet2holidays will now be cancelling all flights and holidays to Tunisia up to
and including 5th July 2015. Jet2holidays customers will be offered a full
refund or the option to change their booking without an amendment fee. Jet2.com
customers will be given a full refund.

"In the meantime, those people in resort wishing to return home are already
transferring to the airport in Enfhida and are boarding aircraft home to Leeds
Bradford and Manchester Airports.

"Customers are also being urged to check the Jet2.com and Jet2holidays' websites
and social media channels for immediate information."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 3:45 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: North passengers set to be flown home after attack in
Sousse;
Jet2, which operates flights from Newcastle Airport, is the latest firm to send
planes to bring tourists home after gunmen left 38 tourists dead.

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 254 words


Travel firm Jet2 has announced it will send at least three planes to bring North
travellers home following a terrorist attack in Tunisia.

The firm, which offers package holidays in Sousse on a direct flight from
Newcastle Airport, dispatched three planes from Manchester and Leeds Bradford
Airports on Saturday afternoon - with a fourth plane on standby.

Customers are being contacted via text, mobile and email with travel updates.

Priority is being given to people in the resorts of Skanes, Sousse and Port el
Kantaoui, and coaches will be leaving this afternoon to take people to Enfhida.

Steve Heapy, CEO of Jet2.com and Jet2holidays said: "Our absolute priority is to
ensure the safe passage home of those customers wishing to travel as soon as
possible.

"Aircraft are arriving now in Tunisia and will depart this evening.

"Passengers can rest assured that, as required, we will provide onward transport
from Leeds Bradford and Manchester Airports."

The firm has also confirmed travellers with holidays booked departing UK
airports up to July 5 will have the option to cancel or rebook.

A statement issued on Friday said: "In light of today's events we are offering
customers departing on or before 5th July 2015 the option to cancel or amend
their booking free of charge. "We will be continuously reviewing our policy on
this as more information becomes available."

UK customers with Tunisia related queries or concerned relatives are asked to
call 0113 457 0550, while those in Tunisia should get in contact on 0044 113 387
9501.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 2:09 PM GMT

David Cameron says UK faces a 'severe terrorist threat' following Tunisia
terrorist attack;
At least eight British holidaymakers were shot dead on a Tunisian beach and now
many holiday makers are catching early flights home

BYLINE: By Lisa Hutchinson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 562 words


The UK faces a "severe terrorist threat", David Cameron has warned after at
least eight British holidaymakers were shot dead on a Tunisian beach.

The Prime Minister said there would be "heightened security" as events are held
across the UK to mark Armed Forces Day, - including military ceremonies in
Newcastle, Berwick, Sunderland and Hartlepool - amid fears of a similar attack
on home soil.

The UK's terror threat level was raised to "severe" last August in response to
conflicts in Iraq and Syria - one level below "critical" when an attack is
believed to be "imminent".

Mr Cameron said: "There's no doubt we face a very severe threat in our country
and we have done for many months and many years, but the level of the threat is
identified independently of government and published in the proper way."

He said the most important thing is to "carry on" thanking the armed forces for
their work "knowing that in our country we face a severe terrorist threat".

But he said if people worked together, were vigilant and backed the police, "we
can combat this poisonous narrative of Islamist extremism that is radicalising
too many young minds in our country".

North East families have told of their ordeal after the terrorist killed at
least 39 people and injured 36 in the holiday resort of Sousse.

The attacker came from the beach hiding his Kalashnikov under an umbrella before
opening fire on tourists. From there he entered the Imperial Marhaba hotel
through the pool area, shooting people as he went.

Holiday firm Tui, which runs the Thomson and First Choice brands, confirmed that
a number of those who died were its customers. Many were cutting their holidays
short to catch flights back to Britain.

Speaking outside the Tui UK building near Gatwick Airport, Peter Long, joint CEO
of Tui Group, said he was "deeply, deeply shocked".

"And our whole organisation is reeling with pain to see the suffering that has
taken place in Tunisia."

He added that the company's directors from locations across the UK confirmed
that so far it has repatriated 1,000 customers and that 5,400 still remained in
the area, with everything being done to help those who wanted to return to get
on flights.

However, the company was unable to confirm how many of its customers had been
killed or injured in the tragedy.

Travel agents' association Abta said an estimated 20,000 people were currently
on holiday with its members in Tunisia but there were also others who had
travelled independently.

The worst such attack in Tunisia's history came on the same day a man was found
decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory
and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed, killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked they come after the
so-called Islamic State called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of
calamities for the non-believers".

One victim of the massacre in Sousse has been identified is Irish mother-of-two
Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             coventrytelegraph.net

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 10:58 AM GMT

Coventry couple suffer shrapnel injuries in Tunisian terror attack;
Ross Thompson and Rebecca Smith are currently in hospital waiting to fly home

BYLINE: By Sam Dimmer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 472 words


A couple from Coventry are recovering in hospital in Tunisia after they were
caught up in the terrorist gun attack that killed 37 people.

Ross Thompson and Rebecca Smith were in the resort in Sousse when a gunman
opened fire, killing at least 39 people.

At least five Britons have been confirmed dead so far but that number is
expected to rise.

Neither Ross, aged 22, or Rebecca, were critically injured in the terrifying
attack, but both suffered shrapnel injuries.

It's understood Ross's foot and arm are in a plaster cast while Rebecca has
suffered shrapnel wounds to her entire body.

Both are safe in hospital waiting for a flight home.

Writing on Facebook Ross's mum Mandy Thompson wrote: "Update to all concerned -
Ross and Bes are in hospital with injuries to their legs.

"They will remain in hospital until they can get a flight home.

"Thank God they are safe. We believe that the injuries are due to shrapnel."

She later added: "What fantastic people we have in our lives.

"The support from family, friends and even strangers has been overwhelming.

"Thank you each and everyone of you, you have all helped us as a family today to
stay strong."

The attack was carried out by a 23-year-old student who disguised himself as a
tourist and began firing at holidaymakers on a beach using a Kalashnikov he had
hidden in an umbrella.

The student, identified as Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani, was reportedly laughing as he
carried out the massacre and deliberately selected western tourists.

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: "He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy.

"He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to them, 'You go
away'. He was choosing tourists, British, French."

The student was shot dead by police.

Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack at the RIU
Imperial Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue in the popular Tunisian resort.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon told Sky News: "Sadly, we believe the majority
are British of those who have been killed or injured.

"There are some victims who still have to be identified but the number, I'm sad
to say, is going to increase."

Holiday firm Tui, which runs the Thomson and First Choice brands, confirmed that
a number of those who died were its customers.

Speaking outside the TUI UK building near Gatwick Airport, Peter Long, joint CEO
of Tui Group, said he was "deeply, deeply shocked".

"And our whole organisation is reeling with pain to see the suffering that has
taken place in Tunisia."

He added that the company's directors from locations across the UK confirmed
that so far it has repatriated 1,000 customers and that 5,400 still remained in
the area, with everything being done to help those who wanted to return to get
on flights.

However, the company was unable to confirm how many of its customers had been
killed or injured in the tragedy.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBET


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 6:39 PM GMT

Scottish ministers met police chiefs today to discuss response to terrorist
attack in Tunisia;
FIRST Minister Nicola Sturgeon said the Government was preparing for the
possibility that some of the victims could be Scottish.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 465 words


SCOTTISH ministers have taken part in a resilience meeting to discuss the
ongoing response to the terrorist attack in Sousse, Tunisia.

At least 15 Britons were among 39 holidaymakers killed in the beach massacre.

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, Deputy First Minister John Swinney and other
senior Scottish ministers have met with officials and senior representatives
from Police Scotland for a Scottish Government Resilience Room (SGORR) meeting.

Speaking afterwards, Ms Sturgeon said the Government was preparing for the
possibility that some of the victims could be Scottish, while it stands ready to
offer assistance to holidaymakers arriving back from Tunisia in the coming days.

She said: "This has been a horrifying and senseless act of violence. The
perpetrators of this atrocity do not speak for Muslims, and their actions in the
name of Islam are a perversion of that faith.

"Our heartfelt condolences go to all of those who have lost loved ones in this
horrific attack. My thoughts are also with any families who are worried about
relatives they may not have been able to contact and with all those who have
sustained injuries.

"We understand that a high number of those killed are likely to be UK citizens,
and while there are not so far any confirmed victims from Scotland, we must
prepare ourselves for that possibility."

She added: "The Scottish Government is closely monitoring the situation and we
are in regular contact with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. I would
encourage anyone with any concerns about the welfare of their friends and
families to contact the helpline.

"We stand ready to offer whatever assistance we can, especially as people arrive
back in Scotland from Tunisia in the coming days. I would echo Police Scotland's
advice to remain vigilant and alert and also want to reassure the public that
our counter-terrorism arrangements are as robust as possible."

UK foreign minister Tobias Ellwood said that the Sousse atrocity was "the most
significant terrorist attack on the British people" since July 7 2005, when 52
people were killed.

Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui targeted Western tourists as he
terrorised the popular resort.

Scottish tourist Diane Boyd told BBC Radio Scotland's Newsdrive how she and her
partner ran from the beach after hearing rapid gunfire in the resort.

She said: "We were on the beach sunbathing when we heard sudden noise which
sounded like gunfire. Everyone was running very quickly from the beach into
their hotel so we just got up and ran with them and went into the reception
area, which was all quite hectic.

"We ended up going up to our room for about an hour and from our balcony we
could see the beach. We could see armed policemen, we could see helicopters,
ambulances and coastguards."

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 2:49 PM GMT

Tunisia beach terror attack: Desperate search launched for missing British
couple who haven't been seen since massacre;
SUSAN DAVEY, 44, and Scott Chalkey haven't been seen or heard from since the
attack took place in Tunisia yesterday leaving Susan's son Conor worried.

BYLINE: By David Raven

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 587 words


A SEARCH is underway for a missing British couple who haven't been seen since
the terrorist attack in Tunisia .

Susan Davey, 44, and Scott Chalkey, 42, were last seen on the beach before the
gunman attacked . They had been staying at the Imperial Hotel in Sousse,
Tunisia, where the extremist attacked tourists with an assault rifle.

The couple, who both work for Severn Trent Water, were enjoying their dream
holiday after recently buying a house together.

Just three hours before the massacre, which started on the beach at midday,
Susan wrote a Facebook message to her son Conor Fulford, who was complaining
about his broken phone.

Footage of wounded tourists being taken to hospital in Tunisia

It said: "You'll have to wait until I'm back off holiday son xxx."

Since then, worried Conor has been unable to contact his mum, who has the
surname Fulford on her passport.

Conor tweet

He was told her phone was handed in to police at the beach and that she was
there during the attack, and has seen a picture of a woman on a stretcher he
believes is his mum.

But Conor told the Mirror this morning: "The Foreign office said 20 flights have
left today to return to Britain but they are not on the planes.

"I'm devastated, nobody is helping me, I've rang up hospitals, I've rang around
hotels and I don't even know what to do anymore.

"We've watched the news and my two sisters were sure they had seen her on a
stretcher and it looked like she had been shot in the leg."

The 23-year-old, from Staffordshire, is currently over in America working as a
youth football coach.

He is in contact with a Tunisian who is 'almost certain' that Susan was in
Clinique les Oliviers hospital with a gunshot wound to her leg.

But staff denied she was one of the wounded being treated there.

Doctors released a list of injured British patients at the hospital to the
Telegraph and neither Susan or Scott were included.

Scott's son Ross Naylor, 23, from Derby, also took to Twitter to appeal for
information on his father.

He wrote: "Haven't spoke to my Dad since the attack, please, please, please RT
as he is missing along with his partner."

Conor added: "Mum called me after she landed saying she's so excited to be
there.

"She and Scott have just bought a new house together so they were very excited
about that too."

The distraught son wants as many people on social media as possible to help
spread the word about his missing mother.

He said: "Everyone on Facebook and Twitter have been unbelievable.

"Anybody that is in Tunisia if you see my mum or hear anything please help me
and let me know."

Islamic State officials claimed responsibility for the attack, which Tunisian
Prime Minister Habib Essid said the majority of those killed were from the UK.

Holidaymakers from Germany and Belgium were also slaughtered in the attack on
the popular resort of Sousse.

Thompson and First Choice said they were cancelling all trips to Tunisia this
week after confirming that their customers are amongst those killed.

So far the Foreign Office have confirmed at least five of those killed were
British.

None of the victims have yet been named.

The Britons injured at Clinique les Oliviers hospital reportedly are:

Cristine Kalle, born 1965

Lucy Pettit, 23,

Mary Casey, 22

James Mathiew Rivhard, 38

Naomi Wearing, 18

Alison Brooks, 46

Neil Convey, 25

Louise Knowles, 25

Carol Harrison, 55

Natasha McDonald, 23

Richard Owen, 16

James Mcguire, age not given

The Foreign Office has urged anyone concerned about family or friends to call
its helpline on 0207 008 0000.

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 2:45 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Fundraising page set up for heroic Brit who shielded his
fiancée

BYLINE: Harry Kemble

LENGTH: 349 words


BRAVE Matthew James will not be hard-up when he recovers from his injuries after
a group of fellow gas engineers set up a fundraising page.

More than £3,000 has so far been raised to support the Brit, 30, from
Pontypridd, South Wales, who was hit by three bullets when he was protecting his
fiancée Sarah Wilson in the Tunisia beach attack.

The gas engineer was hit in the hip, chest and pelvis as he shielded the
mother-of-two before telling her: "I love you babe, but just go. Tell our
children that their daddy loves them."

After reading about Matthew's heroics a group of gas engineers - who have never
met him - have come together to launch the fundraising page.

The money raised will support Matthew and his family while he recovers from his
injury.

Gareth Williams created the fundraising page on Friday.

In his post he called Gareth 'a heroic husband' and told how he "put his life on
the line'.

He also wrote: "We can only imagine what they went through and the long road
ahead they face.

"I myself am a gas engineer and a few other gas engineers came up with this idea
and would very much appreciate if you could donate a small amount for this great
cause."

Meanwhile, Matthew is keeping his bravery on the beach a secret - because he
doesn't want them to worry about him.

Sarah has contacted the family back home to tell the family that both her and
Mathew are safe.

She said: "We don't want the children to know anything about it and how daddy
has been hurt.

"We've asked our families not to let them watch the television so they don't ask
any questions.

"They know we are in Tunisia and we don't want them to worry."

The couple have two children - Tegan, six, and Kaden, 14 months - at home with
their family.

Now they are desperate for Matthew to get fit enough to travel back to the UK.

You can donate here.

Related articles Terrorist attacks won't stop us: Scotland Yard tells UK to
continue as normal Islamic State issued deadly warning before Tunisia beach
bloodbath Back to the beach: Grieving tourists return to blood-stained scene of
terror attack

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 12:43 PM GMT

Tunisia beach terror attack: Beauty blogger named as first British victim of
massacre;
CARLY LOVETT 24, from Lincolnshire, is thought to have been on a family holiday
at the resort where gunmen went on a rampage.

BYLINE: By Susie Beever

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 534 words


THE first British victim of yesterday's brutal terror attack on a Tunisian beach
has been named as blogger and photographer Carly Lovett.

Ms Lovett, from Lincolnshire, is one of at least five Brits confirmed dead with
Tunisian authorities estimating that the 'majority' of the victims were from the
UK.

The Lincolnshire Echo reports that Ms Lovett got engaged just six months ago.

She was a former student at the University of Lincoln, and is reported to have
been in the country with friends and family after arriving on Wednesday.

Lincoln School of Film and Media tweeted: "Saddened to hear news reports of
Carly Lovett in Tunisia - Graduate of our University 2013."

The Lincolnshire Echo reports the 24-year-old was a photographer at e-commerce
company fizzco.

Before news of her death, her friend Dave Overton told the paper that she was
"not only friendly but also a tough character with a sensible and practical
outlook on life".

Another friend, Kyle Leeman, 23, who grew up on round the corner from her, said
she was a "kind and outgoing person".

He said: "We went to primary and secondary school together.

"We always used to hang out as kids. Her parents were always really welcoming to
all her friends. I am absolutely devastated.

"It's not something you expect. I knew her sister, her mum, her dad and her
boyfriend. I have heard that a few more people from Lincoln are out there, and
they are now just trying to get home."

He added: "She got me into a lot of the music I am in to. We always had really
great times together. She was always one to express herself. I am really so
sorry for all of her family.

"My thoughts are with them all. If there's anything I can do to help them, I
will always be there to do it.

"They are a really close family, so I think it will hit them all very hard."

Carly Lovett Tweet

Before she left, Carly tweeted: "Definitely leaving in like three hours and
definitely am not finished packing."

The graduate ran a popular blog where she wrote about beauty products.

Her profile says: "My name is Carly I'm the beauty junkie/closet hoarder/design
lover that runs CEE JAY ELL.

"I'm not remotely a beauty expert and probably don't have much beauty knowledge
at all, but so what! I like beauty a lot, love trying new things and
experimenting - I may not blend to perfection, and more often than not I apply
eyeshadow with my fingers - but beauty doesn't have to mean conformity! Grab
yourself a drink (a lot of people may recommend tea, but go crazy and grab
anything!) and have a browse of CEE JAY ELL!"

Beauty blogger Sanita Gourley said members of the blogging community were today
sharing their memories of Carly on online forums.

Claire Fearon tweeted: "The horrors hit us all and though our community is
small, we bloggers are strong. My thoughts go out to @ceejayell_ and all other
lives lost"

Laura Byrne wrote: "Very sad to hear that beauty blogger @ceejayell_ was sadly
caught up in the terrible Tunisa(sic) shootings yesterday and lost her life. RIP
Carly"

A fundraising page has been set up by some bloggers with a target to raise £500
for Carly's family.   'Majority' of victims in Tunisia beach massacre are
British: LIVE updates as aftermath unfolds

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:50 AM GMT

Terrorist attacks won't stop us: Scotland Yard tells UK to continue as normal

BYLINE: Harry Kemble

LENGTH: 404 words


SCOTLAND YARD has not raised the terror threat level following attacks in France
and Tunisia - but urged the public to remain vigilant.

David Cameron today called a second Cobra meeting after the terrifying attacks.

Islamic State has claimed responsibility for the shootings in Tunisia.

A head of man decapitated by terrorists at a factory near Lyon in France was
covered in Islamic inscriptions and left hanging from railings beside an ISIS
flag.

Both attacks came after ISIS sickeningly called for more bloodshed during
Ramadan - the month-long Muslim fast.

Today servicemen and woman are preparing to mark Armed Forces Day up and down
the country.

The PM said: "There will heightened security at Armed Forces Day events.

"The important thing is to carry on thanking armed forces for what they do.

"We need to combat this poisonous narrative from Islamic State."

The Met Police deputy assistant police commissioner Maxine de Brunner said the
situation was being monitored.

She said: "So while the UK terrorism threat level remains unchanged at severe,
we would like to reassure the public we constantly review security plans taking
into account specific intelligence an the wider threat."

She added the public's safety was a "priority".

"We would like to reiterate our long standing advice to remain vigilant and
alert," she said.

Police encouraged the public to attend Armed Forces Day events as normal despite
reports Islamic State planned to bomb a parade in south London.

Scotland Yard's Counter Terrorism Command were last night working to ensure
safety at the Armed Forces Day parade in Merton, South West London after it was
targeted by ISIS.

The terror group unwittingly recruited an undercover Sun newspaper investigator
to explode a pressure cooker bomb.

The Sun contacted the police after a Brit who fled this country to fight for
ISIS trained a reporter to build a explosive.

The police refused to confirm the Sun's report - but did add it was "helpful"
when journalists shared information.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon told the BBC Armed Forces Day was a "huge
opportunity to salute the armed forces for the service and the sacrifice they
make on behalf of us all and also to pay tribute to families who support them".

Related articles SQUADDIE DRUGGIES: 700 are booted out Top brass: Britain has no
defence Heroic former soldier now in the driving seat - after he lost his right
arm

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:45 AM GMT

'Can anybody help me?' Son takes to Twitter to find mum after Tunisia terror
attack

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 429 words


A TERRIFIED son is desperate to find his mother - who was staying at the
Tunisian hotel targeted in Friday's terror attack.

Conor Fulford has taken to Twitter to try and get in contact with his mother Sue
Davy.

At least 38 people are confirmed dead after the attack - with the "majority" of
those killed feared to be Brits.

Conor wrote on Twitter: "Can anybody help me in Tunisia? Not heard off my mom
Need help please.

"She was staying at the imperial and she was on the beach at the time of the
attack and her phone etc has been handed in."

He later posted: "Haven't spoke to my mom since attack an phone has been handed
in please RT!!"

Conor, from Tamworth in Staffordshire, says his sisters believe they saw Suzanne
on a stretcher during a TV report.

Conor said: "My sister back home, they're convinced.

"But again that's not just 100%. In this sort of situation you're just clutching
at straws rent you.

"I'm just trying to get on the internet and just trying to get people in and
around the area to try.. and find where she is."

Among those injured during the attack was Matthew James who used his body as a
human shield to protect his wife.

The 30-year-old was shot in the shoulder, chest and hip as he lay on a sunbed
next to fiancee Sarah Wilson.

Mr James, from Cardiff, is fighting for his life after the terrorist atrocity.

Speaking from a Tunisian hospital 26-year-old Sarah said: "He took a bullet for
me. I owe him my life because he threw himself in front of me when the shooting
started.

"He was covered in blood from the shots but he just told me to run away.

"He told me: 'I love you babe. But just go - tell our children that their daddy
loves them'."

She added: "It was the bravest thing I've ever known. But I just had to leave
him under the sunbed because the shooting just kept on coming.

"I ran back, past bodies on the beach to reach our hotel. It was chaos - there
was a body in the hotel pool and it was just full of blood.

"You just can't explain how terrible it was. It was chaos with screaming and
gunshots. I'm just so glad Matthew is alive because so many other people are
dead."

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: At least five Brits dead after tourists
killed on beach by ISIS Tunisia attack: Dad fighting for his life after using
body as human shield to save fiancee GRAPHIC VIDEO: Horrifying footage captures
holidaymakers running from gunmen in Tunisia Hate preacher Anjem Choudary says
UK and the West to blame for Tunisia and France attacks Tunisia attack: First
picture of mum-of-two gunned down on holiday

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:44 AM GMT

Tunisia beach terror attack: Terrified tourists flee country en mass after
terrorists massacre holidaymakers;
THE Foreign Office has advised people still in Tunisia to remain indoors and
stay off social media in the aftermath of the holiday resort attack.

BYLINE: By Amanda Killelea

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 635 words


DRAGGING their suitcases down a dirt track, desperate holidaymakers began a mass
exodus from Tunisia yesterday.

Many more frightened tourists were holed up in hotel rooms, calling dedicated
hotlines trying to find out how to flee the terror-hit country.

Just hours earlier they had been sunning themselves on a beach, but by last
night any thoughts of holidays were long forgotten.

Debbie Horsfall from Huddersfield witnessed the attack and is now just desperate
to get home.

She said: "My friend stood up and saw a man with the gun firing. We got up and
ran, but we didn't know where to go.

"We have only been here two days - we came on Wednesday. We went back to our
room but we didn't feel safe.

"We just want to go home - we packed right away. We booked our holiday with
Thomson. They said there are no flights at the moment until the airport is safe.
The hotel and beach are on lockdown."

The Foreign Office have sent a team from the embassy in Tunis to Sousse, and two
more teams are travelling to the resort overnight to offer consular support.

They are advising that the attackers may still be at large and all British
nationals nearby should remain indoors, contact their tour operator and the
Foreign Office, and not advertise their locations on social media.

Meanwhile, tour operators say their overseas teams are working round the clock
to help holidaymakers.

TUI, Thomson's parent company, are sending six empty planes to fly tourists back
from Djerba and Enfidha today. Mohamed Ali Toumi, the president of FTAV, the
Tunisian equivalent of British travel agent association ABTA, said a crisis
group had been set up to help with counselling and transport needs.

He told a local radio station: "Telephone lines have been provided so the
injured can reassure their loved ones.

"A specialist team from Britain is en route to Tunisia to determine the degree
of danger Tunisia is facing. That assessment will be decisive for the tour
operators. For the moment I do not want to talk about cancellations because we
have to avoid the errors of the past."

A Belgian plane packed with tourists travelling to the country turned back
yesterday when news of the attacks broke.

But they aren't the only travellers whose holidays may be over before they even
started. Around 400,000 Brits were expected to jet off to Tunisia this year -
but following yesterday's massacre some of Britain's biggest tour operators were
offering refunds or different holidays to customers due to travel to the country
in the next week.

Thomas Cook said their customers booked to travel to Tunisia over the weekend
could cancel free of charge and those booked for travel up to July 31 could
change their bookings at no extra cost.

The north African country has had a chequered relationship with tourism in
recent years, partly triggered by the huge social and political upheaval since
the uprisings of the Arab Spring in 2011. A suicide bomber blew himself up in a
failed attack on the beach in Sousse in October 2013 - the site of the latest
incident.

And in March this year an attack on the National Bardo Museum in March killed 22
people, mostly foreign tourists including a Briton, leaving tensions high.

Even before the latest atrocities, the Foreign Office had published alerts
warning of the dangers of travelling to some hotspots.

Turkey had become increasingly dangerous because of its border with war-torn
Syria. The country is used as a transit point for extremists travelling into
Syria to join Islamic State.

There is also a heightened risk of terrorist attacks in Egypt, with enhanced
security measures in place in the resort areas of Sharm el Sheikh and Hurghada.

And authorities in Morocco have put their security services on high alert
because of an increasing number of Moroccans joining Islamist terror groups.

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 8:37 AM GMT

Tunisia beach terror attack: My fiance took three bullets for me and said 'tell
our children Daddy loves them';
HEROIC Matthew James used his body as a human shield to protect his fiancee from
the gunmen who opened fire on holidaymakers.

BYLINE: By Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 670 words


A HERO dad survived the terror attack despite being shot three times while using
his body as a human shield to protect his fiancee from the gunfire.

Gas engineer Matthew James, 30, who was lying next to Sarah Wilson on the beach,
was hit in the shoulder, chest and hip as one of the gunmen opened fire on their
sunbeds.

Speaking from hospital in Tunisia, Sarah, 26, said: "He took a bullet for me. I
owe him my life because he threw himself in front of me when the shooting
started.

"He was covered in blood from the shots but he just told me to run away.

"He told me, "I love you, babe. But just go - tell our children that their daddy
loves them.

"It was the bravest thing I've ever known.

"I had to leave him under the sunbed because the shooting just kept on coming.

"I ran back, past bodies on the beach, to reach our hotel. It was chaos - there
was a body in the hotel pool and it was full of blood.

"You just can't explain how terrible it was. It was chaos with screaming and
gunshots.

"I'm just so glad Matthew is alive, because so many other people are dead."

The engaged couple, of Pontypridd in Wales, jetted out to Sousse on Sunday for a
two-week break.

They left their two children - Tegan, six, and 14-month-old Kaden - at home with
family.

Beautician Sarah told how she and Matthew headed to the beach as normal
yesterday morning.

She said: "We were just on the sunbeds, messing around and having a nice time,
when we heard these sounds.

"The shooting had started and there was a man with a gun opening fire all
around.

"It is hard to remember just exactly what was going on.

"I only saw the one man in dark clothing but people were being shot.

"Matthew put himself in front of me, then he was hit.

"He moved and the man shot him again. Again he tried to move and he was shot
again.

"He was shouting and blood was pouring out all over.

"I was screaming and it was chaos as more shots were coming out. We were down on
the floor next to the sunbeds to shelter but the shots just kept on coming.

"He just told me to go, to look after our kids and that he loved me.

"I had to go and made it back to the hotel.

"I hid in a towel cupboard to make sure I was safe. It was dark and I could hear
people walking around - it was terrifying.

"Eventually it became quieter and I came out.

"I was desperate to find out what had happened to Matthew but no one was around
to help. It was so badly organised with no one to help and hardly anyone
speaking English."

Sarah added: "I didn't know if he was dead or alive. I was even looking under
white sheets to see if it was his body.

"I kept on speaking to people and after about two hours somebody handed me a
phone and said, 'I have a very grumpy man on the phone who won't do anything
until he has spoken to you.'

"It was Matthew and that was the first time I knew he was alive.

"He just told me he loved me and that he had had an operation to save his life.
I've been to the hospital intensive care and I'm just staying here now.

"His pelvis was shattered by the bullet and he also had a heart attack. But he
is alive.

"I'm just praying we can get out of here as soon as we can."

"We are due to get married in the summer of 2017.

"We will be the luckiest people alive because we have witnessed what nobody
should ever see."

Elizabeth O'Brien, from Dublin, told how she and her two sons, aged 11 and 13,
fled from the beach when the gunfire rang out.

She said: "My sons were in the sea. I just ran to the sea to my children and
grabbed our things.

"As we were running towards the hotel, the waiters and the security on the beach
started shouting, 'Run, run run!'

"I rushed to our room, turned off the air-conditioning and pulled the curtains."

Elizabeth added: "My priority is to get my children home.

"What's happened is barbaric.

"My 11-year-old is affected more than the older one.

"It's very hard - you bring up your children to believe in good.

"I don't want this to scar them for ever."  Tunisia terror attack: Scottish
couple tell of horror and chaos as gunmen opened fire in resort

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 8:23 AM GMT

Tunisia beach terror attack: British schoolboy watched in horror as mum, dad and
gran were murdered by Islamic State terrorists;
THE terrified 16-year-old saw his mum, dad and gran die in a hail of bullets as
terrorists brought mayhem to a holiday resort in Tunisia.

BYLINE: By Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 1138 words


A BRITISH schoolboy watched in horror as his mum, dad and gran were murdered by
Islamic State terrorists in the Tunisia beach massacre.

The terrified 16-year-old survived yesterday's bloodbath which killed 37 people,
including two other Brits, and left 36 more injured.

Doctors said the traumatised boy was injured in the attack but was last night
stable in hospital.

As he recovered, witnesses told how their holiday peace was ­shattered when
gunmen opened fire, sending sun-seekers at Sousse fleeing for their lives.

The boy's relatives were just three of the dead on a day terrorists brought
murder to a Mediterranean holiday beach, a French factory and a mosque in
Kuwait.

Islamic State had called on followers to increase attacks during the Muslim holy
month of Ramadan

Survivors spoke of bullets whizzing past them and the terrifying rattle of
automatic weapons.

Last night, Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said at least five Britons were
among dead.

But he warned that the death toll could rise and said a "high proportion" of the
casualties were expected to be British "because of the nature of the resort".

One of the dead was an Irish woman in her 50s, identified in Ireland as nurse
Lorna Carty, from Navan.

Tunisians, Belgians and Germans were also killed.

Officials in Tunisia said one gunman had been hunted down and another was being
pursued.

The dead terrorist had posed as a swimmer and had hidden his rifle under a
parasol. He was shot dead in the street during a gun battle with police.

Police would not confirm local media claims that the second killer had been
arrested. Last night, holidaymakers at the two hotels nearest the massacre - the
Imperial Marhaba and the Hotel Club Riu Bellevue - told how a morning sunbathing
turned to horror.

They barricaded themselves in rooms with mattresses, bed frames and cupboards
blocking the doors as the gunmen prowled for victims.

British tennis coach Ellie Makin said one of the killers had been strolling
along the beach in front of her with an umbrella before the attack.

Tearful Ellie, 22, added: "Suddenly, he dropped the umbrella and had a gun and
he started shooting everyone to my right.

"I saw a guy get shot in the stomach and another in the head.

"There was blood everywhere. If he had fired to the left I don't know what would
have happened.

"We're quite lucky. There was screaming and people were running left, right and
centre and  scarpering.

"The gunman was medium height, with black hair, top and black khaki trousers or
shorts."

Zoe Pearce was also on the beach when the terrorists went on the rampage.

The 38-year-old, from Eltham, south London, said: "We were lying on beds
sunbathing when we heard a few shots, which sounded like ­fireworks.

"As I looked left, I could see some smoke and people running towards me
screaming.

"I jumped up and started running to the hotel. There were more shots and they
sounded like they were getting louder. There were people everywhere so it was
hard to run.

"I found myself pushing people to get to cover as quick as possible.

"A lady collapsed in front of me and I couldn't help as shots was getting closer
and louder.

"I'm very scared and just want to go home."

Chef Olivia Leathley told how she was chatting to her dad on the phone when the
gunmen struck. The 24-year-old, from Stockport, near Manchester, said: "We heard
a shot from inside the hotel. Somebody just shouted, 'Run' so we sprinted off.

"The machine-gun fire was so close, it sounded like it was right behind us.

"I was on the phone to my dad, Glenn, screaming at the top of my lungs and
telling him, 'I love you, I love you.'

"My dad was saying, 'I love you' and shouting prayers down the phone, begging,
'Lord, protect them'."

Glenn told how his daughter later called back and said the gunmen appeared to
have got into the lobby of the Bellevue and were firing ­indiscriminately. He
added: "I could hear her running. It was ­terrifying. We were praying for her."

Amanda Roberts, from Swansea, also saw the carnage. She said: "I have never seen
so much turmoil and devastation in my life. We ran for our lives.

"It was a horrendous situation. We have to deal with our injuries. A doctor has
come to treat our burns and  injuries to our feet.

"We are grateful to be alive. Even back at the hotel I didn't feel safe." Callum
Emery revealed his parents Christopher and Paula, nan Wanda Goulty and sister
Abigail fled the massacre by speedboat.

The 18-year-old, from Rotherham, said: "My dad called to say they were on the
beach when the gunman appeared.

"A couple of ­speedboats were doing things like water-skiing and came to the
shore. My dad jumped on one boat and my mum, sister and nan jumped on another."

Other witnesses took to social media to tell of the seaside horror. Gary Pine
tweeted: "Gunshots on the beach, mass panic here. ­Confusion rife.

"We heard what we thought was ­firecrackers going off 100 yards away, followed
by an explosion from the next hotel complex along. There was a mass exodus off
the beach."

Radio Leicester's rugby ­commentator Steve Johnson witnessed the ­horror. He
said: "Firearms came from both directions."

Tourist Paige Sharp told how she escaped the killing spree because her partner
slept in. She said: "We normally went down to the beach at 11am.

"But my other half didn't wake up till late. It was a blessing he overslept."

News of the bloodbath broke after a man was beheaded in a suspected terror
attack at a gas factory in France.

Police arrested a man who had been investigated for links to Islamist radicals
at the scene.

They said Yassine Salhi, 35, set off an explosion by ramming his car into
canisters of flammable gas at the plant.

His boss's head was found beside flags with Arabic inscriptions.

And in Kuwait, a group linked to Islamic State killed 25 people and injured 202
in a suicide bombing at Friday prayers in a Shia mosque.

Yesterday, Hammond chaired a meeting of the Government's emergency committee
Cobra in London as PM David Cameron was at the EU summit in Brussels. Cameron
said: "We have to combat not only the terrorism, not only working with the
countries that are suffering but dealing with this poisonous mindset, this death
cult that is poisoning young minds and turning them to this path of mindless
violence.

"Our hearts go out to the victims of these appalling terrorist acts. This is a
threat that faces all of us - these events can happen anywhere.

"People who do these things sometimes say they do it in the name of Islam. They
don't. Islam is a religion of peace.

"They do it in the name of a twisted and perverted ideology that we have to
confront with everything that we have and have to stop the poisoning of young
minds in our country and other European countries and around the world."
Tunisia terror attack: Scottish couple tell of horror and chaos as gunmen opened
fire in resort

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 8:00 AM GMT

In the wake of the Tunisia terror attack we ask: How safe is your holiday?

BYLINE: Ashitha Nagesh

LENGTH: 924 words


BRIT holidaymakers are at a greater threat than ever before of being attacked by
Islamic State , the government has warned.

New travel advice from the Foreign Office has been published alerting Brits to
the dangers of travelling to their favourite holiday hotspots.

Turkey is the most dangerous right now, with a greater number of Islamist
militants entering the country than every before.

Recent terror attacks at Tunisia and Egypt's tourism hotspots have also put
Brits at greater risk.

And political uprisings and homegrown terrorism in Morocco are turning an
otherwise peaceful country into a dangerous destination.

Brit nationals are considered to be "high value" targets in countries where
kidnappings and bombings are likely.

Before you jet set to sunny destinations across the Middle East and North
Africa, these are the facts you should know.

Tunisia

Tunisia is a welcoming modern Islamic democracy with a rich cultural heritage
and hot beaches.

But a terror attack at the popular Bardo museum in Tunis, the capital city, in
March has left the country shaken.

And now the deadly beach massacre at the tourist resorts of Sousse has further
heightened security fears.

Solicitor Sally Adey, 57, from Caynton, Shropshire, was killed in the attack
along with 17 other foreign tourists.

The FCO said: "A number of people were killed, including a British national.
Further attacks are possible."

Other parts of the country have become no-go areas since the rise of extremist
groups ISIS and Libya Dawn in neighbouring Libya.

Libya is currently in the throes of a violent civil war, and the likelihood of
Islamists crossing the border into Tunisia is high.

Turkey

Turkey is one of the most popular holiday destinations for Brit tourists, but it
is becoming increasingly dangerous because of its long border with war-torn
Syria.

The country is used as a transit point for extremists travelling into Syria to
join ISIS and Al-Nusra Front .

But it is also becoming a breeding ground for homegrown terrorists, who launch
attacks against the government, police and judiciary.

Earlier this month, on June 5, two people were killed and many more injured in
an explosion at an HDP rally in Diyarbakir, a large city in southeastern Turkey.

Just four days later, on June 9, four people were killed in a second attack in
Diyarbakir.

And Istanbul, the country's biggest city, attracts 7.5million tourists every
year - but it has been listed as a specific potential target.

The FCO said: "Terrorist groups operating in Syria, including those like [ISIS]
who routinely use kidnapping as a tactic, are present in the Syrian border areas
and are capable of conducting kidnappings from across the border."

It adds: "If you're kidnapped, the reason for your presence is unlikely to serve
as protection or secure your safe release."

Morocco

Morocco has long been a popular holiday destination for Brits and remains so. It
is a largely peaceful country with a rich and welcoming culture.

However, the country's authorities have put their security services on high
alert because of the a growing number of Moroccans joining Islamist terror
groups.

Hundreds of fighters from Morocco and other northern African states such as
Algeria and Tunisia have joined jihadists in Syria and Iraq, and are returning
in their droves.

A statement issued by the Moroccan cabinet office last summer said: "The threats
are linked to the increasing numbers of Moroccans belonging to organisations in
Syria and Iraq.

"Many of these fighters, including some who are leading those organisations,
don't hide their willingness to perpetrate terrorist attacks against our
country."

Egypt

The Pyramids and Sphynx at Giza near Cairo are some of the wonders of the world
and Egypt boasts some of the best seas for sub-aquatic diving.

But the government currently advises against all but absolutely essential travel
to Egypt.

Last week, on June 10, a suicide bomber detonated an explosive belt he was
wearing at the Karnak Temple in Luxor, which is one of the country's most
popular tourist destinations.

It is the second most visited destination in Egypt after the pyramids at Giza.

There is also a high risk of terror attacks in and around the popular resort
areas of Sharm el Sheikh and Hurghada, so officials have increased security.

The most active extremist group in Egypt is Ansar Bait-al-Maqdis which pledged
allegiance to ISIS last November.

This means that Brits in Egypt are at a greater risk of being kidnapped for
ransom than ever before.

There have already been a number of bombings in Cairo and Alexandria this year,
specifically targeting international businesses.

And violent protests and riots across the country are common, and have been so
since the Arab Spring uprisings in 2011.

The FCO warns: "The atmosphere at demonstrations can change quickly and without
warning. Police may use water cannons, tear gas, birdshot or live ammunition for
crowd control.

"If you become aware of nearby protests, leave the area immediately. Don't
attempt to cross road blocks erected by the security forces or protesters.

"Make sure you keep valid photographic identification with you at all times.
Take particular care in areas with history of regular protests.

"Westerners, including British nationals, have been killed, raped and sexually
assaulted at demonstrations."

Related articles WATCH: Porno at the pyramids sparks outrage across Egypt
Missing British couple arrested with four kids on suspicion of heading to Syria
27c UK will be warmer than the Med...but it will only last 2 days

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Isil can mobilise its bloodthirsty global followers far more easily than other
terror groups;
COMMENTARY ; On Tuesday it issued a call to make Ramadan 'a month of disasters
'. These attacks highlight its unrivalled ability to incite terrorism abroad

BYLINE: Charlie Winter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 645 words


YESTERDAY morning, Yassin Salhi, a 35-year-old resident of Saint-Priest in Lyon,
attached a disembodied head to the gates of the factory that he visited as part
of his work, before proceeding to set off a series of small bomb blasts,
presumably intending to cause a much larger explosion.

Just minutes after these reports came in, supporters of Islamic State in Iraq
and the Levant, also known as Isil, who were already congratulating Salhi online
for his exploits, began muttering about a bomb attack on the Shia Imam Sadiq
mosque in Kuwait.

One hour later, Isil's internet supporters reached fever pitch, when it emerged
that a hotel in the Tunisian resort town of Sousse was in the process of being
assaulted by jihadist gunmen.

Of the three attacks, it is only Kuwait's that we know to be linked to Isil: it
was officially claimed by the caliphate's recently minted "Najd Province" - the
Saudi branch of Isil - which named the attacker as Abu Sulayman al-Muwahhid in
its statement. That said, the other two attacks have tacitly been claimed by
Isil supporters, who commended the efforts of the "lions of the caliphate"
involved.

Usually, the caliphate's online clique exercise caution when an attack is
ongoing - this time, though, they were quick to attribute it to their cause.
Whether or not they are right, they are making these judgments based on a number
of reasons.

There is much to suggest - but nothing to confirm - that all three could have
been, in some respects at least, inspired by Isil: Kuwait's attack was
officially claimed; France's featured a beheading and an "Isil flag"; and
Tunisia's was almost immediately attributed to the "men of the [Isil] State" by
some of the group's most prominent disseminators in Iraq.

Of course, it could emerge that the "Isil flag" in question was in fact al-Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula's, or al-Shabaab's - after all, all three groups use
the same banner. It could also turn out that Tunisia's operation was carried out
by the al-Qaeda-aligned "Uqba Ibn Nafi" Brigade. Until it does, though, Isil
fans will continue to keenly lap up the publicity.

These attacks come at a time of heightened emotion for Isil. On Tuesday, a
statement from the caliphal spokesman Abu Mohammed al-Adnani was circulated
online in which he called for Sunni Muslims to "rush and move to make Ramadan a
month of disasters for the kuffar".

At a time when it is losing ground in Syria, Iraq and, more latterly, Libya,
Isil's momentum needs a boost. Al-Adnani said the words he did, recognising
this. It is precisely for this reason, too, that we are seeing Isil's supporters
clamour to claim credit for these attacks.

If it does turn out that the attackers were inspired by Isil, this does not mean
that they were coordinated, let alone planned, by the organisation. The last few
months have resoundingly demonstrated Isil's ability to incite terrorist
operations abroad. Its ideology is at once more accessible and more intoxicating
to its international supporters than that of other jihadist groups.

The totalitarian infusion of utopianism and eschatology, combined with its
blatant disregard for mainstream Muslim public opinion, renders attacks in its
name both more accessible and more urgent. For the Isil enthusiast, statements
like that of al-Adnani on Tuesday act like direct orders.

For a long time, many analysts, myself included, have been warning that the
month of Ramadan would be a violent one. It is something that Isil propaganda
has constantly alluded to in its official messaging, as the organisation's
propagandists have sought to assert its stubborn defiance in the face of the
global coalition and longevity of its political programme.

While it may appear otherwise, attacks like these are not irrational - they lend
momentum to the jihadist cause like nothing else.

Charlie Winter is senior researcher at The Quilliam Foundation

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: France's special forces escort a woman and child from a building near
LyonA group of tourists offer each other comfort following the massacre in the
Tunisian resort town of SousseAMINE BEN AZIZA/REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

massacre at the beach;
Irish mum Lorna among » gunman's victims in Tunisia ; Desperate tourists flee »
country after 37 people die ; Global day of terror with » attacks in France &
Kuwait

BYLINE: KATHY ARMSTRONG

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 77 words


BY KATHY ARMSTRONG AND CILLIAN O'BRIEN AN Irish mum of two was brutally gunned
down in the Tunisia massacre that killed 36 others yesterday.

Lorna Carty was killed in the resort of Sousse on a day of global terror with
attacks in France and Kuwait.

Last night there was a mass exodus as terrified tourists fled Tunisia.

Tragic Lorna was due to fly home to Navan, Co Meath, today and local TD Ray
Butler said: "The community is shocked." FULL STORY: PAGES 2,3,4,5,6&7

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRUTAL ATTACK Towels cover bodies in sand at Sousse yesterdayKILLED
Lorna Carty from Navan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

massacre at the beach;
Irish mum Lorna among gunman's victims in Tunisia Desperate tourists flee
country after 37 people die Global day of terror with attacks in France & Kuwait

BYLINE: KATHY ARMSTRONG ; CILLIAN O'BRIEN

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 73 words


A MOTHER of two from Ireland was gunned down in the Tunisia massacre that killed
36 others yesterday.

Lorna Carty was killed in the resort of Sousse on a day of global terror with
attacks in France and Kuwait. Last night there was a mass exodus as tourists
fled Tunisia.

Lorna was due to fly home to Navan, Co Meath, today. Amid the mayhem, a British
dad was shot three times but survived as he shielded his fiancee.

FULL STORY: PAGES 2,3,4,5,6&7

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KILLED Lorna Carty from NavanBRUTAL ATTACK Towels cover bodies in sand
at Sousse yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Daily Record and Sunday Mail

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SLAUGHTERED ON THEIR SUNBEDS;
Five Brit tourists are among 37 massacred in terrorist gun attack on a beach in
Tunisia

SECTION: NEWS: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 11 words


PARENTS MURDERED PAGES 2&3 HERO DAD PAGES 4&5 THE EXODUS PAGES 6&7

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DRC


             Copyright 2015 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Many victims of Tunisian terror attack 'are British' says PM

BYLINE: Press Association

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 662 words


Many of those killed when a gunman massacred holidaymakers on a Tunisian beach
are British, the Prime Minister has said.

David Cameron warned that the public needs to be prepared for the fact that
''many of those killed'' in the ''savage'' Tunisian shooting were Britons.

He spoke as reports from Tunisia suggested that the UK death toll had risen to
eight out of 39 people killed in the popular resort of Sousse.

Mr Cameron said a ''full deployment team'' of consular staff, police and experts
from the Red Cross would arrive in the North African country today to help the
victims and their families and the Government was doing ''all we can to'' help
them.

Speaking in Downing Street, he said: ''These savage terrorist attacks in
Tunisia, Kuwait and France are a brutal and tragic reminder of the threat faced
around the world from these evil terrorists.''

Mr Cameron said he could only imagine the ''pain, and anguish and agony'' of
families caught up in these ''terrible events''.

''We'll do whatever it takes to help them,'' he said.

Asked about the increased security in place today for events across the UK
marking Armed Forces Day, he said: ''Let's be clear. There's no doubt we face a
very severe threat in our country and we have done for many months and many
years, but the level of the threat is identified independently of government and
published in the proper way.

''But today is about paying tribute to our armed forces and their families who
do so much to keep us safe and we should proceed with those events.''

He said there will be ''heightened security'' and said the most important thing
is to ''carry on'' thanking the armed forces for their work ''knowing that in
our country we face a severe terrorist threat''.

But he said if people worked together, were vigilant and backed the police, ''we
can combat this poisonous narrative of Islamist extremism that is radicalising
too many young minds in our country''.

Mr Cameron spoke to the Tunisian president last night to discuss what more could
be done to tackle the threat.

The Prime Minister, who today chaired a second meeting of the emergency Cobra
committee, said his ''thoughts and prayers are with the loved ones of those
killed or injured''.

''We are working with the Tunisian authorities to identify the final number of
British casualties but I'm afraid that the British public need to be prepared
for the fact that many of those killed were British''.

Mr Cameron insisted ''we will defeat'' Islamic extremists waging terror around
the world.

''These were innocent holidaymakers relaxing and enjoying time with their
friends and families. Like the victims in France and Kuwait yesterday, they did
not pose a threat to anybody.

''These terrorists murdered them because the terrorist oppose people and
countries who stand for peace, tolerance and democracy.

''Wherever they are in the world, these terrorists will not succeed, for as much
as they try to divide people they will only unite us more strongly in our
determination to defeat these Islamist extremists and all they stand for.''

They are thought to have been killed by a 23-year-old Tunisian aviation student
who disguised himself as a tourist and began firing at holidaymakers on a beach
using a Kalashnikov he had hidden in a beach umbrella.

The student, identified as Seifeddine Rezgui, was reportedly laughing as he
carried out the massacre and deliberately selected western tourists.

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: ''He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy. He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to
them, 'You go away'. He was choosing tourists, British, French.''

He was shot dead by police.

Tunisian president Habib Essid said Rezgui, also known by jihadi pseudonym Abu
Yahya al-Qayrawani, came from the town of Gaafour in the Siliana region and had
been a student at the University of Kairouan.

Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack at the RIU
Imperial Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Derby Telegraph

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Daughter's relief as dad safe after terrorist attack

SECTION: AGENCY:OTHER; Pg. 10-11

LENGTH: 410  words


A DAUGHTER has told of her relief after an agonising wait to hear from her
father who was holidaying in the Tunisian resort of  Sousse during yesterday's
terrorist attack.

At least 37 people were killed when two gunmen opened fire on a beach in the
popular seaside town.

And Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond last night revealed at least five British
citizens had been shot dead, with the number of those killed and injured "likely
to rise".

The attack happened on a beach in Sousse, a town on the west coast of the
country, yesterday  afternoon.

One of two gunmen was shot dead in a gunfight with the police after disguising
himself as a swimmer under a parasol. The other is believed to have been
arrested.

It is not yet known if any of those killed were from Derby but one man from the
city currently on holiday there is Kevin Payne, of Alvaston.

Mr Payne, 61, and his partner Hilary Hutchinson flew out to Sousse on Father's
Day and are due back in the UK tomorrow.

His daughter, Rebecca Payne, became increasingly concerned as she tried to
contact him to find out if he was safe.

The 38-year-old, also of Alvaston, said she has been in regular contact with him
via Facebook.

But she said the last time she spoke to him was at about 9.20am British time
yesterday, before the shootings took place.

Ms Payne had previously said: "He has been on his phone all day, every day
bragging about how hot it has been.

"I spoke to him this morning on Facebook Messenger. But he has not been on it
for over seven hours [at the time of writing] and now I'm really worried."

Ms Payne, who has two daughters - Libby, 12 and Sophie, six - then contacted the
Derby Telegraph just after 6.10pm to say she had heard he was safe.

She said: "My dad is safe and sound. He was down the road from where it happened
at the time."

This is the second act of terrorism to take place in Tunisia this year. In
March, militants shot dead 22 people, again mostly foreign tourists, in a museum
in the capital of Tunis.

One man who was due to go to Sousse in four weeks' time for a family holiday is
Andrew Kelly, of Chaddesden.

He and his wife Jayne booked the holiday last September.

They visited their travel agent with concerns following the incident in March
but Mr Kelly said their  fears were brushed aside.

The 43-year-old added: "We don't want to go now. It's not the type of place I
want to be taking my wife and four children if things like that are happening.

"You can't be sure it won't happen again."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The aftermath of the shootings in the Tunisian resort of Sousse, where
Derby couple Kevin Payne and Hilary Hutchinson were holidaying.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Holidaymakers in lockdown after 37 die in terror attack

BYLINE: Sarah Dale

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 317 words


A STOCKTON couple were placed in lockdown in a Tunisian hotel following the
horrific terrorist attack which killed at least 37 people.

Paul Thwaites and his partner are holidaying in Sousse and were sunbathing
around the pool at their hotel when the attack happened at two hotels nearby.

Within hours of the attack, holidaymakers from the targeted hotels were brought
to the Hotel Tour Khalef, where Paul and his partner are staying, by the
busload.

And Mr Thwaites said he didn't know about the attack until his panic-striken
family rang him.

He said: "I received a call from my daughter telling us about it," said Paul, a
manager.

"We've gone into lockdown, bus loads are arriving from other hotels," said the
50-year-old dad.

"Some of them are coming from the hotel where it happened.

"They had been on a trip so had missed it.

"I got a round of drinks in for them.

"My missus is a bit worried about staying here, but we're only here until Sunday
anyway so we're going to try and enjoy what's left of our holiday."

At least 37 people - including at least five Britons - have been killed in the
attack on a beach near two tourist hotels - Riu Imperial Marhaba and the El
Mouradi Palm Marina - in the Tunisian resort town of Sousse, according to the
interior ministry.

The ministry had previously said two attackers were involved, including one who
fled the scene, but has since said a lone gunman was involved.

"A terrorist infiltrated the buildings from the back before opening fire on the
residents of the hotel, including foreigners and Tunisians," ministry spokesman
Mohammed Ali Aroui said.

Sousse is a popular tourist destination in Tunisia. The country has been on high
alert since March when militants killed 22 people, mainly tourists, in an attack
on a museum in the capital Tunis.

Anyone concerned about family ¦or friends in Tunisia can ring the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office helpline on 0207 0080000.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Paul ¦Thwaites and his partner had been enjoying a break in Sousse
before the attack on beachgoers nearbyThese screengrabs from Tunisia TV1, above
and below, show injured people being treated on a Tunisian beach after ¦a lone
gunman rushed from the beach into a hotel in the resort of Sousse, killing at
least 37 people and wounding 36

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EGM


                    Copyright 2015 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:01 AM GMT

Tunisia Terror Attack: Huddersfield honeymoon couple still waiting to be
evacuated;
The Huddersfield couple and their two-year-old son are staying three miles from
the deadly terror attack in Tunisia

BYLINE: By Louise Cooper

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 456 words


A Huddersfield honeymoon couple and their young son are among thousands waiting
to be evacuated after deadly terror attack in Tunisia.

Lee and Jessica Goldspink, are staying in Sousse with their two-year-old son and
were among many guests locked in a hotel as news of the terror attack broke.

The pair, who married at Briar Court Hotel last month, are in a resort around
three miles from the scene where 39 people were killed in the gun rampage.

Jessica's sister Sophie said this morning: "They've been told last night that
Thomson have 10 planes which are evacuating tourists back home but they haven't
heard anymore.

"I spoke to her last night and they had been allowed to go into the lobby area
and to get some food.

"She was calmer than earlier on but you could hear it in her voice she just
wants to come home.

"They have met another couple from Brighouse and were chatting with them as they
all want the same thing, to leave safely."

The couple told yesterday how hotel staff told them to leave the pool area.

Sophie said: "They had been by the pool when staff came and told people to get
back into the hotel.

"They didn't know what was happening but then saw it on the news."

"They packed their bags and were just watching the news in their hotel room.

"She said she felt safer knowing their were armed guards and a helicopter around
their hotel."

Terrorist attack in Tunisia

Sophie said her sister had raised concerns with travel operator Thomson before
the holiday and wanted to cancel.

She added: "She had been watching developments out their of another attack and
wanted to cancel but they wouldn't offer a refund or a transfer because it
wasn't a high risk area."

Peter Long, joint chief executive of the TUI Group, which includes travel firms
Thomson and First Choice, speaking of the terrorist attack said he was "deeply,
deeply shocked" at events in Tunisia, continuing: "Our whole organisation is
reeling with pain to see the suffering that is taking place in Tunisia with our
customers."

Mr Long said the company had expressed its "deepest sympathies" for the "trauma"
that its customers had experienced in Tunisia.

He added: "We are doing our very, very best to look after our guests who are
still in Tunisia."

Nick Longman, managing director of TUI UK, confirmed that some of those who had
died were Thomson customers.

TUI confirmed (as of Saturday morning) that so far it has repatriated 1,000
customers and that 5,400 still remained in the area, with everything being done
to help those who wanted to return to get on flights.

Thomson has cancelled all Tunisian holidays for the next week as thousands of
British tourists head home.

Have you or your family been affected by the terror attack in Tunisia? Contact
the newsdesk on 01484 437769.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:49 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Thousands raised for Brit who was shot at while
protecting fiancée

BYLINE: Levi Winchester

LENGTH: 501 words


THOUSANDS of pounds has been raised in just ONE day for a heroic Briton who used
himself as a human shield to protect his fiancée during the Tunisia terror
attack.

WALES NEWS SERVICE

Matthew James protected his fiancée Sarah Wilson

Matthew James, from Pontypridd, south Wales, was shot three times as he shielded
his wife-to-be Sarah Wilson from a gunman who opened fire at the popular beach
resort of Sousse.

The 30-year-old later suffered a heart attack after being struck in the hip,
chest and shoulder and is now recovering in hospital following surgery.

His bravery has touched the hearts of the nation, and has now sparked an online
fundraising page to raise money for the father-of-two while he recovers from his
injuries.

Organiser Ian Spedding, 53, from Burnley, said he was delighted that donations
had reached almost £7,800 in just a few hours.

He said: "We heard about the story yesterday and were discussing it on some gas
engineer forums and it occurred to us that he might not be able to work for a
while.

"He's one of our own and we look out for our own. If he's not working his family
will need the support and it's good to see everyone rallying around him."

Mr James and Ms Wilson jetted out to Sousse on June 21 for a two-week break -
with their two children Tegan, six, and Kaden, 14 months staying at home in the
UK with relatives.

But just five days into their holiday, a gunman linked to Islamic State opened
fire on tourists relaxing on sunbeds.

Mr James, a gas engineer, was lying next to Ms Wilson when the bullets started
flying and he selflessly used his own body as a human shield.

WALES NEWS SERVICE

Mr James was shot at three times in the horrific attack

Ms Wilson has previously spoke of how her partner saved her life after taking a
bullet for her.

She said: "He was covered in blood from the shots but he just told me to run
away.

"He told me: 'I love you babe. But just go - tell our children that their daddy
loves them'.

"It was the bravest thing I've ever known. But I just had to leave him under the
sunbed because the shooting just kept on coming.

"I ran back, past bodies on the beach to reach our hotel. It was chaos - there
was a body in the hotel pool and it was just full of blood."

The 26-year-old then had to endure an anxious two hour wait to find out what had
happened to her fiancé before rushing to a local hospital after learning he had
life-saving surgery.

At least 15 British victims have been identified among the 38 people killed in
the horrific attack, which happened on Friday.

Three of the British victims were today named as beauty blogger Carly Lovett,
council worker Adrian Evans and local football referee Joel Richards.

David Cameron warned the UK public to be prepared for the fact "many of those
killed" in the "savage" shooting were Britons.

· The fundraising page for Mr James is available at GoFundMe.com

Related articles  Tunisia terror attack: Three victims named among British dead
in...  Tunisia terror attack: Briton used body as human shield to protect...

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 8:39 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Gunman 'seemed like just a normal guy'

BYLINE: James Murray

LENGTH: 385 words


THE gunman who left 38 dead in the beach massacre was "a normal guy" and unknown
to the security services.

AFP

Seifeddine Rezgul, one of the suspected gunmen

Seifeddine Rezgui, a 23-yearold aviation graduate, had never travelled abroad
and was not linked with any terror groups.

Scotland Yard detectives are flying out to Tunisia to help investigate the
circumstances behind the massacre and find who his puppet masters were. Rezgui
came from Gaafour, a town in the Siliana region, and had been a student at
University of Kairouan.

His family were said to be "very, very shocked" at his part in the killings.

He had returned home on Thursday and unusually had his beard shaved, locals
said.

Jihadists are known to shave their body hair before carrying out suicide
attacks.

However, he showed no signs of extremism and was just "a very normal guy",
according to local reports.

Eyewitnesses saw Rezgui on the beach in an inflatable Zodiac boat wearing blue
shorts and a black short sleeve top before opening fire with a Kalashnikov.

He was killed by Tunisian authorities.

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Briton used body as human shield to
protect fiancee being killed Tunisia terror attack: Brit teen who survived
massacre saw family gunned down and killed Tunisia terror attack: Desperate
relatives appeal for news over fate of loved ones

Islamic State has claimed responsibilty for the attack and identified the gunman
by his jihadi pseudonym Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani.

It said the massacre was an attack "upon the nests of fornication, vice and
disbelief in God" and warned of "worse to follow".

Rezgui hurled his phone into the sea and Yard officers will check what data is
on it to see if he was a sleeper or had links with IS leaders in Libya or Syria.

At Scotland Yard yesterday, Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, national
policing lead for counter terrorism, said: "We've deployed a large number of
officers out to Tunisia in terms of our own evidence gathering and also we've
got experts in family liaison assisting."

He urged the public to be "vigilant" and said anyone with information about
terrorism, including the attack in Tunisia, should contact police.

Domestic terror arrests rose by almost a third last year to 289 as police and
religious leaders tried to halt people joining Islamic extremists in Syria.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 3:43 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Desperate relatives appeal for news over fate of loved
ones

BYLINE: Helen Barnett

LENGTH: 960 words


DESPERATE relatives are frantically appealing for news of their loved ones who
were holidaying on a beach in Tunisia when a terrorist gunman opened fire.

IG

John and Janet Stocker, Suzanne Fulford and Scott Chalkley are missing in
Tunisia

Conor Fulford, Ross Naylor and Samuel Stocker have today taken to social media
to spread their message.

Mr Fulford, 23, has discovered his mother and her partner were on the beach at
the Riu Bellevue Park in Sousse where an Islamic State gunman opened fire.

Their bags were found by hotel staff.

Mr Fulford has been told by people in Tunisia his mother Suzanne Fulford, 44, of
Tamworth, Staffs, has been shot in the leg and is in hospital.

But he has had no official information and is relying on the goodwill of people
in Tunisia running from hotel to hotel and hospitals to frantically search for
information.

No one has seen or heard from his mother or her partner Scott Chalkley, 42, of
Derby, since the Tunisia attack  where 38 tourists were shot dead in the five
star Imperial Marhaba hotel and the beach at the Riu Bellevue Park.

The couple, who have been together for 18 months, were two days into their
holiday at the Imperial Marhaba, which they had booked as a celebration after
buying their first house together.

IG

Janet and John Stocker's grandson Samuel started a hashtag
#FindJohnandJanetStocker

If you're in #Tunisia #ImperialMaharba and you've seen this man, please let me
know he's safe. #FindJohnStocker pic.twitter.com/BL4fs62Fno

- Samuel Stocker June 26, 2015

My brother @SLStocker91 is doing an amazing job getting #FindJohnStocker
trending. Desperately waiting for news. pic.twitter.com/xjrF1iSC9d

- Laura June 27, 2015

Mr Fulford said his "heart stopped" when he heard about the terror attack and
has spoken to hundreds of people in the country..

He said: "I just said 'my mum is in Tunisia'.

"People have been running around for me to all the hotels and different
hospitals. The support I've had has been unbelievable.

"Nobody seems to know where they are. We know my mum and Scott are not on the 20
planes that have come home.

"One of my friends has a good friend in Tunisia who went around the hospitals
and he is adamant my mum has been shot in the leg but is alive in hospital.

"But we have had no confirmation from anybody yet so it is just a waiting game."

IG

Suzanne Fulford and Scott Chalkley were on holiday celebrating their new house
Related articles Tunisia terror attack: First British victim named as smiling
Islamic State gunman revealed Tunisia terror attack: Briton used body as human
shield to protect fiancee being killed Tunisia terror attack: Brit teen who
survived massacre saw family gunned down and killed Tunisia attack: Holidays to
Sousse cancelled as thousands of Britons arrive home

Can people please retweet this i cannot get in touch with my mom in #Tunisia ?
she was staying at the resort that got attacked ?

- Conor Fulford June 26, 2015

Still haven't got more information on my mom #FindSueDavey anybody in #Tunisia
that can help please tweet me !?

- Conor Fulford June 27, 2015

GETTY

Tourists comfort each other after the mass shooting

Mum-of-four Suzanne, from Tamworth, Staffs., works as a manager in the
complaints department at Severn Trent Water and has recently divorced from
Conor's father.

Thousands of British holidaymakers are being flown back home today.

Mr Chalkley's son Ross Naylor, 23, added: "We've heard nothing at all. No one's
seen him at the hotel lobby, they've called his room but there's no answer.

"They say no news is good news, but I would just rather hear something. The
waiting is killing me. I don't what to do with myself.

"I just want to hear that he's safe."

Ross's tweet has been retweeted more than 5,500 times by social media users.

Sam Stocker, of Crawley, and his sister Laura are desparetely trying to trace
their grandparents John and Janet Stocker.

GETTY

A Tunisian police car patrols in front of the Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel

Haven't spoke to my Dad since the attack, please, please, please RT as he is
missing along with his partner #Tunisia pic.twitter.com/s1Mp2loO1W

- A$AP ROSSI June 26, 2015

He managed to get the hastag #findJohnandJanetStocker trending on Twitter and
has released photographs of the couple.

He says he has not heard from them since the attack.

He tweeted: "Some more photos of my nan and granddad. Still no contact. #Tunisia
#SousseAttacks. Please help me and my family."

After support flooded in he said: "You are all amazing. When your faith in
humanity is destroyed, it gets restored even stronger. Love u all.
#FindJohnAndJanetStocker #Tunisia"

Eight Britons are confirmed to have died in yesterday's terror attacks, although
the number is expected to significantly rise.

IG

John Welch and Eileen Swannack are missing in Tunisia following the Sousse
attack

Daniel Welch, 29, of Swindon, said his family "can only expect the worse" as
they plead for information of his grandfather John Welch, 74, and his partner
Eileen Swannack, 70.

He hasn't heard from them since Thursday when they called home to say they were
having a "great time".

Mr Welch, of Corsham in Wiltshire, and his partner of eight years Ms Swannack
were staying at the RIU Imperial Marhaba, which was one of the hotels attacked
in Sousse.

They have visited the hotel twice a year for the last eight years as plumber Mr
Welch "adores" Tunisia.

Grandson Mr Welch said: "You know that we're going to get some sort of news at
some point, whether it be today, tomorrow or the next day, and you know it's
probably not going to be great, because they haven't been able to make contact
themselves by now.

"But it's just that not knowing.

"We are at a bit of a loss and we can only expect the worst."

The hotel told the family the couple are not at the hotel but they have not
checked out.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:10 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Briton used body as human shield to protect fiancee being
killed

BYLINE: Dion Dassanayake

LENGTH: 653 words


A HEROIC Briton was shot three times as he used his body to protecting his
fiancee being killed by gunman during the Tunisia terrorist attack today.

WALES NEWS SERVICE · EPA

Matthew James used his body to protect Sarah Wilson during the Tunisia terror
attack

Matthew James, 30, was hit in the shoulder, chest and hip by gunmen linked to
Islamic State who opened fire on tourists relaxing on sunbeds.

The gas engineer was lying next to fiancee Sarah Wilson when the terrorists
started firing and he selflessly used his own body as a human shield.

Speaking from a hospital in Tunisia, 26-year-old Ms Wilson said: "He took a
bullet for me. I owe him my life because he threw himself in front of me when
the shooting started.

"He was covered in blood from the shots but he just told me to run away.

"He told me: 'I love you babe. But just go - tell our children that their daddy
loves them'.

"It was the bravest thing I've ever known."

At least 37 people were killed in the attack after a gunman disguised as a
holidaymaker pulled out a Kalashnikov hidden inside an umbrella.

Other Brits who narrowly escaped the gunman described how "the world stopped for
a minute".

WALES NEWS SERVICE

Matthew James was shot three times protecting fiancee Sarah Wilson

Those killed in the terror attack at the popular Tunisian holiday include
Britons and an Irish woman.

Ms Wilson and Mr James, from Pontypridd in South Wales, left their two children
Tegan, six, and Kaden, 14 months at home with their family when they jetted out
to Sousse on June 21 for a two week break.

Beautician Ms Wilson told how they headed to the beach as normal in the morning
- with no idea of the horror due to unfold.

She said: "We were just on the sunbeds, messing around and having a nice time
when we heard these sounds.

"The shooting had started and there was a man with a gun opening fire all
around. It is hard to remember just exactly what was going on.

"I only saw the one man in dark clothing but people were being shot.

WALES NEWS SERVICE

Matthew James and Sarah Wilson left their two children in the UK to go on
holiday to Tunisia

"Matthew put himself in front of me then he was hit, he moved and the man shot
him again. Again he tried to move and he was shot again.

"He was shouting and blood was pouring out all over. I was screaming and it was
chaos as more shots were coming out.

"We were down on the floor next to the sunbeds to shelter but the shots just
kept on coming. He just told me to go, to look after our kids and that he loved
me.

EPA

The gunmen who carried out the Tunisia terror attack are linked to Islamic State

"I had to go and made it back to the hotel.

"I hid in a towel cupboard to make sure I was safe. It was dark and I could hear
people walking around - it was terrifying."

Related articles French factory attack: Man BEHEADED by Islamic State extremists
Tunisia terror attack: Brits among 37 killed in 'ISIS shooting' at Sousse
holiday resort PM calls emergency meeting as ex-extremist warns UK could face
terror attack 'within days' Tunisia terror attack: 'The world seemed to stop for
a minute', say British tourists Tunisa terror attack: Brit teen who survived
massacre saw family gunned down and killed ISIS terror suspect got chemical
plant delivery job while ON French spies' EXTREMIST list

Ms Wilson said while she was hiding for safety in the hotel she did not know if
her fiancee was dead or alive.

She said once she had emerged from her hiding place she could find "no-one
around to help".

Ms Wilson had to resort to looking under white sheets hiding bodies to see if it
was her fiancee.

Around two hours later she received a phone call from Mr James saying he had an
operation to save his life.

Ms Wilson said: "I've been to the hospital intensive care and I'm just staying
here on a chair now.

"His pelvis was shattered by the bullet and he also had a heart attack.

"But he is alive. I'm just praying we can get out of here as soon as we can."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:23 AM GMT

France attack: terror inquiry launched and suspect arrested - as it happened;
Suspect named after decapitated body found at site of attack near
LyonDecapitated body found in attack on French factoryHollande: attack bears
hallmarks of terrorismRead the latest summary

BYLINE: Matthew Weaver and Haroon Siddique

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 3257 words


block-time published-time 2.50pm BST

As attention focuses to events in Tunisia and Kuwait, we are going to bring this
blog to close for now. You can follow the latest here.

block-time published-time 2.46pm BST

A French security official has confirmed to AP, that the man whose severed head
was found hanging at the gate of the factory has been identified as a local
businessman. The security official, who was not authorized to speak to the media
and requested anonymity, said the victim was the head of a local transportation
company and was believed to have been killed before the explosion. His name was
not released. Authorities had said his body was found near the site of the
attack.

block-time published-time 2.42pm BST

Yassin Sahli's wife has also been arrested, according to AFP citing a legal
source.

enltr #BREAKING Wife of France gas factory attack suspect held: legal source

- Agence France-Presse (@AFP) June 26, 2015

block-time published-time 2.37pm BST

Scotland Yard said it was "monitoring the situation" after the attacks in
Tunisia and France, writes Vikram Dodd.

It said it constantly reviews security and urged the public to remain vigilant
and report anything suspicious. It said the threat level to the UK from
international terrorism remained "severe" , which means an attack remains highly
likely.

block-time published-time 2.30pm BST

Our error about the other suspects being killed was based on mistranslation,
according to reader Christian Müller.

The verb the interior minister used was "neutraliser", and referred to the
fireman apprehending the (so far) only suspect, who was then arrested.

Apologies for the confusion.

block-time published-time 2.18pm BST

Correction

There is now uncertainty about whether one of the attackers was killed in the
incident.

Our earlier report that one of the suspects was killed was based on a press
conference given by France's interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve.

According to a translation from BBC News Cazeneuve said: "The alleged author of
this crime had been killed after he had committed his crime. He had been killed
by one person from security who had the courage and cold blood to confront this
individual. This firefighter I would like to express to him my thanks for the
speed of their intervention."

We now think this may have been a mistranslation. AFP said Cazeneuve was
referring to a firefighter who overpowered and "neutralised" Salhi, the arrested
suspect.

"I would like to offer my deepest thanks to the firefighter and his colleagues
who came to the scene for their promptness and effectiveness," AFP quoted him
saying.

There is also uncertainty about the man who was decapitated, as Reuters points
out.

It was not known whether the victim, so far the only known fatality in the
incident that also injured two people, was decapitated before or after the car
smashed into the building, or whether the victim had been on site at the time of
the attack, or killed elsewhere.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.24pm BST

block-time published-time 2.05pm BST

France's prime minister, Manuel Valls, said today's attack was act of "Islamist
terrorism," announcing he was cutting short a visit to South America to deal
with the crisis, AFP reports.

"Islamist terrorism has hit France again," Manuel Valls told a press conference
in Colombia's capital Bogota, adding that he would take part by telephone in an
emergency meeting called by President Francois Hollande, then rush back to
France.

Valls described the assault as appalling and said it "shows that the jihadist
threat remains very high."

block-time published-time 1.58pm BST

David Cameron Photograph: Stephanie Lecocq/EPA

David Cameron has condemned today's attack and the killing of at least 27 people
in Tunisia.

He said the attacks were carried out in the name of a "twisted and perverted
ideology that we have to confront with everything that we have". He pointed out
that Islam was a religion of peace.

Speaking at the EU summit in Brussels he added: "We must stop the poisoning of
these young minds in our country and other European countries and around the
world."

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.10pm BST

block-time published-time 1.53pm BST

A few more details have emerged about the arrested suspect, according to Reuters
who spells his name as Yassin Sahli.

French media said Sahli was a 35-year-old professional driver who lived in the
Lyon suburb. There was no official confirmation of that, Reuters pointed out.

block-time published-time 1.27pm BST

According, again, to the Dauphiné Libéré newspaper, the decapitated victim has
been identified as the manager of a transport company based in Chassieu, about
20 miles from the attack. He was attacked at the Air Products factory after
coming for a delivery, the paper said, not naming the victim.

block-time published-time 1.17pm BST

In 2012 a man named Yassine Salhi, the believed identity of the attacker in
custody, was reported to have hurled anti-semitic abuse at a Jewish teenager on
a train travelling from Toulouse to Lyon. According to the report on the Jewish
Telegraphic Agency website, Salhi and another man, both of north African
descent, also exchanged blows with the teenager. The JTA report said that the
case was being investigated by French prosecutors. It is unclear if it ever went
to court.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.00pm BST

block-time published-time 1.12pm BST

Summary

Here's a summary of what we know so far:


     ·    France has launched a terrorism investigation after police found a
          decapitated body and a flag with Islamist inscriptions after two men
          attacked a factory near Lyon.
     ·    One of the suspected attackers was arrested and named as 35-year-old
          Yassine Sali. He was known to the security forces over suspected links
          to to a Salifist group, but has no criminal record.
     ·    A decapitated body found at the scene had a message written on it. The
          victim has not been named. Two other people were injured. Islamic
          flags were also found at the scene.
     ·    The factory belonged to Air Products, a US company based in
          Pennsylvania, which supplies gases, chemicals and associated
          equipment. It said all of its employees were accounted for.
     ·    France's president, François Hollande condemned what he called "a
          terror attack". He is due to hold an emergency meeting in Paris after
          exiting early from an EU summit in Brussels.


This post has been changed after we incorrectly stated that one of the suspects
was killed in the incident.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.31pm BST

block-time published-time 12.55pm BST

According to the Dauphiné Libéré newspaper a second suspect has been arrested,
at his home in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier.

He is believed to be a man seen driving around near the factory in a Ford car
before the attack, a suspected reconnaissance attempt, the paper said.

block-time published-time 12.50pm BST

The arrested suspect Yacinne Sali, is a 35-year-old, who was in "in contact with
a salafist movement", Cazeneuve's statement said.

He was described as living in the Lyon area at Saint-Priest. "He had been noted
for his radicalisation, but was not known to have any links to terrorist
figures," Cazeneuve added.

block-time published-time 12.48pm BST

Here's the full statement from Air Products the owners of the factory that was
attacked:

We can confirm that an incident occurred at our facility in L'Isle-d'Abeau,
France this morning.

Our priority at this stage is to take care of our employees, who have been
evacuated from the site and all accounted for.

Emergency services are on site and have contained the situation. The site is
secure. Our crisis and emergency response teams have been activated and are
working closely with all relevant authorities.

Further information will be released as soon as it becomes available.

block-time published-time 12.46pm BST

Angelique Chrisafis gauges the immediate political reaction in Paris.

The French political class, still reeling from the bloody terrorist attacks on
the magazine Charlie Hebdo and a Paris Kosher supermarket nearly six months ago,
has for months been engaged in heated debate on surveillance powers and national
security.

Both the right and left had been stressing the ongoing terrorist threat and the
country's security services had been on high-alert. Today's attack on the
factory in Isère brought immediate political reaction, with all parties
stressing France should not give in to fear.

On the right, Alain Juppé, a former prime minister from Nicolas Sarkozy's
right-wing Les Républicains, who is challenging Sarkozy to be 2017 presidential
candidate, tweeted "The terrorist threat is at maximum. The Isere attacks is
alas a reminder. The state must do everything to protect its citizens."

frltrLa menace terroriste est maximum. L'attentat en Isère nous le rappelle
hélas! L'Etat doit tout mettre en oeuvre pour protéger ses citoyens.

- Alain Juppé (@alainjuppe) June 26, 2015

Sarkozy later issued a statement saying "The Republic will never give in to
terrorist barbarism."

The Socialist party leader Jean-Christophe Cambadélis tweeted his "great
emotion" after the attack and the way in which it happened. He said "Let's stay
united", "We must not play on fears."

frltrGrande émotion devant cet attentat et son mode opératoire. Restons unis.
Pas d'amalgames. Ne jouons pas sur les peurs. #Isère

- Jean-Chr. Cambadélis (@jccambadelis) June 26, 2015

The far-right Front National leader Marine Le Pen immediately demanded "strong
measures" to "combat islamism".

block-time published-time 12.39pm BST

The identity of the arrested suspect is still to be verified, but he is thought
to be Yassine Sali, Cazeneuve confirmed.

"This person was under investigation for radicalisation but this investigation
was not renewed in 2008. He had no police record," the minister said.

Cazeneuve praised the courage of the firefighter who killed the other suspect.

block-time published-time 12.30pm BST

The arrested suspect was "under the radar" of the security services, Cazeneuve
says. Flags were found at the scene, he confirms.

Various spellings are being given for the name of the arrested man.

enltrFrench interior minister @bCazeneuve names suspect in #Isere attack as
Yacine Sali -known to police. Was on security watch list.

- Jon Williams (@WilliamsJon) June 26, 2015

Cazeneuve said the police opened a file on the arrested man in 2006, over
suspected links with a radical Salafist group. The surveillance was stopped in
2008, he added.

block-time published-time 12.19pm BST

One attacker killed

French interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve is making a statement at the scene.
An anti terrorist investigation is under way, he says. He names the arrested
suspect as Yassine Salim.

The other suspect was killed in the attack by a firefighter.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.21pm BST

block-time published-time 12.15pm BST

Here's Hollande's statement at the EU summit in Brussels.

Francois Hollande's statement at the EU summit in Brussels following a suspected
terrorist attack near Lyon.

block-time published-time 12.12pm BST

All of the employees at the factory have been accounted for, according to a
statement from Air Products.

Meanwhile, the French interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, has been meeeting
members of the emergency services at the scene.

frltr #Isère@BCazeneuve à St-Quentin Fallavier avec les personnels de secours
présents sur le site l'attaque terroriste pic.twitter.com/fW10YPUV7t

- Ministère Intérieur (@Place_Beauvau) June 26, 2015

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.21pm BST

block-time published-time 12.03pm BST

The factory where the attack took place is owned by Air Products, a US company,
headquartered in Pennsylvania, writes Haroon Siddique.

The company supplies gases, chemicals and equipment for products ranging from
TVs and mobile phones to sports cars and running shoes.

Air Products was founded in 1940 and has grown to be the 276th largest company
in the US with $10.4bn of global sales last year. It employs more than 20,000
people in 50 countries. Its French subsidiary was created in 1990 and it employs
400 people in the country across a number of sites. It is the third largest
producer of atmospheric gases in France, with more than 15% of national
production.

French police secure the entrance of the Air Products factory in
Saint-Quentin-Fallavier. Photograph: Abaca/Barcroft Media

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.22pm BST

block-time published-time 12.00pm BST

In his statement, Hollande confirmed that the attack happened just before 10am
local time when two suspects drove into the factory. He said they attacked the
factory "using gas canisters".

Here's a translation of what he said:

We have no doubt the attack was intended to blow up the building. The attack
bears the hallmarks of a terrorist attack. A decapitated body was found with
inscriptions written on it. There was one dead and two injured. The interior
minister went to the scene immediately. The suspect who carried out this attack
was arrested and identified."

He did not give any details about the second attacker.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.23pm BST

block-time published-time 11.50am BST

Speaking in Brussels, Hollande says fellow European leaders have all expressed
their solidarity with France after the attacks. He confirms he is due to head
back to Paris after his statement.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.56am BST

block-time published-time 11.48am BST

Hollande says two attackers drove into the factory. "The attack bears the
hallmarks of a terrorist attack," he said. He confirms that a body was found at
the scene with inscriptions on it. Two others were injured. The attackers were
trying to blow up the plant, Hollande said.

One person was arrested and had been identified, he said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.24pm BST

block-time published-time 11.46am BST

Hollande will return home early from the EU summit, an official has confirmed to
AFP.

"He will return early this afternoon and is in constant contact with interior
minister Bernard Cazeneuve and the security services," the official said, adding
that he would make a statement to the press in Brussels.

"The president saw the first images of the attack on the 24-hour news channels
with German chancellor Angela Merkel beside him, who was visibly shocked," an
official added.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.24pm BST

block-time published-time 11.44am BST

Officials in France have suggested that the head had been brought to the scene,
according to reports in the French media.

frltrÉDITION SPÉCIALE | "Des élus avancent l'hypothèse que la personne décapitée
ait pu être amenée sur les lieux" Gérard Fourgeaud, Bleu Isère

- France Info (@franceinfo) June 26, 2015

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.46am BST

block-time published-time 11.39am BST

A live blog about the incident on the website of the local newspaper Le Dauphiné
Libéré has several snippets of information, mainly from unidentified sources,
writes Peter Walker.

The blog says the severed head found at the scene was on a fence near the
factory, and had Arabic writing on it. The blog quotes security sources as
saying "all the signals were on red for a possible attack of this type".

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.49am BST

block-time published-time 11.36am BST

Here is an aerial view of the scene.

Aerial view of scene of suspect Islamist attack near Lyon. Aerial view of scene
of suspect Islamist attack near Lyon.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.48am BST

block-time published-time 11.32am BST

David Cameron has condemned the attack as "appalling" and expressed his
sympathies to Hollande, PA reports.

enltr #Breaking David Cameron has expressed sympathies to Francois Hollande over
the "appalling" terror attack near Grenoble, Downing St said

- Press Association (@PA) June 26, 2015

block-time published-time 11.28am BST

Here is a map of the scene.

Map showing scene of suspected Islamic attack in south-east France. Map showing
scene of attack in south-east France.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.40am BST

block-time published-time 11.26am BST

Hollande is due to make a statement in Brussels. You can follow it here:

Live feed from EU summit in Brussels.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.26am BST

block-time published-time 11.21am BST

President François Hollande is to make an early exit from the EU summit in
Brussels following the attack, according to unconfirmed reports.

enltrReports French President Hollande leaving Brussels to return to Paris after
beheading near Lyon #France

- Jon Williams (@WilliamsJon) June 26, 2015

Meanwhile, interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve, who was already in the area, is
reported to have arrived at the scene.

frltr #Attentat#Isere : les journalistes attendent Bernard Cazeneuve d'ici une
10aine de minutes pour une déclaration pic.twitter.com/JbsrHnJ5Oz

- France Bleu Isère (@bleu_isere) June 26, 2015

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.32am BST

block-time published-time 11.13am BST

Terrorism investigation opened

The French authorities have opened a terrorism investigation following the
attack, AP reports. It said two attackers were involved, citing officials.

Two French officials said the attack began mid-morning when two men crashed a
car into the entrance of a gas factory in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier in
south-eastern France, hitting gas canisters and touching off an explosion.

One of the attackers was arrested, they said. It was unclear what happened to
the other attacker.

In a statement, France's anti-terror prosecutor said an investigation was opened
into the attack, which he said was carried out by "a terrorist group".

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.16am BST

block-time published-time 11.04am BST

Police sources have told AFP that the severed head was covered with Arabic
writing.

The suspect entered the factory and set off several small explosive devices, the
source said.

Police said it was unclear whether the attacker was acting alone, or had
accomplices.

"According to the initial findings of the inquiry, one or several individuals on
board a vehicle drove into the factory. An explosion then took place," said one
of the sources.

"The decapitated body of a person was found nearby the factory but we do not yet
know whether the body was transported to the place or not," added this source,
adding that a "flag with Arabic writing on it was found at the scene".

A man thought to be the person who carried out the attack has been arrested,
according to sources close to the inquiry, who said he was known to the security
services.

French prime minister Manuel Valls ordered increased security measures at all
sensitive sites in the area.

French police secure the entrance of the Air Products factory in
Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, near Lyon. Photograph: Philippe Desmazes/AFP/Getty
Images

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.26pm BST

block-time published-time 11.00am BST

What we know so far

Welcome to live updates on the aftermath of an apparent Islamist attack at a
factory near Lyon in south-east France, where a decapitated body was found.

Here's what we know so far:


     ·    Police say an attacker was carrying an Islamist flag when he killed
          one person and injured several others at an Air Products plant in
          Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, near Lyon.
     ·    The decapitated body of a man was found near the factory.
     ·    Several explosions occurred when a vehicle was driven into the
          factory.
     ·    One man has been arrested at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier.
     ·    France's interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve is travelling to the
          scene.
     ·    The attack comes almost six months after deadly Islamist attacks on
          the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.


block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.27pm BST

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:04 AM GMT

Terrorist attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France stun three continents;
Assaults on hotel, mosque and factory, killing scores of people, constitute grim
low point in global terror onslaught, and a coup for Isis

BYLINE: Kareem Shaheen in Beirut

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 947 words


A volley of terror attacks has struck across three continents, leaving dozens
dead in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, just days after the militant group Islamic
State issued a call to arms for the holy month of Ramadan.

Near-simultaneous attacks targeted tourists at a hotel resort in Tunisia and
Shia worshippers in a mosque in Kuwait, and, reportedly, a delivery company boss
at a factory in France.

The trio of attacks marks a new low point in the global terror onslaught. In
Tunisia, at least 37 people were shot dead in the country's deadliest terrorist
attack. In Kuwait, 25 were killed and more than 200 injured in a suicide bomb -
the first attack in the country since 2005. In France, the victim was
decapitated, the first time that grim method had been used in the country.

Islamic State claimed responsibility for the Kuwait incident, but the
affiliation and inspiration of the other attackers remained unclear. Isis's
chief spokesman, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, called on jihadists earlier this week
to "make the month of Ramadan a calamity on the apostates" by stepping up
attacks and seeking "martyrdom".

All three attacks were launched early on Friday morning.

In Tunisia, the health minister said 37 people were killed and 36 wounded -
mostly tourists - in an attack on the Imperial Marhaba hotel at the beach resort
town of Sousse, about 93 miles south of Tunis.

The gunman approached the resort from the beach, opening fire on sunbathing
tourists, before entering the hotel through the pool area. Many of the victims
were thought to be British, German and Belgian. The gunman was killed. Suspected
accomplices were arrested.

In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at
the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital's centre, which killed 25 people
and wounded 202, according to the emirate's interior ministry.

A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement
circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a "den of polytheism".
Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.

In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in
which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and
dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country's
south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yassin Salhi, was taken into
custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been
under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.

There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but
they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them
inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.

East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and,
in Friday's fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab
group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths,
although precise numbers were unconfirmed.

For Isis, the Kuwait attack - and even the suspicion of its involvement in the
Tunisian and French episodes - is another propaganda coup despite its
battlefield losses in Syria.

The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to
Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They
also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved
at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.

"This weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the
back foot," said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of
Terror. "Information warfare is their greatest asset.

In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at
the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital's centre, which killed 25 people
and wounded 202, according to the emirate's interior ministry.

A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement
circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a "den of polytheism".
Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.

In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in
which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and
dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country's
south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yessim Salim, was taken into
custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been
under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.

There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but
they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them
inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.

East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and,
in Friday's fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab
group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths,
although precise numbers were unconfirmed.

For Isis, the Kuwait attack - and even the suspicion of its involvement in the
Tunisian and French episodes - is another propaganda coup despite its
battlefield losses in Syria.

The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to
Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They
also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved
at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.

"This weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the
back foot," said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of
Terror. "Information warfare is their greatest asset.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 1:30 AM GMT

Dozens killed after terror attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France;
Assaults within hours of each other on a beach resort, mosque and factory leave
over 60 people dead across three continents

BYLINE: Chris Stephen in Sousse, Esther Addley and Julian Borger

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1655 words


Witnesses have described the horror and chaos of the gun attack on sunbathing
holidaymakers in Tunisia that left at least 39 people dead and 36 injured.

At least five British tourists and an Irishwoman died in the attack. Philip
Hammond, the British foreign secretary, said the British death toll was likely
to rise.

The assault in Tunisia took place within hours of two other suspected Islamist
attacks in France and Kuwait. One man was detained near Lyon, south-eastern
France, after the severed head of his former employer was hung from the gates of
a gas factory. French officials said the man had been known to intelligence
services.

In Kuwait City, a suicide bomber attacked a Shia mosque, killing 27 worshippers.
Responsibility for the bombing was later claimed by the Islamic State group.
There is no evidence that the three attacks were coordinated or connected.

The shootings in Tunisia took place at about midday in the resort of Sousse, 93
miles (150km) south of Tunis on the country's east coast. Tourists fled from the
beach and barricaded themselves in their hotel rooms after a gunman opened fire
on the crowded beach before moving into the pool area of the five-star Imperial
Marhaba hotel while firing at tourists, witnesses said.

One suspected gunman was shot dead at the scene, and reports suggested another
suspect was apprehended.

Of the attack in Sousse, Mohamed Ali Aroui, a spokesman for the Tunisian
interior ministry, said: "The perpetrator of the operation was killed, but ...
there could have been more of them. Whether there were other elements with him,
we can't confirm or deny."

An official from the country's health ministry said Britons, Germans, Belgians
and Tunisians were among the dead. "There are still some people we have not
identified yet, but we are working on it," the official said. A foreign ministry
spokesman said that at least 11 Britons, three Belgians and a German were among
the wounded.

The Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel, where the shootings took place, said the
majority of the 565 guests at the hotel were from the UK and central European
countries.

One couple from Kent told the Guardian they had been relaxing on their sunbeds
when they heard what they believed at first to be fireworks, and saw a man
running along the sand with what looked like a machine gun.

"He was shouting something, I don't know what he was shouting," said Glenn
Whitehead, a scaffolder from Swanley, Kent. He shouted at his wife Anita to run,
as bullets flew around them. A person lying next to them fell dead, he said.

The couple heard bullets close to their head, and Mrs Whitehead tripped in the
sand as others ran screaming beside them. Staff from the hotel's spa beckoned
them inside, where about 20 other tourists and staff were waiting.

The couple said they waited for perhaps 20 minutes before they were led outside
by staff, to find bodies lying by the hotel pool and in the foyer, amid pools of
blood.

"I looked around the beach and all I could see were dead people covered in
towels," said Mr Whitehead. There was also a body on the sunbed next to the ones
they had been using. "Where we were lying were a German mother and daughter.
When I got back one of them was covered over, dead."

"There was a lot of people who couldn't get off their sunbeds," his wife said.
"They were elderly."

Witnesses told the Guardian that a British man had been killed while sunbathing
on the beach as his wife packed their bags in their room ahead of their planned
departure on Friday.

Another British woman described how her fiancé was shot three times as he lay
next to her on a sunbed, using his own body to shield her from the bullets.

Sarah Wilson, from Pontypridd in south Wales, said her partner Matthew James was
shot as the gunman opened fire, throwing himself in front of her before urging
her to run for her life. He survived the assault but suffered wounds to his
shoulder, chest and hip.

"We were just on the sunbeds, messing around and having a nice time when we
heard these sounds. The shooting had started and there was a man with a gun
opening fire all around. It is hard to remember just exactly what was going on,"
she said. "I only saw the one man in dark clothing but people were being shot.

"Matthew put himself in front of me then he was hit, he moved and the man shot
him again. Again he tried to move and he was shot again. He was shouting and
blood was pouring out all over. I was screaming and it was chaos as more shots
were coming out.

"We were down on the floor next to the sunbeds to shelter but the shots just
kept on coming. He just told me to go, to look after our kids and that he loved
me."

She fled to the hotel and hid in a cupboard until it was safe to emerge, hunting
for two hours on the beach until she learned James had been taken to hospital,
where he had life-saving surgery.

"I've been to the hospital intensive care and I'm just staying here on a chair
now. His pelvis was shattered by the bullet and he also had a heart attack. But
he is alive. I'm just praying we can get out of here as soon as we can.

"There are bodies everywhere, some covered in blankets and some not. You can't
imagine how bad it is."

Ray Butler, a member of the Irish Dáil, said he had spoken by telephone to the
husband of a man from County Meath whose wife was shot dead on the beach while
he was in the hotel inside. "He is absolutely distraught," Butler said. Charles
Flanagan, the Irish minister of foreign affairs, confirmed that an Irish citizen
had been killed.

David Cameron broke off from the European council meeting in Brussels to offer
his "sympathy and condolences and solidarity" to François Hollande, the French
president, and to Tunisia. "This is a threat that faces all of us ... these
events can happen anywhere," he said.

Cameron pledged that Britain would do all it could to help, and insisted that
the perpetrators were acting not in the name of Islam but "in the name of a
twisted and perverted ideology that we must combat with everything we have".

Speaking after he chaired a meeting of the UK government's Cobra crisis
committee in London, Philip Hammond, the foreign secretary, said: "The situation
on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can't be sure exactly how many
[victims there are] but because of the nature of the composition of the tourist
population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high proportion of
those killed and injured will have been British.

"We have had reports from families of those involved in the incident that allow
us to confirm that at least five Britons have been killed in this incident, but
I should warn that we must expect that there will be more reports of fatalities
as we establish the detail on the ground."

The British Foreign Office said it was urgently working with travel firms in
Tunisia "to gather and confirm information on those affected by this attack",
and had despatched British embassy staff to the site of the atrocity.

Speaking from the scene several hours after the attack, Tunisia's president,
Béji Caïd Essebsi, called for a global strategy to tackle terrorism and insisted
that his country could not be left to face jihadis alone.

The attack - the worst in Tunisia's modern history - is a devastating blow to a
country whose economy relies heavily on western tourism, and comes only three
months after another two gunmen murdered 21 people, including one Briton, in an
assault on the Bardo National Museum, one of the country's leading tourist
attractions. There were no immediate claims of responsibility.

Sousse was also the scene of a failed suicide bombing attempt in October 2013,
when a man was spotted approaching a hotel in a suicide vest and chased on to
the empty beach, where he blew himself up.

The country's tourist economy had taken a major blow in the aftermath of the
2011 "Jasmine" revolution but with new elections in late 2014, was returning to
stability. Tourist receipts in 2015 are already down by 15% on 2014 following
the Bardo attack.

By late afternoon, the corpses, most of them in black body bags, had been
gathered by a bar and pavilion. The Guardian was shown several bodies of elderly
tourists in shorts and bathing suits still lying where they had been killed.
Others had been evacuated by the emergency services, using sunbeds as
stretchers.

Dazed tourists, clearly in shock, ordered beers from the terrace bar still
dressed in their swimsuits. One man from had ordered lobster and was drinking a
beer while cleaners mopped up blood around his feet. He said he had seen someone
killed, but did not want to be named.

Related: Tunisia: murder of holiday-makers in Sousse could kill tourism and hope

Gary Pine, a product manager from Bristol who was staying at the El Mouradi Palm
Marina hotel, said he heard an estimated 20 to 30 shots before tourists ran to
their hotels for cover. "Over to our left, about 100 yards [90 metres] or so
away, we saw what we thought was firecrackers going off," he told Sky News. "But
you could see quite quickly the panic that was starting to ensue from the next
resort along from us.

"Only when you could start hearing bullets whizzing around your ear do you
realise it was something a lot more serious than firecrackers.

"My son was in the sea at the time and of course my wife and myself were
shouting for him to get out of the sea quick and as we ran up the beach, he
said: 'I just saw someone get shot.' As we exited the beach there was some kind
of explosion from the complex next door. So we knew that a situation was
developing, if not had ended."

Elizabeth O'Brien, an Irish woman who was holidaying with her two sons, said she
had heard what she initially thought was gunfire, before realising it was
actually gunfire.

"So I just ran to the sea to my children and grabbed our things and as I was
running towards the hotel, the waiters and the security on the beach started
saying 'run, run, run!' and we just ran to our room."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Dog walkers' terror at rampaging horse attack

BYLINE: James Campbell; j.campbell@hulldailymail.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:PEOPLE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 424  words


THREE elderly dog walkers were left terrified after they were attacked by a
rampaging horse.

The large animal broke loose from the metal chain it was tethered to on Massey
Street playing fields in west Hull.

Coral Wardell, 70, was bitten as she tried to fend off the horse.

She said: "We were out walking on Sunday morning when I saw something happening
up the field.

"I went up to have a look and this horse was just  butting people.

"I met a fellow dog walker, Barbara Taylor, who is 82 years old.

"I told the other people to get into the bushes and trees so the horse couldn't
get them.

"We couldn't get away because the horse followed and then charged us.

"The animal came round the back of me and tried to fend it off with my arm and
it bit me.

"It bruised my arm, but luckily I was wearing a padded jacket so I was OK.

"I managed to hit it on the muzzle which seemed to shock the horse, which then
calmed down and we managed to get out."

Mrs Wardell, of Sefton Street, regularly walks her neighbour's dog.

But she admits she was more concerned for the other women and the dogs than for
herself.

She said: "It was a frightening experience, but the adrenalin kicked in.

"The two other ladies were older than me and I was concerned for them.

"The dogs could also have been trampled. The dog I walk is a west Highland
terrier, which is quite small.

"This was a big horse and could easily have caused serious damage.

"We have seen a few horses tethered around but it was the first time I'd seen
this one.

"It was out to get somebody and was in a nasty mood."

The  encounter has raised questions about the issue of horses tethered in public
places across the city.

Deputy council leader and ward councillor Daren Hale said: "We have clamped down
on this problem in recent years.

"We are not killjoys but have highlighted the potential hazard these horses can
cause.

"What happened to Carol and her friends shows what can happen and why we are
concerned.

"It is lucky no one was more badly injured.

"If there had been children round about, it could have been so much worse."

Cllr Hale has warned horse owners they will be punished.

He said: "We will take action as this is a safety issue.

"Unfortunately, we have to notify the owners first so it can be a drawn-out
process.

"We think we know who the owner is and we are looking at our CCTV footage."

The council's public protection team has been looking into the issue.

Emma Tindall, principal environmental health officer, said: "The horse has since
been tethered and the local area teams have been made aware of the incident."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRIGHTENING: From left, Carol Wardell with Emma, Barbara Taylor with
Archie and Ellen Ellis with Tilly. Picture: Peter Harbour
'NASTY MOOD': The horse, which has now been tethered.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:00 PM GMT

One of the purposes of terrorism is to magnify the terrorist;
Attacks such as last Friday's target not only innocent people, but our sense of
proportion, too

BYLINE: Joan Smith

SECTION: VOICES

LENGTH: 998 words


Over the past few years, the effects of shock have become all too familiar.
There's the initial jolt on hearing the news of another terrorist attack,
followed by a sensation of dread: how many people have lost their lives this
time? The speed with which pictures appear on television and social media means
that we barely have time to prepare ourselves; as details begin to emerge, it's
impossible not to feel a mixture of powerful emotions, including anger, fear and
a kind of helpless sympathy for the victims.

It's happened again over the past couple of days. On Friday morning, police and
camera crews rushed to an industrial site in eastern France where a severed head
had been discovered on a fence. The President, François Hollande, hurried back
from Brussels as other European leaders offered commiserations over the second
terrorist attack in France in six months. This latest in a nightmarish series of
beheadings created a sombre mood, and then news broke of further attacks in
Tunisia and Kuwait. Within hours, pictures began to emerge of towels thrown over
the bodies of holiday-makers on a tourist beach in Sousse.

The shock most people feel in the face of these events is justified; it is what
divides us from the individuals who commit such atrocities. But shock can also
be paralysing, creating a feeling of impotence. I was in a bar in Soho on a
spring evening in 1999 when a nail bomb went off in a nearby pub, and I will
never forget the scene in Old Compton Street shortly afterwards. I had
nightmares and flashbacks for months afterwards; I couldn't settle in an
enclosed space until I had checked the position of all the exits. A fresh
terrorist atrocity brings back some of those feelings, and each time I have to
remind myself of the importance of emotional resilience.

Fear and paralysis are the point of such attacks; they aim to destroy our sense
of proportion, exaggerating the power of organisations such as Islamic State
(Isis) and al-Qaeda. Isis has claimed responsibility for two of Friday's
atrocities but such claims should be treated with caution; it claimed to be
behind the mass murder of tourists at the Bardo museum in Tunis in March this
year but the Tunisian government believes that an al-Qaeda splinter group
actually carried out the attack.

In pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

Islamist terror organisations resemble a franchise that individuals can buy into
at different levels. Some followers are actively recruited in mosques or online
but an overarching ideology of sadistic violence also attracts psychopaths, the
mentally disturbed and people with grudges. The Kouachi brothers, who murdered
11 people inside the Charlie Hebdo offices in Paris in January, were radicalised
through familiar channels, including the influence of several well-known
Islamist clerics. Their route to terrorism was very different from that of Man
Haron Monis, the lone gunman who demanded an IS flag after taking hostages at a
café in Sydney last December. Three people died when the siege ended, including
Monis himself, who had a long criminal record and was suspected of involvement
in the murder of his wife.

Read more: Desperate appeals for information from families of missing
BritsBritish man tweets shooting from inside hotel roomTunisia hotel attack Q&A:
What does this mean for holidaymakers? Majority of 38 victims of beach resort
massacre 'were British'

Empathy is one of the reasons why we are so shaken by the stories of people
caught up in these dreadful events. It was hard to listen to the harrowing
stories of individuals searching for missing family members in Sousse without
imagining ourselves in the same situation. But empathy is exactly what the
jihadists set out to destroy, appealing to those darker currents of human nature
that civilised societies do their best to suppress. Last August, when a video of
the beheading of an American journalist appeared on the internet, I suggested
that the media shouldn't publish stills from it. I have no desire to watch
anyone being tortured but I was also convinced that Isis was engaged in a
calculated exercise of escalating visual shocks, which has since proved to be
the case. As well as beheading videos, it has produced footage of a young
Jordanian pilot being burned alive and, only last week, a slick underwater video
of desperate men drowning in a cage.

Isis will go on producing this kind of horrific propaganda as long as it has an
audience, and among its viewers will be some young men who are as excited by
sadistic violence as they are by religious extremism. The organisation has a
range of offers, in other words, from an eschatological ideology that promises a
shortcut to paradise to the chance to indulge in an orgy of unrestrained
cruelty.

I have no doubt that David Cameron was as shocked as any of us on Friday but it
didn't help that he went on to automatic pilot, describing Islam as a "religion
of peace". The reality is that religions consist of competing wings, and
followers of both Christianity and Islam have on occasion claimed scriptural
authority for murder and torture. Last week, a leading jihadist and spokesman
for Isis, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, released an audiotape threatening a "calamity
for kafirs [non-Muslims]" during Ramadan. That was only three days before
Friday's multiple terrorist attacks.

On this occasion the dead include holidaymakers, worshippers at a Shia mosque
and the manager of a French transport company, who could never have imagined he
would be the target of such barbarism. Previous Islamist attacks this year have
claimed the lives of several cartoonists, a Muslim police officer, Jewish
shoppers, a Danish filmmaker, Nigerian villagers and Egyptian Christians. I
don't think we should ever stop being horrified by such events but we need to be
clear-headed about the nature and scale of the threat. The jihadists hate
everybody but they aren't Nazi Germany. They will fail because all they have to
offer is cruelty and death.

Twitter.com/@polblonde

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 5:00 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel shooting: 15 Britons confirmed dead as Government warns death toll
'may well rise';
Massacre is 'most significant terrorist attack on the British people' since 7/7

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 313 words


The British Foreign Office said at least 15 Britons were among 39 holidaymakers
killed in "the most significant terrorist attack on the British people" since
the 2005 7/7 attacks.

Speaking in the Foreign Office, Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood said this number
"may well rise" as several more people have been seriously injured in the
Tunisia hotel massacre.

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Tunisian authorities have confirmed the nationalities of 10 of the dead so far,
with a Belgian and a German identified alongside the British deaths.

Photographer Carly Lovett was the first Briton to be identified as a victim of
the massacre. The University of Lincolnshire graduate was on holiday with her
boyfriend at the time, who is due to fly back to the UK on Saturday.

Relatives and friends of British people in Tunisia were appealing for
information and help locating their loved ones on social media as the wait for
victims to be be officially named continued.

In pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

Shocking stories from survivors emerged overnight and throughout Saturday.
Travel operators sent flights to repatriate thousands of Britons on holiday in
the country, with the first wave arriving back in the UK this morning.

The gunman, who was cornered and shot dead by police, has been identified as
Seifeddine Rezgui, a young student who was not previously known to Tunisia's
security services.

Read more: Carly Lovett from Lincolnshire named as victimDesperate appeals for
information from families of missing BritsBritish man tweets shooting from
inside hotel roomTunisia hotel attack Q&A: What does this mean for
holidaymakers? Majority of 38 victims of beach resort massacre 'were British'

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 3:05 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Isis-affiliated social media accounts release picture of
gunman they claim committed hotel massacre;
Terror group claimed responsibility for massacre at popular tourist resort

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 335 words


Isis has released a picture of the man it claims is responsible for launching a
bloody terror attack on a Tunisian beach resort that killed at least 38
tourists.

Social media accounts circulated an image of a young man they said opened fire
on a resort in Sousse on Friday, killing "many" British tourists. The man is sat
smiling between two guns in the picture, which has not been independently
verified but bears the typical hallmarks of Isis propaganda.

Isis took responsibility for the shooting on social media and named the attacker
as Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani. An initial investigation by the Tunisian Government
identified the attacker as Seifeddine Rezgui, a 23-year-old student who was not
previously known to Tunisia's security services.

The gunman dressed in shorts and a T-shirt to disguise himself as a tourist
before firing at holidaymakers with a Kalashnikov he had concealed a beach
umbrella.

An eyewitness to the massacre told a local radio station the gunman was laughing
and "joking around, like a normal guy" as he chose who to shoot.

In pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

"Some people, he was saying to them, 'You go away'. He was choosing tourists,
British, French," the witness said. The gunman was shot dead by police.

Harrowing accounts of the shooting surfaced over night, including video footage
showing terrified people fleeing a beach strewn with bodies as gun shots are
fired. One British survivor tweeted the moment the gunman stormed the resort and
shared pictures from inside his blockaded hotel room.

The Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid said Rezgui came from Gaafour, a poor
town in the Siliana region, and had been a student at the University of
Kairouan. He had never left the country and was not known to security services.

Mr Essid offered a cash reward in a news conference on Saturday for information
leading to the arrests of members of terrorist sleeper cells.

Read more: The aftermath of Bloody Friday - live updatesMajority of 38 victims
of beach resort massacre 'were British'

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 2:58 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Majority of 38 victims of beach resort massacre 'were
British';
Travel operators are evacuating British tourists after terror attack claimed by
Isis

BYLINE: Heather Saul

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 578 words


Most of the 38 victims of a terror attack on a beach resort in Tunisia were
British, the country's Prime Minister Habib Essid has told a news conference.

Mr Essid said victims of the shooting rampage at a resort in Sousse were also
from Germany, Belgium and other countries. The British Prime Minister David
Cameron warned that the public needs to be prepared for the fact that "many of
those killed" in the "savage" Tunisian shooting were Britons, as reports
suggested the number of British deaths had risen to eight.

The gunman, who was cornered and shot dead by police, has been identified as
Seifeddine Rezgui, a young student who was not previously known to Tunisia's
security services.

Read more: The aftermath of Bloody Friday - live updatesTunisia hotel attack
Q&A: What does this mean for holidaymakers?

The SITE Intel Group, which monitors the activities of jihadists, said Isis took
responsibility for the attack on social media and named the attacker as Abu
Yahya al-Qayrawani.

In pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

Thomson has scheduled 10 flights to return 2,500 holidaymakers to the UK via
Manchester, Gatwick, East Midlands and Doncaster airports this morning. The
first wave of flights have already begun to arrive at Gatwick airport.

The travel operator said a special assistance team is heading to Tunisia to
assist its customers. Thomas Cook has also arranged for an additional flight to
transport tourists out of the country.

The Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond confirmed the deaths of five Britons and
warned that number would likely rise. Mr Hammond said yesterday: "We have to
assume that a high proportion of those killed and injured will have been
British".

The attacker was wearing a t-shirt and shorts when he began shooting at tourists
on a beach. He then entered a swimming pool area with an AK-47 concealed behind
a parasol and opened fire on holidaymakers.

British tourist Ellie Makin, from Ripon, North Yorkshire, who was on holiday
with her friend, was sat next to the gunman on a sunbed.

She told ITV News: "He was to the right of me because we were on the last sunbed
on the beach. All of a sudden I got up anyway and just happened to look right
and all I saw was a gun and an umbrella being dropped.

"Then he started firing to the right hand side of us. If he had fired to the
left I don't know what would have happened, but we were very lucky."

One hotel worker in Tunisia who was approached by the gunman told The
Independent the man had said he was avoiding Tunisian citizens and only
targeting tourists. Another witness corroborated this account, saying the killer
smiled and told him: "I don't want to kill you, I want to hit tourists."

In another deadly attack on Friday, the decapitated head of a man was found at
the site of gas factory near Lyon following an assault by a single man
reportedly waving an Islamist flag.

The attacks, which are not thought to be linked, come after Isis called on its
supporters to make Ramadan "a month of calamities for the nonbelievers".

Mr Cameron will chair a second emergency Cobra meeting today to determine how
the UK should respond to the massacre. Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said the
Government was ready to help the victims and their families "in any way that we
can".

"The murders in Tunisia and the events in France and Kuwait are a very stark
reminder that we can never take our security for granted," he told BBC
Breakfast.

Additional reporting by agencies

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Independent.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 8:44 AM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: British tourists among at least 37 dead after gunman
storms beach resort following terror strikes in France and Kuwait;
The attack at Sousse followed two earlier murderous assaults

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo, Ian Johnston, Yasmine Ryan

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 949 words


At least 37 people, including British tourists, have been shot dead by a gunman
who stormed a beach resort in Tunisia, strafing holidaymakers as they lay on sun
loungers and sat beside swimming pools.

The attack in Sousse, a popular resort some 80 miles south of the Tunisian
capital, was the third in a series of bloody attacks internationally involving
Islamist fighters on Friday.

In Kuwait a bomb at a Shia mosque killed at least 25 people, and in the French
city of Lyon found a man's decapetated head, wrapped in an Isis flag, place on a
factory fence. The man's body was later found outside the factory.

Read more: Q&A: The key questions after the atrocity in Sousse'Isis' bombs Shia
Muslims at Mosque in KuwaitMan decapitated in France 'by attacker who tried to
blow up factory'

In Sousse, witnesses described how the gunman, armed with a Kalashnikov rifle
which he had hidden inside a beach umbrella and dressed in shorts and a t-shirt
in an apparent effort blend in, made his way from the seafront towards the
five-star Imperial Marhaba and Club Bellevue hotels, killing and injuring scores
of people.

The radical Islamist group Isis has claimed responsibility for the attack via a
social media account.

One hotel worker told The Independent how he had come face-to-face with the
gunman, identified as a 22-year-old Tunisian student, who told him he would
avoid shooting his compatriots and was solely interested in targeting
tourists.Ibrahim El Ghoul, a trainee mechanic who works part time in a nearby
hotel, said the killer had been smiling and told him: "I don't want to kill you,
I want to hit tourists."

Within moments, the beach and at least one hotel lobby were turned into scenes
of carnage. Eye-witnesses described one injured man repeatedly telling his wife
"I love you, I love you," before losing consciousness.

Mr El Ghoul said he came across an elderly British woman who had been shot
through the knee. "She kept screaming  'I want to go home, I want to go home',"
he said.

Graphic footage from the scene showed rescuers desperately attempting to treat
victims clad in their swimsuits while the critically injured, some carried on
sun loungers, were rushed to ambulances.

Images showed the beach strewn with corpses, including the bloodstained bodies
of a middle-aged couple lying on the sand beside a beach umbrella.

There were unconfirmed reports that a second gunman was arrested near the scene
while other reports said one of the attackers had been dressed as a police
officer. In pictures: Tunisia hotel attack

Ellie Makin, a British holidaymaker from Ripon, North Yorkshire, described how
she had been sat to one side of the gunman before he opened fire.

She told ITV News: "He was to [the] right of me. I got up and just happened to
look right and I saw the gun and the umbrella being dropped and then he started
firing to the right. If he had fired to the left, I don't know what would have
happened."

The attack took place during the holy period of Ramadan, when Tunisians tend to
stay away from the beach and the dead were consequently overwhelmingly foreign
holidaymakers.

Britons are feared to feature heavily among the nationalities on the death toll.

Local radio reports and one local guide said the majority of the dead were
British or German, with one report quoting hospital sources saying at least 13
UK nationals had been killed.

Authorities in Dublin confirmed that an Irish woman was among the dead. At least
36 people were injured.

Prime Minister David Cameron flew back from an EU summit in Brussels to chair a
meeting of the emergency COBRA committee.

Read more:<em class="bold" />Cameron: 'These attacks can happen anywhere'Tunisia
hotel attack: The repercussions of a tragedyGunmen kill 'at least 37' in
shooting at seaside town in Tunisia

Speaking before he left Belgium, Mr Cameron said: "We have to combat not only
the terrorism, not only working with the countries that are suffering but
dealing with this poisonous mindset, this death cult that is poisoning young
minds and turning them to this path of mindless violence."

The Tunisia attack will likely be a blow to the economy of a country held to be
one of the few success stories of the Arab Spring, having emerged from its 2010
revolution with a fragile but flourishing democracy.

The beach assault follows an attack in March on tourists visiting the famous
Bardo museum in the capital Tunis, which left 22 people dead and had already
seriously damaged Tunisia's vital tourist industry.

Figures produced by the Tunisian central bank said the numbers visiting the
country had fallen by more than 25 per cent since April and revenues dipped by
26 per cent.

In 2014, Tunisia had 6.1 million tourists, of whom 424,000 were Britons. The
industry represents more than 15 per cent of Tunisia's GDP.

Experts said the attack represented an attempt to destabilise the economy as
part of wider political struggle to halt Tunisia's democratic
transition.Alexander Meleagrou-Hitchins, from the International Centre for the
Study of Radicalization at King's College London, said: "[This] really is going
to lead to a massive reduction in tourism. We have people relaxing on the beach
on their holidays being murdered - that is not going to help the attempts by the
Tunisian tourist industry to get people to come to the country."

It is unclear if the three attacks on Friday were linked but they come just days
after an Isis spokesman posted a message entreating Islamist fighters to turn
the holy month of Ramadan into a "time of calamity for the infidels".

Tunisians are among the nationalities most heavily represented in the ranks of
Isis, which has recently spread its area of operations from Syria to
neighbouring Libya.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBI


           Copyright 2015 Independent Digital News and Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Interpol to support authorities affected by terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 144 words


As Interpol s 24-hour Command and Coordination Centre at its General Secretariat
headquarters is in close contact with the National Central Bureaus in Paris,
Tunis, Kuwait, and Mogadishu to provide any assistance requested, the
international police agency condemned the attacks which left more than 80 dead.

Interpol secretary general Jürgen Stock said the attacks  show the truly global
dimension to current terrorist threats.

Interpol can serve as the global platform to support all of our 190 member
countries  efforts to contain and neutralise these threats.

On behalf of the world police community, Interpol condemns these terrible
attacks in the strongest terms and extends its condolences to the families and
loved ones of the victims.

An attack on an African Union Mission in Somalia military base in southern
Somalia, claimed by Al-Shabab, killed as many as 30.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Tunisia attack: Irish holidaymakers tell of terror as bullets flew

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 1027 words


Late last night IS appeared to claim responsibility for the Tunisian attack in a
statement on the Internet. If the group were behind the attack, Ms Carty is the
first Irish victim of the jihadist group.The gunman was also named on social
media as Saif Al-Din Al-Rizqi, aged 23.Elizabeth O Brien, a nurse from Delgany,
Co Wicklow, was staying at El Mouradi Club Selima hotel next door to Hotel Riu
Imperial Marhaba, where tourists were targeted in the rampage.

By 9pm last night she was on a flight back to Dublin with her two sons,
claiming:  I would not want anyone to experience what we experienced.

Speaking to RTÉ radio, Ms O Brien said of the beginning of the terror attack:  I
heard crackling, like firecrackers.  [media=bbw]2470386[/media]She described
seeing people running and hearing more crackling, before realising it was
gunfire. She ran back to her room with her children, 13-year-old Jordan and
Spencer, 11. A lot of people were just sitting there having a drink, they didn t
see or didn t know what was going on.

As she made her way past two swimming pools, she told people lounging in the
area:  Run, run   they re shooting.

Speaking before she and her sons were boarding the plane last night, she said
she had learned of the death of an Irish woman, named locally as Lorna Carty, in
the attack from people back home.

I am in shock,  she said of Ms Carty s death and the experience overall.
Experiencing what we experienced today I would say to everyone , and I know it s
hard on the people here, but I would say:  Cancel . It s a lovely, friendly
place but I would say  do not come . It s not worth it.

She said no Irish people were staying in her hotel but that when she arrived
last Friday, as many as eight Irish couples were on the same coach transfer to
the hotel strip in Sousse.

Last night a similar number of Irish people were getting another coach transfer,
this time back to the airport. Ms O Brien s travel agent had managed to secure a
flight; she and her sons are due back to her husband and daughter in the early
hours of this morning.

She said the moments spent in their hotel room after the attack began around
noon were terrifying, and that workers in the hotel were crying as guests were
leaving. However, more guests were staying, and some were even having drinks
around the pool.  It was surreal,  she said.

Meanwhile, Corkman Tomás Ó Ríordáin, speaking from Tunisia, described the volley
of shots he heard and the panic as people fled.

Tomás, from Cúil Aodha in Cork but now living in the UK, said he, wife Treasa,
and one of their daughters, Amy, were by the pool at their hotel, El Mouradi
Palm Marina, at the time of the attack. Their hotel is just to the left of the
hotel where the attack happened.

Tomás, who was in Liverpool St in central London during the 7/7 attacks in 2005,
told RTÉ Raidió na Gaeltachta:  We heard something like shots, but we thought it
was a jetski backfiring or something. We heard 10 or 15 shots in very quick
succession. Then everyone started running in from the beach towards the hotel
and we understood that something was happening.

He said others from the hotel were playing volleyball very near to where the
gunman was.

They told us that the attacker came down the street, and directly into the
hotel. He was dressed all in black, and came in firing all about him. We didn t
see anything, but we heard everything. It was all over 3 or 4 minutes after it
started.

We were worried about my two daughters, Claire and Siobhán, who were at the
beach but we just had to wait and see if they came back. When they returned, we
went straight up to the room and closed the windows and the curtains, because
they thought at that time that there was a second attacker with a gun so we didn
t know if there was another attacker on the loose. There wasn t in the end,
there was a second man waiting in a getaway car, and he was arrested.

Mr Ó Ríordáin said he and his family were all safe, and that the hotel had been
secured and they were not permitted to go outside.

Survivors  stories

British tourist Ellie Makin, who was on holiday with her friend Debbie Horsfall,
said the gunman had been next to them on a sunbed.

She told ITV News:  He was to the right of me because we were on the last sun
bed on the beach. All of a sudden I got up anyway and just happened to look
right and all I saw was a gun and an umbrella being dropped.

Then he started firing to the right-hand side of us. If he had fired to the left
I don t know what would have happened, but we were very lucky.

We were on the beach sunbathing, then the next thing we heard gunfire and Ellie
shouted  gun, run , over and over.

We got up and ran as fast as we could to our hotel reception. We just saw panic,
everyone just got up and fled as soon as we realised it was gunfire.

The pair ran back to their hotel where other residents had gathered in the foyer
but were in danger again when the gunman fired shots into the building.

Ms Makin said:  A guy ran up into the hotel and started shooting again and
everyone fled. He was just below us, if we d have walked down the stairs we d
have met him halfway. We got split up. I ran to a room upstairs with somebody
and their kids and we hid.

Another tourist, Olivia Leathley, 24, was with her boyfriend, Mike Jones, in her
room at the hotel when she heard  loud bangs  from the beach. They ran to the
lobby of the hotel where they found a woman whose husband had been shot in the
stomach in front of her.

Ms Leathley said:  All she said was he d been shot and he was there bleeding on
the beach and he was just saying  I love you I love you , and then his eyes
rolled back into his head. But at that point she was dragged away by people who
were trying to keep her safe.

She was thought to be referring to Saera Wilson, who later told the BBC her
fiance Matthew James, 30, used his body as a human shield.

She said he was hit in the shoulder, chest and hip.

Speaking from the hospital where he is being treated, Ms Wilson said:  He took a
bullet for me. I owe him my life. He told me:  I love you babe. But just go.
Tell our children their daddy loves them.  It was the bravest thing I ve ever
known.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Irish woman killed in terror attack in Tunisia

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 586 words


IS has appeared to claim responsibility for the Tunisian attack in a statement
on the Internet.

If the group were behind the attack, Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath, is
the first Irish victim of the jihadist group.

The gunman was also named on social media as Saif Al-Din Al-Rizqi, aged 23.

A mother of two, Ms Carty was murdered in an attack at the Imperial Marhaba
Hotel, where a gunman opened fire with a Kalashnikov rifle he had hidden in a
parasol.

German, Belgian, and UK citizens were also among those killed, with others
fleeing for their lives or barricading themselves in their rooms.

The attack in the north African country, popular with Irish holidaymakers, came
after other attacks were launched in Kuwait, where at least 27 people were
killed in an explosion at a mosque, and in France, where a man s decapitated
body was found following an attempt to blow up a US-owned gas factory.

The attack in Tunisia centred on the beachside hotel in Sousse on the eastern
coast. Ms Carty, a nurse at the Bedford Medical Centre in Navan, was on holiday
at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel with husband Declan.

They had been given the holiday as a present by Declan s brother after Mr Carty
had recently undergone heart surgery.

Ms Carty, in her fifties, was mother to Meath senior footballer Simon Carty.

Her death sparked an outpouring of grief in Meath, particularly in GAA circles.
She was heavily involved in Dunderry GAA club, while her brother, Jim, is
chairman of Kilmessan Hurling Club. Some hurling and football matches in the
county have already been cancelled this weekend as a mark of respect.

Charlie Flanagan, the foreign affairs minister, condemned  unreservedly  the
terrorist attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait, and France.[media=bbw]2470404[/media]

He could not rule out the possibility that other Irish holidaymakers may have
been caught up in the attack, and said:  I would like to offer my heartfelt
condolences to the family and loved ones of the deceased.

Tánaiste Joan Burton expressed revulsion at what she said was a  barbaric act ,
while Taoiseach Enda Kenny also condemned the attacks.

A friend of the family, Fine Gael TD Ray Butler, was clearly emotional as he
spoke on RTÉ about how the couple had simply gone on holiday, never expecting
such a devastating event to unfold.

I got the phone call at 2.30pm from a very close friend of the family,  he said.
This was the hardest phone call I ve ever taken. My heart goes out to the family
who are enduring unthinkable grief.

It is not known how many Irish people were in the vicinity of the Sousse area
where the attack took place, but one holidaymaker, Wicklow woman Elizabeth O
Brien, said when she arrived last Friday as many as eight couples shared the
same coach transfer as her.

Last night, she and her two sons were boarding a plane to return home, with Ms O
Brien stating:  It s a lovely, friendly place but I would say  do not come . It
s not worth it.

While many holidaymakers were seeking to leave Tunisia in the aftermath of the
attack, others continued with their holiday plans. One scheduled flight operated
by Sunway was due to depart from Ireland for Tunis at 3.30pm yesterday but
delayed take-off as news of the attack spread.

It eventually departed at 6.30pm   112 guests chose to continue with their
holiday plans, while 59 booked on board cancelled their flight and were offered
a full refund.

No group had claimed responsibility for the attack in Tunisia last night.
Islamic State did claim responsibility for the bomb attack in Kuwait.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Tunisia attack: Revulsion over terror murder of tourists

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 980 words


Taoiseach Enda Kenny, Tánaiste Joan Burton, Foreign Affairs Minister Charlie
Flanagan, and Fianna Fáil and Sinn Féin TDs hit out at the manner of the deaths
after learning Co Meath nurse Lorna Carty was among the dead.

Speaking in Brussels before Ms Carty s death in the Tunisian resort town of
Sousse was known, Mr Kenny said what happened must be condemned in the strongest
way possible.

Tánaiste and Labour leader Joan Burton expressed her  revulsion  at the
barbaric act , adding that her  first thoughts are with the family of the Irish
woman killed, and the families of all the victims .

Fianna Fáil and Sinn Féin condemned the murders, saying they were appalled at
the events and that their thoughts were with Ms Carty s family, who learned of
what happened just after 2.30pm yesterday.

A close friend of the family, Fine Gael TD Ray Butler, fought back tears on RTÉ
s Six One News to explain the nurse had travelled with her husband Declan to
Tunisia after being given the tickets by a relative to help Declan in his
recovery from recent heart surgery.

I got the phonecall at 2.30pm from a very close friend of the family,  said Mr
Butler.  This was the hardest phonecall I ve ever taken. My heart goes out to
the family who are enduring unthinkable grief.

It was initially believed that no Irish people were injured in the attack
understood to have been perpetrated by a man posing as a holidaymaker   with
reports after the attacks at 12pm yesterday suggesting British, Belgian, and
German people had died.

However, by 3pm, the Government had become aware of Ms Carty s death, before its
consular services contacted her family to help break the news.

The first public confirmation that an Irish person was among the dead came just
after 5pm, when Foreign Affairs Minister Charlie Flanagan told journalists:
There has been an Irish citizen involved, a fatality.

The minister had been due to speak to reporters before a World Bank meeting at
3.45pm. He delayed the move as news filtered through   saying he wanted to
condemn unreservedly the horrific terrorist attacks  in Tunisia, France and
Kuwait.

He said he  cannot exclude the possibility of further Irish involvement , but
stressed the Government is doing all it can to comfort Ms Carty s family and
help other Irish citizens potentially still in harm s way return home.

Our people in the department have been in contact with the family, the
relatives. I cannot exclude the possibility of further Irish involvement, but we
are actively engaged in seeking further information.

Immediately following the atrocity our ambassador in Madrid [the nearest Irish
embassy] left for Tunisia.

Our priority at the moment is with those directly involved, they are remaining
indoor2s in the hotel complex. We are working with the families of the bereaved.
Our priority will be the safe return of Irish citizens at the earliest
opportunity.

Our travel advice to anybody thinking in terms of travelling to Tunisia is to
exercise extreme caution. [media=bbw]2470404[/media]

Responding to questions about the tragedy, Mr Flanagan again stressed that
anyone thinking of travelling to Tunisia should use  extreme caution  and that
he and his officials are working to bring people home.

However, he stopped short of advising against travelling to the north African
country, whose economy and therefore stability is dependent on a thriving
tourist industry.

The Foreign Affairs Minister confirmed  a number of Irish families  are also in
the  immediate vicinity of the hotel and the resort  where the murders occurred,
and that officials are now liaising with tour operators to locate every citizen.

He said the situation in the area  was one of carnage  and urged anyone with
concerns to contact the department s helpline: 01 418 0200.

Yesterday s attack is the second time this year that terrorists have murdered
innocent people in Tunisia, with IS claiming responsibility for an assault on a
museum in March.

As of last night, no group had claimed responsibility for yesterday s attack.

Choice of Tunisia as a holiday destination now at risk

Tunisia has long been a popular destination for Irish holidaymakers. That may
now change in light of the latest attack, which has left dozens dead and
injured.

The Arab Spring began in Tunisia in December 2010 with the self-immolation of a
man protesting about police corruption, leading to the Jasmine Revolution.

Within weeks the president had fled the country, but while other Arab nations
witnessed an upsurge in violence in the aftermath of various uprisings, Tunisia
appeared to remain calm. A state of emergency, first put in place in 2011, was
lifted in March 2014.

Tourism continued to play a key role in its economic outlook. Last year the
sector accounted for 15.2% of the country s GDP, directly supporting 230,500
jobs.

Recent figures indicate that two years ago Tunisia welcomed 6.2m tourists. That
is a huge number considering the population of the country is just short of 11m.

It is particularly popular with French, German, and Italian visitors. By
contrast, an estimated 3,000 Tunisians are believed to have joined IS in the
past two years, but the country remained relatively free of serious violence
until earlier this year, when an attack at the Bardo Museum in the
European-style city of Tunis left two dozen people dead and others injured.

As well as high-class resorts, package deals and being a haven for beach
holidays, Tunisia also has a number of important heritage sites, not least the
ancient ruins of Carthage.

Other destinations popular with visitors are the Muslim and Jewish quarters of
Jerba, and the coastal resorts outside of Monastir.

As for the hotel which was at the epicentre of the attack, the Hotel Riu
Imperial Marhaba is a five-star beachfront hotel with views of Port El Kantaoui,
which has the ancient Roman coliseum of El Djem and the holy city of Kairouan
nearby.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:54 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attacks: Foreign Office confirms 15 Britons were killed in most
significant attack since 2005 bombings;
Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood warned the death toll was likely to rise

BYLINE: By Rob Williams

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1089 words


The Foreign Office today confirmed that fifteen Britons were among those killed
in the attack on a Tunisian beach resort.

However, Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood warned the death toll was likely to
rise.

Confirming the figure, Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood added that the Sousse
atrocity was "the most significant terrorist attack on British people" since
July 7, 2005, when 52 people were killed.

Speaking at the Foreign Office, Mr Ellwood said: "Sadly, I can confirm that at
least 15 British nationals were killed in yesterday's atrocity but I should
stress that the number may well rise as several more have been seriously injured
in this horrific attack."

He added: "This is the most significant terrorist attack on British people since
7/7 and highlights the ongoing threat of Isil."

It's not yet clear whether or not any of those that were killed in the attack
were from Manchester. Yesterday a Manchester family revealed how they had
cheated death after gunmen opened fire 100 yards from where they had been
sunbathing minutes earlier.

James Edmunds, 45, and his family's dream holiday turned into a 'nightmare' as
they lay barricaded in their hotel after narrowly avoiding today's terrorist
attack.

James, his wife Sherilyn, and daughters Hollie, 22, and Fern, 21, all from
Heywood, decided to take an early lunch in the town after being on a beach a
short distance from where the horror began.

Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui then struck targeting Western
tourists as he terrorised the popular resort.

One of the British victims was named as Adrian Evans, who worked for Sandwell
Council in the West Midlands as a manager in the gas services department.

The council leader Darren Cooper said: "We are very sad to hear that one of our
employees has been killed in the terrorist attack in Tunisia.

"Adrian Evans was a very popular and long-serving employee, who was manager of
our Gas Services Team.

"We are absolutely devastated for Adrian's family, friends and colleagues and
our thoughts are with them and all those affected by this tragedy."

Joel Richards, reported to be Mr Evans's nephew, was also named as a victim.

A statement from Birmingham County FA said: "Joel was an active member of the
Birmingham County FA Youth Council.

"A young, talented referee with the world at his feet, he was highly thought of
and will be sadly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and
friends at this tragic time."

He is thought to have been a student at the University of Worcester.

Birmingham -based Gaelic football club James Connollys GFC also paid tribute to
Mr Richards, tweeting: "James Connollys GFC is devastated to learn of the death
of one of our players, Joel Richards, during the horrific attack in Tunisia.

"Joel was an exceptionally talented footballer, who represented both club and
county with conviction on numerous occasions.

"Details of his funeral arrangements will follow; our thoughts are with his
family and friends at this tragic time."

An Irish mother of two, Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath, has already been
confirmed as among the dead.

Tunisia hotel attack

Another of those killed is reported to be 24-year-old fashion blogger Carly
Lovett from Gainsborough, Lincolnshire.

Lincolnshire Police have appointed a family liaison officer to support Ms
Lovett's family, although she is yet to be officially named as a victim by the
Foreign Office.

Police officers were positioned outside her address and reporters have been
asked to stay away. Her fiance was understood to be travelling back home today.

Friends and fellow bloggers paid emotional tributes to the former University of
Lincoln student on social media.

The university's School of Film and Media tweeted: "Saddened to hear news
reports of Carly Lovett in Tunisia - Graduate of our University 2013."

British police have flown to the beach resort to help identify victims and
consular teams are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected.

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

He said they are "looking at the travel advice" but said they are pleased with
the efforts the Tunisians have put in place to increase security in the areas of
concern.

Mr Ellwood said he had spent much of today on the phone with victims and
families caught up in the "appalling attack".

The July 7 attacks were the worst-ever terrorist outrage on British soil.

The so-called Islamic State (also referred to as Isil) has claimed it is behind
the attacks and has reportedly identified Rezgui by his jihadi pseudonym Abu
Yahya al-Qayrawani.

The 23-year-old Tunisian aviation student disguised himself as a tourist and
began firing at holidaymakers on a beach using the gun he had hidden in a beach
umbrella.

Some 39 other people were also wounded in the attack, including 21 who have
already left hospital. Of the wounded, 25 were British.

Scotland Yard today said police travelled to Tunisia to help investigate the
killings and officers are also interviewing tourists returning at British
airports.

While Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, national policing lead for
counter-terrorism added that it was "fairly clear" the location of the Tunisian
attack was chosen because of the number of Westerners present in the area, he
added.

The worst such attack in Tunisia's history came on the same day a man was found
decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory
and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed, killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked, they come after IS
called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of calamities for the
non-believers".

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists including a Briton.

A suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in Sousse in
October 2013, while 21 people lost their lives in an attack in the country
earlier this year.

Meanwhile, the Irish government said there were "grave concerns" about two more
Irish citizens who were caught up in the shooting.

Foreign affairs minister Charlie Flanagan said authorities are in contact with
the families of the two citizens who are still missing.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 10:38 PM GMT

Suspect arrested over terror attack on French gas factory 'took a selfie with
victim's severed head before being detained by police'

BYLINE: ELAINE O'FLYNN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2385 words



     ·    Source revealed suspect Yassin Salhi sent a picture of himself posing
          with the victim's severed head on WhatsApp
     ·    Herve Cornara - boss of the ATC-colicom in Chassieu - has been
          identified as the man beheaded in France on Friday
     ·    Shocking attack took place at the headquarters of American-owned Air
          Products close to Lyon in southern France
     ·    P olice seized woman at home of 'ISIS fanatic' who beheaded boss and
          scrawled on his severed head  in Arabic
     ·    Alleged killer has been named as father of three Yassin Salhi, 35,
          with the victim believed to be his employer
     ·    The company both men worked for is understood to have regularly
          delivered to the Air Products factory


The ISIS fanatic accused of decapitating a French factory boss took a selfie
with the severed head, it was revealed today.

A source close to the investigation said the photograph of Herve Cornara's head
with suspect Yassin Salhi, 35, was sent via WhatsApp to a Canadian mobile phone
number.

Investigators said it was not possible to fix the location of Salhi's contact,
but it has been reported the recipient of the message was in Syria where ISIS
has seized swaths of territory.

Conara's head was found pinned to the gates at the American-owned Air Products
factory in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, surrounded by two Islamist flags, on Friday.

The victim was the boss at ATC-colicom in Chassieu - near the scene of
yesterday's horrific execution - and ran his own business offering a delivery
service. He had been strangled before he was decapitated.

On Saturday hundreds of people turned out in the region to honour Conara and
denounce the violence, while dozens turned out for a minute of silence in
Saint-Quentin-Fallavier.

Salhi, his wife and his sister remain in custody in Lyon in connection with his
beheading, and for setting off the explosion at the Air Products gas factory in
south-eastern France.

A spokeswoman for the Paris prosecutor's office said Salhi is beginning to
cooperate with police investigators, after initially refusing to talk.

A fourth suspect initially arrested on Friday has been released without charged.



Salhi was known to factory personnel because he came in regularly for
deliveries, Paris Prosecutor Francois Molins said.

Police swooped on the apartment building in Saint-Priest, in the suburbs of the
city of Lyon, just hours after the 35-year-old delivery driver was arrested on
suspicion of writing Arabic slogans on his employer's severed head and hanging
it on a fence outside the nearby headquarters of Air Products.

Salhi is accused of going on to crash his Ford Fusion delivery van through the
factory's gates before ramming it into several large gas cannisters left in the
car park - apparently in the hope they would explode and destroy the entire
factory complex.

The explosions were relatively small, however, leaving just two factory workers
with non life-threatening injuries.

The murdered man - who French media say owned the delivery company Salhi worked
for - is believed to have been killed elsewhere before his corpse was dumped at
the Air Products factory site in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier and his head impaled on
a fence 30 feet away surrounded by homemade Islamist flags.

Speaking before the raid on her home, Salhi's wife described her husband as a
'normal Muslim' who left for work as usual at 7am this morning. 'My heart
stopped when I heard he was a suspect....I expected him this afternoon,' the
unnamed woman told French radio station Europe 1.

Salhi - who is understood to have been known to security services since at least
2006 - reportedly told arresting officers that he is a member of the Islamic
State terror group. He is believed not to have a criminal record and an
investigation into his 'possible radicalisation' was dropped in 2008.

Scroll down for video

French President Francois Hollande, speaking in Brussels, said the attack began
when a car crashed through the gate of the factory and ploughed into gas
canisters, setting off an explosion.

'No doubt about the intention - to cause an explosion,' Mr Hollande said,
calling the attack 'of a terrorist nature'.

His office said on Saturday that the President will convene a meeting to discuss
the violent attack on Tuesday.

The victim's head was found staked on a gate at the factory's entrance, in what
appeared to be an echo of the Islamic State group's practice of beheading
prisoners and displaying their heads for all to see.

An official said two flags - one white and one black, both with Arabic
inscriptions - were found nearby. Images from the scene suggest the banners may
have been homemade and written using paint.

At a press conference on Friday, Cazeneuve named the arrested man as Yassin
Salhi.

'He was investigated in 2006 for radicalisation, but [the probe] was not renewed
in 2008. He had no criminal record,' he added. 'This individual has links with
the Salafist movement, but had not been identified as having participated in
activities of a terrorist nature.'

A local newspaper is reporting that the unnamed dead man was Salhi's boss and
that their company regularly delivered to Air Products.

Before this afternoon's raids at her home, an unnamed woman claiming to be Salhi
wife has since spoke to the Europe1 radio station.

'I don't know what happened, he left to go to work as normal,' she said.

She said he was a delivery driver who left, as normal at 7am. 'My heart stopped
when I heard he was a suspect,' she added. 'He went to work this morning at 7am.
He does deliveries. He did not return between noon and two, I expected him this
afternoon.

'My sister said turn on the television. She was crying... I know my husband. We
have a normal family life. He goes to work, he comes back...We are normal
Muslims. We do Ramadan. We have three children and a normal family life.'

Anti-terror police subsequently took the woman and her three children out of the
apartment block in Saint Priest where she has been living with Salhi for the
past six months.

France's prime minister later branded the attack 'Islamist terrorism,'
announcing he was cutting short a visit to South America to deal with the
crisis.

'Islamist terrorism has hit France again,' Manuel Valls told a press conference
in Colombia's capital Bogota, adding that he would take part by telephone in an
emergency meeting called by President Francois Hollande, then rush back to
France.

Within an hour of the attack, French President Francois Hollande was to return
home early from an EU summit.

Speaking at a press conference in Brussels shortly afterwards, Hollande said a
man who launched a 'terrorist' assault on a gas factory Friday has been
identified and that there may have been a second attacker. Local media reported
that a second terrorist has since been arrested.

'This attack was in a vehicle driven by one person, perhaps accompanied by
another,' Hollande added. 'The individual suspected of committing this attack
has been arrested and identified.'

Local newspaper Dauphine Libere is reporting that a second person has now been
arrested, believed to be the man who drove the Ford Fusion 'preview' car around
the factory this morning before the attack.

Investigators are working to establish the full details of the attack but is
widely thought that the explosions were intended to have a far bigger impact
than causing several dozen injuries, and may have been intended to blow up the
entire Air Products headquarters.

Salhi had a 'link' to Salafist movement, Cazeneuve said but was not implicated
in any terrorist activities. The Salafi movement is a group within Sunni Islam,
which is often associated with literalist approaches to Islam.

He said a 'fiche S' was opened on the attacker in 2006 for radicalisation. A
'fiche S' for which the S stands for 'Sûreté d'etat' basically means he had been
identified as a possible danger and should be watched.

The file was not renewed in 2008, however, meaning authorities no longer
considered him a risk. Cazeneuve also said the man named as Yassin Sali had no
criminal record. He added that the suspect is believed to be father of three
children.

He was known for links to extremism but not identified as a high risk who would
carry out an attack, says Cazeneuve.

ATTACK AT AIR PRODUCTS HEADQUARTERS COMES JUST FIVE MONTHS AFTER CHARLIE HEBDO
MASSACRE

The attack comes five months after three Islamist gunmen killed 17 people in
coordinated terror strikes across Paris.

The victims, including journalists and police, were killed in three days of
violence, including a mass shooting at the weekly magazine Charlie Hebdo, known
for its satirical attacks on Islam and other religions.

The attackers, two French-born brothers of Algerian origin, singled out the
magazine for its publication of cartoons depicting and ridiculing the Prophet
Mohammad.

The bloodshed ended on January 9 with a hostage-taking at a Jewish supermarket
in which four hostages and the gunman were killed. The terror chief behind the
murders was killed in a drone attack in Yemen earlier this month.

Nasser al-Wuhayshi was once a loyal deputy to Osama Bin Laden, the terrorist
mastermind behind the 9/11 attacks on the USA in 2001.

Last month, the senior AQAP commander who admitted responsibility for the Hebdo
attacks was also blasted to death by a drone.

Nasr al-Ansi caused outage in January when he gloated over the murders by
France-born Islamists.

Two of them - brothers Said and Cherif Koachi - both said they were working for
AQAP.

The Kouachi brothers and a third terrorist, Amedy Coulibaly, were themselves
killed by police following sieges which also saw four Jewish people shot dead in
a Kosher supermarket in eastern Paris.

Al-Ansi, who was also close to the late terror chief Osama Bin Laden, had called
for more attacks in countries including Britain, America and France saying
'lone-wolf' attacks were 'better and more harmful'.

The president of Air Products - an American owned company that is understood to
have recently signed a large contract with Saudi Arabia - is an Iranian Shia
Muslim named Seifi Ghasemi.

Iran is known to support the regime of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria - the
sworn enemy of the Islamic State terror group.

There remains a great deal of confusion over the exact sequence of events at the
factory., which belongs to Air Products - a US chemical company based in
Allentown, Pennsylvania.

The company would not confirm whether any employees were injured or killed.

'Our priority at this stage is to take care of our employees, who have been
evacuated from the site and all accounted for,' the company said in a statement.

'The site is secure. Our crisis and emergency response teams have been activated
and are working closely with all relevant authorities.'

The company added that all its employees are accounted for after an attack on a
factory in southwestern France. It has not confirmed whether its staff were
among the two people reported injured and one dead.

It released a statement that all employees have been evacuated from the site,
which is secure.

It says 'our crisis and emergency response teams have been activated and are
working closely with all relevant authorities.'

French Prime Minister Manuel Valls ordered heightened security measures Friday
at 'sensitive sites' near the gas factory that was attacked in eastern France.

Valls, who is on an official trip to South America, asked Cazeneuve to head to
Saint-Quentin Fallavier, the site of the attack, the premier's entourage said.

Mr Valls said 1,573 French nationals or people resident in France were 'listed
as being implicated in terrorist networks.' Of these, 442 were believed to be
fighting in Syria,  where 97 have died.

PROFILE: SEIFI GHASEMI - THE IRAN-BORN PRESIDENT OF AMERICAN-OWNED AIR PRODUCTS

 Born in Iran in 1944 and a US citizen since 1982, Ghasemi attended the Abadan
Institute of Technology where he obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in
General Engineering. He then moved to the United States where he received his
Masters degree from Stanford University in California.

After conducting research in Fluidics at Stanford, he was employed by the Lear
Motor Company before a three year spell as assistant professor at the University
in Tehran. In 1974 Ghasemi joined the newly formed National Iranian Steel
Industries Company, and three years later became executive director.

In 1979, he emigrated to the United States where he joined BOC's Carbon
Division. He moved to its US gases business in 1987, becoming its president in
1993. In June of this year, Ghasemi added to this role world-wide responsibility
for the Group's Process Plants business.

Ghasemi is Vice Chairman of the Compressed Gases Association and on the Board of
Directors of the National Petroleum Refiners Association. He has one son,
Robert, and lives in Gladstone, N.J., with his wife Ellen. His outside interests
include running, skiing and opera.

The BOC Group, the parent company of BOC Gases, is a world leader in industrial
gases, health care, vacuum technologies and distribution services. The BOC Group
operates in more than 60 countries with sales last year of $5.9 billion.

The Mayor of Bordeaux, Alain Juppé, took to Twitter to condemn the attacks.

'The terrorist threat is at a maximum', he wrote, adding that France 'must make
every effort to protect its citizens'.

British Prime Minister David Cameron expressed his sympathies over the incident
to French President Francois Hollande.

The two leaders spoke in Brussels, where they are attending a European Council
summit.

A Downing Street spokeswoman said: 'He expressed his sympathies for what looks
like an appalling incident.

'Details are still emerging, so we wait to see those. But it clearly looks an
extremely concerning situation and our thoughts are with all those affected by
it.'

The Government's emergency Cobra committee will meet this afternoon following
terror attacks in France and Tunisia, David Cameron said as he offered 'our
solidarity in fighting this evil of terrorism'.

France has been on its highest security alert ever since the Paris attacks and
according to the Dauphiné Libéré, an internal security services source said that
'all the signals in recent weeks have been pointing to red for an attack of this
nature occurring in the national territory.'

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 7:20 PM GMT

Thousands of mourners brave 45C temperatures as victims of Kuwaiti mosque terror
attack are laid to rest

BYLINE: DARREN BOYLE and JENNIFER SMITH FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 862 words



     ·    Bodies of some of the 27 killed were draped in Kuwaiti flag on
          Saturday
     ·    A day of mourning has been declared in the Gulf state following attack
     ·    Security sources claim several arrests have been made following
          bombing
     ·    Local media suggests three people connected with bomber were arrested


Thousands of Kuwaitis braved scorching summer heat on Saturday to attend the
funerals of 18 out of 26 victims of a Shiite mosque bombing claimed by the
Islamic State group.

The bodies of the remaining eight victims will be flown late Saturday to Iraq's
Shiite holy city of Najaf for burial there, State Minister for Cabinet Affairs
Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah Al-Sabah said.

Drapped in Kuwaiti flags, the bodies were borne by mourners who chanted
religious slogans.

Mourners turned out in large numbers despite the Ramadan daylight fast and as
temperatures hit 45 degrees Celsius.

Scroll down for video

Parliament speaker Marzouk al-Ghanem told reporters that ISIS would not succeed.
He said: 'This crowd is the proof that the objectives of the criminal act have
failed.

The mourners, who included women clad in black Islamic dress, carried Kuwaiti
flags in addition to black and green banners bearing religious slogans.

The interior ministry said in a statement early Saturday that 26 people and the
suicide bomber were killed and 227 wounded in one of the country's worst
bombings and its first ever on a mosque.

The health ministry said that 40 wounded are still in hospital and the rest have
been discharged.

Two of the dead were Iranian, the Shiite-dominated Islamic republic's foreign
ministry said.

Friday's attack targeted Al-Imam Al-Sadeq mosque in Kuwait City during Friday
noon prayers.

Condolences were being accepted for three days from Saturday at the Grand
Mosque, the largest place of worship for Sunni Muslims, in a show of solidarity.

The interior ministry said it has arrested the owner of the car the bomber used
to go to the mosque, and that the driver was now being sought.

The vehicle's owner gave it to someone who drove the suicide bomber to the
mosque, a ministry statement said.

The ministry said an unspecified number of suspects were held for questioning in
connection with the attack that shook the small Gulf state.

No details were provided.

The government briefed MPs in a joint meeting about measures it has taken after
the bombing, Sheikh Mohammad told reporters.

Kuwait's emir, the government, parliament and political groups and clerics have
all said the attack aimed to stir up sectarian strife in the emirate.

Sunni religious and political groups were quick to condemn the attack which was
claimed by ISIS, a radical Sunni group which considers Shiites to be heretics.

Shiites form a third of Kuwait's 1.3 million native population.

The cabinet announced after an emergency meeting on Friday that all security
agencies and police had been placed on alert to confront what it called 'black
terror'.

Justice and Islamic Affairs Minister Yacoub al-Sane said additional security
measures will be taken around mosques and places of worship.

Kuwait declared Saturday to be a day of mourning.

The emir, Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah, who visited the site immediately after
the bombing, said the 'criminal attack is a desperate and evil attempt targeting
Kuwait's national unity'.

Countries and organisations including the United Nations and the United States
deplored the bombing.

Eight Islamist, liberal and Shiite political groups condemned the attack in a
joint statement and called on the government to confront extremists.

National oil conglomerate Kuwait Petroleum Corp. (KPC) said on Saturday it had
raised security at oil facilities to maximum level.

Oil is Kuwait's main source of income, accounting for around 90 per cent of
public revenues.

The OPEC member says it sits on around 10 percent of global reserves and pumps
around 2.8 million barrels of oil per day.

Today a Kuwaiti security source said a number of people had been arrested in
connection with the bombing, the worst in the state for years.

'Numerous arrests of people suspected of having ties with the suicide bomber
have been made,' they told Reuters on Saturday. Local newspaper al-Qabas
reported the number as three.

Officials previously claimed the attack had been intended to divide Sunni and
Shi'ite Muslims across the state, with ISIS a radical strand of Sunni Islam.

Interior Minister Sheikh Mohammed al Khaled al Sabah has described the
interference as an 'evil hand in our homeland's security.'

Scores of survivors wandered the streets yesterday after the blast, their robes
drenched in the blood of those killed and injured in the attack.

Witnesses described the young attacker as having been stood among around 2,000
worshippers before detonating the bomb.

Elsewhere on Friday two Tunisian gunmen slaughtered dozens of holidaymakers on a
beach in Sousse.

The men opened fire on tourists in a horrifying attack which killed 15 Britons.

In France a man was decapitated and his head covered in Arabic inscriptions
before being impaled on a spike near Grenoble.

Speculation has arisen over whether the three incidents were signs of a lengthy
spate of violence launched by ISIS during the month of Ramadan.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 5:36 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel terror attacks: Two more mercy flights bring back a total of 1,244
holidaymakers home from North Africa;
Families have told the M.E.N of their desperation to escape the country after 39
people were killed

BYLINE: By Chris Slater

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 550 words


More flights ferrying stricken holidaymakers back to Manchester from Tunisia
have begun landing this afternoon.

Jet2 have chartered three flights to bring back a total of 1,244 passengers
currently holidaying with them in the North African country.

Two of those will land at Manchester Airport and the third at Leeds Bradford
Airports with the first touching down at around 3pm.

A fourth plane is said to be on standby if required.

Families have told the M.E.N of their desperation to escape the country after 39
people were killed, many believed to be British tourists, were killed when a
gunman opened fire on a busy beach in the resort of Sousse.

The airline says those people in the resorts of Sousse, Skanes and Port el
Kantaoui will be returned first with coaches being laid on to take people to the
airport in Enfidha with travellers to elsewhere in the country being repatriated
later. IN PICTURES: Tunisia hotel attack

Tunisia hotel attack

Steve Heapy, CEO of Jet2.com and Jet2holidays said: "Our absolute priority is to
ensure the safe passage home of those customers wishing to travel as soon as
possible.

"Aircraft are arriving now in Tunisia and will depart this evening.

"Passengers can rest assured that, as required, we will provide onward transport
from Leeds Bradford and Manchester Airports."

Earlier around two and a half thousand Thomson and First Choice customers were
brought back home with six relief flights arriving into Manchester throughout
the early hours.

This evening, Minister for the Middle East and North Africa Tobias Ellwood gave
an update on the situation in Tunisia. Mr Ellwood said: "Sadly I can confirm
that at least 15 British nationals were killed in yesterday's atrocity. But I
should stress that the number may well rise as several more have been seriously
injured in this horrific attack.

"The Foreign Office is doing everything possible. Our Crisis Centre has been
working round the clock since the attack, and we have mobilised our Rapid
Deployment Team designed to provide urgent UK assistance during events such as
this. A UK police team has also been deployed to assist with the process of
identification of victims. FCO staff are on the ground already, and are in
hospitals and hotels looking after British nationals in conjunction with tour
operators and airlines. And several flights have left today to bring people
home, and more are planned. A further team of consular staff and experts are
arriving today to further strengthen our support.

"I spent much of the day on the phone with relatives of the victims and injured
British nationals who have been caught up in this appalling attack. I offer my
deepest sympathy.

"We are doing everything we can to co-ordinate and co-operate with other
countries and to share any information that we have with them. I have spoken
with the Tunisian Interior Minister and the British Ambassador and we will do
all we can to help.

"This is the most significant attack on British people since 7/7, and highlights
the ongoing threat from ISIL. This act of evil and brutality demonstrates why we
must confront this kind of extremism, wherever it happens, at home or abroad."
MORE: Manchester family cheated death in Tunisia after narrowly avoiding
terrorist attack MORE: Manchester chef tells how she ran for her life from
gunmen

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:56 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack is warning flag to countries like Britain whose citizens
have fled there to join ISIS;
But Home Office advisor Dr Sally Leivesley says we can learn from the horrific
scenes on the beach

BYLINE: By Sally Leivesley

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 380 words


The attack on Tunisia should be a warning flag for more than 90 other countries
that have contributed young recruits to "Daesh" - the name given to ISIS within
the region.

The Sousse massacre should provide early caution to the rest of the world
because of the estimated huge number of young recruits who have gone from there
to join ISIS.

The numbers are thought to be the highest in the world, hence attacks like
Friday's have started on Tunisian shores.

But this pattern will follow over a period of time in other countries, who have
lost lesser numbers of jihadists to the holy war, including Britain.

We must expect the return to British shores of well-trained fighters able to
execute much more dangerous attacks even than 7/7.

Tunisia terror attack: Horrific scenes of people fleeing from gunman on beach

The young ISIS recruits from Tunisia are showing the rest of the world what to
expect when a stream of fighters return to create sympathetic networks and carry
out effective, military style, well-planned attacks, including the use of
deception like this fighter did to tragic effect on Friday.

Tourists sitting on a beach witnessed a mass slaughter attack because no-one
would have believed a man dressed as a holidaymaker and carrying an umbrella
could be a terrorist.

This simple deception left many dead and others suffering life changing injuries
and traumatic shock.

British tourists had been warned by the FCO and in many government statements
about these risks but in Tunisia there were special circumstances behind the
killing.

Below: Bardo Museum attack

Tunisia Museum hostage crisis

The country had presented a strong response to an earlier terror attack this
year on the Bardo Museum, which lulled holidaymakers into a false sense of
security.

But globally, the invisible threat remains cyber terrorism and more young people
are being recruited.

We need to influence a generation of young people from under the age of nine to
recognise terrorist grooming from within the family, neighbourhood, school,
university and workplace.

The lessons from Tunisia should remain with Britain as well as the Tunisian
people for a long time and motivate more action to protect people travelling
abroad and at home.

Below: British victims this week

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:22 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Brits flying TO country for holidays while tour giants
help others return home;
Tunisian security expert Mazen Cherif, an advisor to its security services,
warned the country isn't safe

BYLINE: By Lewis Panther

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 283 words


Fearful Brits are heading home as tour operators scramble planes to evacuate
more of them from Tunisia.

However brave ­holidaymakers were also boarding flights TO the country tonight.

Tunisian security expert Mazen Cherif, an advisor to its security services,
warned the country isn't safe.

He said: "The current government lacks a clear security strategy and they refuse
to look into the future or learn from previous mistakes."

Around 424,000 of us visit Tunisia every year.

Jet2 sent four planes to help Brits return home today, Thomas Cook an extra two
on top of the seven scheduled overnight on Friday, with 10 from Thomson.

Thomson is cancelling Thomson and First Choice holidays there for the next week
- and anyone booked up to July 24 can change destination.

The firm is also offering free cancellations for those travelling this weekend
and free destination ­changes up until the end of July.

Jet2 is offering a similar option as are Cosmos and Monarch.

EasyJet is letting those booked on flights to Tunisia over the next ­fortnight
go elsewhere.

But Thomson faced criticism tonight when it emerged it is letting German
­customers change all the way through until mid September.

Tunisia terror attack: At least 15 Britons dead in Sousse massacre

Below: Newspaper front pages from around the world

Newspaper Front Pages from around the world

Jet2 customers are also being urged to check the Jet2.com and Jet2holidays'
websites and social media channels for immediate information.

Customer information lines: - UK customers with Tunisia related queries or
concerned relatives should call 0113 457 0550. - Customers in Tunisia please
call 0044 113 387 9501.

Tunisia eyewitness recounts horror of gunman's attack

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:15 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Heartbroken British mum plays dead as her husband is shot
in front of her;
Cheryl Mellor was doing crosswords on the beach when IS killer Seifeddine Rezgui
opened fire and was shot in the arm and leg

BYLINE: By Dan Warburton

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 921 words


A wounded victim of the Tunisian massacre has told how she survived by playing
dead after her husband Stephen was gunned down in front of her.

Cheryl Mellor was doing crosswords on the beach when IS killer Seifeddine Rezgui
opened fire.

She was hit in a forearm and leg as engineer Stephen, 59, slumped motionless on
the sand while trying to shield her.

Tearful Cheryl, 55, told of her dramatic escape as a picture emerged of the
gunman strolling along the beach at Sousse shortly after the massacre which has
so far claimed the lives of 15 Brits among the 38 holidaymakers killed.

Speaking from her hospital bed, the retired psychiatric nurse said she believes
her husband of nine years did not survive.

"He died on the beach. I'm heartbroken," she wept.

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

The two had hidden behind their sun loungers near the Hotel Marhaba hotel in
Sousse as the shooting started on Friday.

Cheryl said: "There were bullets everywhere. It was terrifying. The noise will
stay with me forever.

"There were so many screams going on. My husband turned to me and said, 'Get
down, get down.'

"He said, 'We've got to make a run for it.' I turned around and there was a gun
pointing right at me around 20ft away. I thought I was dead.

"He blew my hand straight off. All I could see was this figure with a gun
dressed in black.

Tunisia terror attack: Horrific scenes of people fleeing from gunman on beach

"Richard screamed, 'We've got to go.' There was lots of gun fire and then it
went quiet, I turned and I saw my husband lying there motionless on the beach.

"I was screaming at people to check him and someone looked and they said he had
no pulse. They said he was gone."

Bullet fragments and shrapnel shattered Cheryl's forearm and severed two
arteries. She was also hit in the left leg with debris as she tried to run.

Cheryl said: "I couldn't move. There was nothing I could do. I had been shot in
the leg and my hand was hanging off.

"Someone came over and said they would move me but the gunfire started up again
so I just lay there.

"I just played dead. I was absolutely terrified. When the gunfire stopped I kept
hearing foreign voices but I still played dead."

Mum-of-two Cheryl, of Bodmin, Cornwall, was rushed to Salhoul Hospital for
emergency surgery.

She has had no confirmation of Stephen's death but fears the worst.

Cheryl said: "This is a nightmare. Stephen was lovely man. He was my soulmate."

Two more British victims of the Tunisia massacre were named as Bruce Wilkinson,
believed to be from Whickham, Tyne and Wear, and Lisa Burbidge.

Earlier Joel Richards, 19, and his uncle Adrian Evans, 49, were reported to have
been killed in the attack.

Joel is thought to be the brother of Owen Richards, 16, of Tipton, West Mids,
who was found sobbing on the beach after a bullet nicked his shoulder and hit a
relative.

Medics discovered Owen sitting in a garden. As he was treated, the schoolboy
sobbed: "I have to call my mum".

He is thought to have lost three members of his family during the assault.

Tunisia terror attack: At least 15 Britons dead in Sousse massacre

It is believed Owen's grandad Patrick Evans, 78, had also been killed.

A former neighbour of Owen's mum Suzanne, 46, of Wednesbury, West Mids, said:
"It was a lads' trip. I've been told Patrick, Joel and Adrian have all died but
that Owen is alive.

"Suzanne is still here in the UK. She must be in a terrible state."

Adrian Evans had worked for Sandwell Council's gas management department for 32
years.

A worker at the council said Mr Evans, who lived alone in Bilston, West Mids,
was on the first day of his holiday and was due to spend another seven days in
the luxury resort.

Sandwell Council leader, ­Councillor Darren Cooper, said: "Adrian Evans was a
very popular and long-serving employee who was manager of our Gas Services Team.

"We are absolutely devastated for Adrian's family, friends and colleagues and
our thoughts are with them."

Paying tribute to sportsman Joel on their Facebook page, James Connollys GFC, a
Gaelic football club from ­Warwickshire, wrote: "James Connollys GFC is
devastated to learn of the death of one of our players, Joel Richards during the
horrific events in Tunisia on Friday.

"Joel was an exceptionally talented footballer who represented both club and
county with conviction on numerous occasions.

"He will be sadly missed."

Fakher Ben Amor, from the Cliniques Les Oliviers hospital where at least 23
British patients received treatment, helped Owen after he was admitted.

He said: "He had a small injury to his shoulder. He was talking about a bullet
coming over his shoulder.

"He was talking about his mother who is in England.

"When we found him he was with another woman, he was helping her because she had
an injury to her back.

PM David Cameron says public needs to be prepared for the fact that "many of
those killed" in the Tunisia attack were British

"He was crying. He was really shocked and upset."

Dr Anis Hamza, 45, medical director at the Cliniques Les Oliviers confirmed at
least 23 Brits had been admitted to the hospital.

Among the two who remain in intensive care are hero Matthew James, 30, who
shielded his fiancee Sarah Wilson, of Trehafod, South Wales, from bullets.

She told the Sunday Mirror: "He saved my life. He took a bullet for me and had a
heart attack on the operating table. He died twice in surgery."

She was hoping he would be airlifted to Manchester as his condition improved.

Kirsty Murray, 22, also remains in intensive care.

She suffered leg injuries from shrapnel but was in a stable condition.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:04 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: British teenager survives but sees three family members
shot dead in cold blood;
Owen Richards, 16, was found by medics sitting on grass near the beach where at
least 15 Britons were shot dead by IS fanatic Seifeddine Rezgui

BYLINE: By Simon Wright

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1126 words


A British teenager who saw his brother, uncle and grandad shot dead in the
Tunisia beach massacre sobbed minutes ­later: "I have to call my mum."

Owen Richards, 16, was found by medics sitting on grass near the beach where at
least 15 Britons were shot dead by IS fanatic Seifeddine Rezgui.

The three relatives murdered in front of horrified Owen were his brother Joel,
19, uncle Adrian, 49, and grandad Patrick Evans, 79.

Only three months ago all four ­travelled to Wembley to watch their local team
Walsall against Bristol City in the Johnstone's Paint Trophy final.

Owen was found after a bullet nicked his shoulder and fatally hit one of his
relatives.

Tunisia terror attack: At least 15 Britons dead in Sousse massacre

He was on a grassed area bravely trying to help a woman with a bullet wound to
her back.

As he was treated by medics, the schoolboy sobbed: "I have to call my mum".

His heartbreak was revealed today as pictures emerged of mass killer Rezgui, 24,
calmly walking away from the slaughter on the beach at Sousse on Friday.

Sky gunman pic

The student murdered at least 39 holidaymakers with a Kalashnikov automatic
rifle before being shot dead by Tunisian police.

The British death toll is feared to be higher as at least half a dozen couples
are still missing, with UK relatives desperately seeking information.

Medic Fakher Ben Amor, from the Cliniques Les Oliviers hospital where at least
23 wounded British patients received treatment, helped teenager Owen when he was
admitted.

Mr Amor said: "He had a small injury to his shoulder. He was talking about a
bullet coming over his shoulder.

"He was talking about his mother who is in England and he spoke to her on the
phone.

"When we found him he was with another woman, he was helping her because she had
an injury to her back.

"He was crying and he was wearing shorts and t-shirt. He was really shocked and
upset."

Owen lived in a terrace home in Wednesbury, West Midlands, with his mum Suzy,
46, and doomed brother Joel.

A former next-door neighbour of Suzy said: "It was a lads' only trip. I've been
told that Patrick, Joel and Adrian have all died but that Owen is alive.

"Suzy is still here in the UK. She has been told that she should wait here for
them to come home rather than go out to Tunisia because it is too dangerous. She
must be in a terrible state."

Joel and Owen's dad Spencer, 46, who is understood to have divorced Suzy around
ten years ago, lives nearby.

More than a dozen people gathered at the home of murdered Patrick and his wife
Maureen, 71, also nearby.

A woman who answered the door there said: "We are not prepared to say anything
at this stage."

Joel played for James Connollys GFC, a Gaelic football club from Warwickshire.

A club spokesman said: "Joel was an exceptionally talented footballer who
represented both club and county with conviction on numerous occasions. He will
be sadly missed."

Uncle Adrian, who lived alone in Bilston, West Mids, worked for Sandwell Council
as a manager in the gas services department.

Sandwell Council leader Darren Cooper said: "Adrian Evans was a very popular and
long-serving employee who was manager of our Gas Services Team.

"We are absolutely devastated for Adrian's family, friends and colleagues and
our thoughts are with them and all those affected by this tragedy."

Another of the British dead is internet beauty blogger Carly Lovett who escaped
from the gunman on the beach but was killed when he threw a grenade into the
lobby of the Hotel Imperial Marhaba.

Gifted photographer Carly, 24, became separated from her fiance Liam Moore in
the terror and made it back to hotel only for Rezgui to follow and hurl the
grenade.

Survivor Liam phoned parents Christopher and Helen tell them he was safe and
promised to call back once he found Carly.

Carly got engaged to Liam, 24, last Christmas and they had been dating each
other since they were 14.

The couple left their home in Gainsborough, Lincs, for a two-week holiday in
Sousse on Tuesday.

Tunisia terror attack: Horrific scenes of people fleeing from gunman on beach

A friend, who asked not to be named, said: "The family are absolutely
devastated.

"Liam called his parents because he knew they would be worried but said he had
become separated from Carly.

"He promised to call back once he'd found her. But then Carly's mum got a call
to say her daughter was dead.

"Apparently she'd made it from the beach but was in the hotel lobby when the
terrorist came in and threw a grenade.

"It's an absolute tragedy She was such a friendly, lovely girl."

A police worker told how his wife's glasses case saved her life when the gunman
opened fire.

Tony Callaghan and his wife Christine, from Norfolk are among those who were
wounded.

Speaking from his ­hospital bed, Mr Callaghan showed the damaged glasses case
and bag that took the full impact of the bullets.

He said he ­recognised the sound of gunfire immediately from his days serving in
the RAF and shouted a warning to other holidaymakers.

"I shouted that it wasn't a firework display and that people needed to get to
safety now. I remember one old man wandering in a daze and I told him he needed
to get going.

"I saw four bodies as I ran from the swimming pool to the hotel where luckily I
found my wife hiding behind the reception desk.

"We then made our way to the back of the hotel but came to a dead end and heard
more shooting. That's when a bullet grazed my leg and my wife was also shot in
the leg."

Shocking new footage shows deadly Tunisian gun attack

Desperate family and friends of British people missing continued to plead for
information about their loved ones.

Conor Fulford and Ross Naylor, from Derby, took to Twitter seeking information
about the whereabouts of their ­parents, Sue Davey, 44, and partner Scott
Chalkley, 42, who were ­staying at the Hotel Imperial Marhaba.

Conor received a glimmer of hope after seeing TV footage of a woman matching his
mum's description being taken to hospital on a stretcher.

He said: "We're just praying she's at that hospital."

Samuel Stocker, from Crawley, West Sussex, went online seeking information about
his grandparents, John and Janet.

Another missing couple are John Welch, 74, and his partner Eileen Swannock, 70,
from Corsham, Wiltshire.

The couple have visited the Imperial twice a year for the last eight years.

Eileen's granddaughter Lucie Marie, from Bath, has made an appeal on Twitter for
help in finding her 'nan'.

Another frantic relative looking for help was Sara Boyle, who took to Twitter to
find missing Roy and Angela Fisher.

A couple who may have been caught up in the carnage are Margaret and Dougie
Lamb, from Doncaster.

Denis and Elaine Thwaites, aged 70 and 69, from Blackpool, are also missing.

Below: British victims of terror attack

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 10:45 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Bulldog Brits defy terrorists by continuing with their
holidays;
Two planes sent to fly holidaymakers home from Enfidha international airport in
Sousse returned empty

BYLINE: By mirror

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 244 words


Bulldog Britons refused to be sent packing by terrorists as they stayed on in
Tunisia.

Two planes sent to fly holidaymakers home from Enfidha international airport in
Sousse returned empty.

Only around a dozen passengers were seen to disembark from the third jet,
landing at Manchester Airport at about 10.30am.

But many others decided to continue their holidays in defiance of terrorists.

Sally Groome from Beverley, East Yorks said: "We're scared to death but staying.
We won't be beaten.

"We've had reassurance we're in a very safe place and feel confident it can't
happen again. It won't happen again, it was a one-off."

Tunisia Terror Attack: Brits killed on the beach in terror attack in in Sousse

Some tourists had returned to poolside loungers but the mood in resorts remained
tense.

Dave Beardman of Accrington, Lancs, said there was "a great deal of distress and
tension" in his hotel's reception, adding: "Children are crying and people are
trying to make phone calls."

Those who did fly home were clearly shocked and refused to talk about their
ordeal.

One woman, close to tears, said: "It is so difficult to talk about. It was
completely unbelievable."

Others said they had been told to say nothing while an investigation was being
carried out.

Chaplains were on hand at airports to offer counselling.

A Manchester Airport spokesman said: "Very few seem to have decided to fly home.
Very few have arrived here."

Tunisia eyewitness recounts horror of gunman's' attack

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:55 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Hero cop killed fanatic with TWO bullets as police
snipers kept missing him;
Abu Yahya Qayrawani's killing spree was only stopped by a cop with a pistol who
says he is still haunted by the attack

BYLINE: By Dan Warburton

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 505 words


A hero cop told how he shot dead a gunman with two bullets to end his reign of
terror.

Sniper marksmen scaled the roofs of nearby hotels after Abu Yahya Qayrawani
murdered scores of holidaymakers on the popular holiday resort.

As he calmly walked down a side street - carrying an assault rifle and grenades
- they peppered his path with bullets.

But it took the actions of a hero officer carrying a pistol to end his
terrifying assault.

Speaking to Sunday Mirror, after we agreed to keep his identity a secret, he
said he was haunted by the attack.

Re-living the shoot-out, he said: "I put two bullets in him. I haven't slept
since."

Qayrawani is believed to have landed on the beach outside the Imperial Marhaba
Hotel in the Tunisian resort of Sousse by jet ski.

However eyewitnesses have different accounts of how he began his killing spree
that shattered the peace of the idyllic seafront.

Ex-pat Vicci Spencer, 38, who is originally from Grimsby, said the gunman had
hidden his weapons in a parasol before launching the attack.

She said: "He was just walking along the road, like nothing had happened. They
were firing shots at him but just kept missing.

"But when he was eventually killed they closed off the road and bomb disposal
experts came and collected the grenades.

"When it was clear everything was OK the locals were cheering and celebrating
his death."

Read more: Live updates from Tunisia after yesterday's massacre

After spraying bullets around the beach, the gunman walked up a side street
outside an apartment development belonging to Mayel Moncef, 56.

His van still bares the scars of the attack, with bullet holes piercing the
metal and glass of his vehicle.

Mayel told how the gunman fell to his knees in prayer before a grenade rolled
from his grasp into the gutter.

Snipers were firing onto his building, causing extensive damage to the
brickwork.

But the gunman was able to stand-up and walk a short distance around the corner
before he was eventually killed.

Shocking new footage shows deadly Tunisian gun attack

Vicci said: "The Tunisian people are heartbroken - the tourists were targeted
but it's Tunisia that has died."

Dozens of Brits desperately fled the Marhaba Imperial Hotel on Friday, just
hours after the attack.

The Sunday Mirror witnessed dozens of holidaymakers desperately queueing to
board bus after bus heading for the airport.

One man, who did not want to be named, said: "It's terrifying, one minute you're
on a sun lounger then the next there are bullets whizzing past your head.

"How can we stay here now, go back out on that beach, when we know what happened
there?"

Tunisia attack: The day after the attack

Roger Buckland, 67, and Kay Bryan, 71, both from Norwich, were staying in the
neighbouring Bellevue Hotel when the attack happened.

Roger said: "The entertainment was going on around the pool then all we could
hear was this automatic fire and there was bombs going off.

"Loads of people came running through the hotel and they were screaming. It was
awful.

"We want to go home but there aren't the flights."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:51 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack victim Carly Lovett escaped gun blast only to be killed by
a grenade;
Gifted photographer Carly, 24, became separated from her fiance Liam Moore
during the beach bloodbath and ran back to what she thought was the safety of
her hotel

BYLINE: By Simon Wright

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 478 words


Tunisia massacre victim Carly Lovett escaped from gunman ­Seifeddine Rezgui as
he sprayed ­holidaymakers with bullets - only to be killed in a grenade blast.

Gifted photographer Carly, 24, became separated from her fiance Liam Moore
during the bloodbath on the beach and ran back to what she thought was the
safety of her hotel.

But she died when the lobby area was blown up shortly after the shootings.

Liam, 24, survived and called his parents Christopher and Helen to tell them he
was safe, promising to call back once he found Carly.

The two got engaged last Christmas after dating since they were 14.

They left the UK on Wednesday for a two week holiday in the resort of Sousse.

Tunisia terror attack: At least 15 Britons dead in Sousse massacre

Carly had tweeted excitedly that day: "Definitely leaving in like three hours
and definitely am not finished packing."

Three days earlier she shared the last photograph of her and Liam on Instagram
with the message: "It's been a long day. I'm so bloody ­knackered. Here's my
'crazy tired but here I am awake' face..."

On Friday they were sunbathing on the beach when Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire
with a Kalashnikov.

A friend, who asked not to be named, said: "The family are absolutely
devastated".

Liam called his parents because he knew they would be worried but said he had
become separated from Carly.

He promised to call back once he'd found her.

"But then Carly's mum got a call from the local paper to say her daughter was
dead.

"Apparently she'd made it from the beach but was in the hotel lobby when a
terrorist came in and threw a grenade.

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

"It's an absolute tragedy. She was such a friendly, lovely girl."

Carly's divorced parents John and Joanne are too upset to comment on the
tragedy.

Police officers were stationed at both their homes and they were being comforted
by relatives.

A week ago, Carly posted a Father's Day photograph on social media of her and
her dad when she was a little girl along with the message: "Hoping that my Dad
liked his present today! One of my favourite photos of us!"

A neighbour of the modern, three-bedroom semi-detached house in a quiet cul de
sac which Carly shared with her mum and younger sister Jordan said: "We've only
just found out. It is so socking and upsetting.

"We didn't know Carly very well because she lives mainly with her boyfriend.

"But they are a lovely family. We still just can't believe that she has been
killed."

Another neighbour of Carly's dad, who lives on a new estate two miles away,
added: "We're in shock. It's ­unbelievable.

"Heaven knows what the family is going through."

Carly was a photographer for e-commerce website Fizzco based near her home in
Gainsborough, ­Lincolnshire.

She graduated two years ago from a media course at Lincoln University.

Scene of the Tunisian beach massacre lies deserted a day after the attack

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:40 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: 'Three dead from same family as grandfather is named as
6th British victim of shooting';
Patrick Evans was reportedly killed alongside his son Adrian Evans and his
grandson Joel Richards, 19

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 1027 words


Three members of the same family are reported to have been killed in the
Tunisian gun massacre after grandfather Patrick Evans was named as the sixth
British victim.

Mr Evans is understood to be the father of Adrian Evans, and the grandfather of
Joel Richards, 19, both of who died in the attack at the resort of Sousse on
Friday.

Joel, a student at the University of Worcester, died alongside his uncle Adrian
Evans and is one of five victims to be named so far.

Carly Lovett, from Lincoln, Bruce Wilkinson, from Goole, East Yorkshire, and
Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham, Tyne and Wear are also among the dead.

Joel and his uncle Adrian were keen supporters of Walsall Football Club while
Joel was also a talented referee "with the world at his feet."

In a statement, Birmingham County FA said: "Joel was an active member of the
Birmingham County FA youth council.

"A young talented referee with the world at his feet, he was highly thought of
and will be sadly missed.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends at this time."

The teenager's Facebook profile picture shows him standing on Wembley Way when
the League One side played there earlier this year.

A post was also uploaded on fans' forum site Vital Walsall paying tribute to the
tragic victims.

It said: "We are saddened to report that Walsall fans Adrian Evans and Joel
Richards have been reported to be amongst the victims of the Tunisia terrorist
attacks.

"Adrian, Joel and another family member who is yet to be named were on the beach
in Sousse when a terrorist started shooting.

"Our deepest condolences and prayers are with their family and friends at this
deeply sad time.

"Fellow Saddlers you will be forever in our hearts."

Mr Evans worked as a manager for Sandwell Council in the West Midlands, based in
its gas services department.

A council source described the news as "horrendous" and said their thoughts were
with the family and council colleagues.

The Birmingham Mail reports that he died alongside two other members of his
family, although this has not been confirmed.

A council source told the paper Mr Evans had worked for the council for 32
years, and was on his first day of a holiday in Tunisia.

He was due to spend seven days in the African country before a week's stay in
France.

The source said: "When I heard about it I was very sickened. To have someone so
close to you lost in such a way is terrible.

"He was a committed man who gave good service to the people of Sandwell."

It comes after 24-year-old Carly Lovett was the first British victim to be named
earlier today.

PM David Cameron says public needs to be prepared for the fact that "many of
those killed" in the Tunisia attack were British

The newly engaged beauty blogger is believed to have been on holiday with her
fiance when she was killed.

Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood warned that figure "may well rise" further,
adding that it was "the most significant terrorist attack on the British people"
since July 7, 2005, when 52 people were killed.

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

British police have flown to the resort to help identify victims, consular teams
are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected, and he said had spent
much of today on the phone with victims and families caught up in the "appalling
attack".

Tunisia attack: The day after the attack

Read more: Live updates from Tunisia after yesterday's massacre

The death toll in the terrorist attack at the beach resort of Sousse currently
stands at 38, with eight of the dead confirmed to be British.

But the Tunisian prime minister has warned that the "majority" of those killed
were British.

David Cameron echoed that earlier today, saying that the country needed to
prepare itself for further news that "many of those killed would be British".

The slaughter happened when a gunman, disguised as a tourist, opened fire on the
busy beach in the resort, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK
and Ireland.

Terror group Islamic State have claimed responsibility for the attack.

The gunman, identified as Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani, 23, was reportedly laughing as
he carried out the massacre and deliberately selected western tourists.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach.

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: "He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy. He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to
them, 'You go away'. He was choosing tourists, British, French."

Among the victims was also an Irish mother-of-two who was named locally as Lorna
Carty from Robinstown, County Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond gave details of the government response today.

He said: "The situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can't be
sure exactly how many, but because of the nature of the composition of the
tourist population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high
proportion of those killed and injured will have been British."

Shocking new footage shows deadly Tunisian gun attack

It comes three months after mother-of-two Sally Adey, from Caynton, near
Shifnal, died in a terrorist attack in Tunis.

Mrs Adey, a retired solicitor, died in the shooting at the Bardo National Museum
in Tunisia on March 18.

She had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her 52-year-old husband Robert, who
survived the attack.

More than 20 people were killed in the attack, with 17 of those being cruise
ship passengers.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 8:55 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack killer relaxed on beach moments before spraying tourists
with bullets;
The ease at which Seifeddine Rezgui, 24, was able carry out his rampage is being
scrutinised by experts

BYLINE: By Simon Wright

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 501 words


Shocking new footage shows deadly Tunisian gun attack

One of the terrorists behind the beach bloodbath enjoyed a dip and relaxed on a
lounger just moments before pulling out a machine gun and spraying tourists with
bullets.

The ease at which Seifeddine Rezgui, 24, was able carry out his rampage is being
scrutinised by experts.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond is likely to come under fierce criticism for
failing warn off tourists following the deadly attack on a museum in March.

At the time he said further attacks "were possible" but stopped short of
advising against travel to Tunisia.

And last night - more than 24 hours after the slaughter - the official Foreign
Office website still classed the risk as "green", meaning safe to visit.

Terror attack on hotel in Sousse

Meanwhile, a chilling video surfaced showing Rezgui swaggering down the beach
armed with a Kalashnikov he had hidden in a parasol.

It also emerged he was allowed to carry out his rampage despite posting a string
of vile messages praising IS and regularly attending mosques run by extremists.

His Facebook page has now been blocked, but in an old post he declares: "If the
love of jihad is a crime, everyone can testify that I am a criminal."

In another he called for jihad and said he was ready to become a martyr.

He ranted: "The heroes are in their graves, real men in prisons, and traitors in
the palace."

In a post on December 31 he blasted people celebrating New Year, calling them
"kuffar", a derogatory term for non-Muslims.

But it appears Rezgui, studying for a degree in computer engineering, slipped
through the net. He was unknown to the authorities and was not on any watch
list.

He had no criminal record and was not known to have attended jihad training
camps in neighbouring Libya.

The Tunisian government reacted to Friday's attack by saying around 80 mosques
accused of "spreading venom" will close within a week.

But the atrocity has left many fearing the start of a string of attacks on other
holiday destinations popular with Brits, including Turkey and Morocco.

IS had previously called on followers to step up attacks on western targets
during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, which runs until July 17.

Turkey, which welcomes more than 2.5 million British sun-seekers every year, is
feared to be particularly at risk because it borders volatile Iraq and Syria.

Foreign Office advice warns of a "high threat from terrorism".

It adds: "Attacks could be indiscriminate and could affect places visited by
foreigners."

Terrorism expert Neil Doyle said reports Rezgui - one of an estimated 7,000
Tunisians to have joined IS ranks - was deliberately singling out Brits was
"particularly worrying".

He continued: "The slaughter in Sousse means that Islamic State has perhaps
reached one of its main objectives: the mass murder of Britons in retaliation
for the limited participation of the UK in military action against it."

He added: "IS is extending its reach along the southern shores of the Med and
really is on Europe's doorstep now."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 8:25 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: British victim named as 19-year-old student Joel
Richards;
Mr Richards, who was studying at the University of Worcester, is one of at least
15 Brits feared to have died in the atrocity

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 994 words


This is the third British victim of the Tunisian gun massacre to be identified -
teenager Joel Richards.

Joel, a 19-year-old student at the University of Worcester, died alongside his
uncle Adrian Evans and grandad Patrick and is one of six victims to be named so
far.

Carly Lovett, from Lincoln, Bruce Wilkinson, from Goole, East Yorkshire, and
Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham, Tyne and Wear are also among the dead.

Joel, Adrian and Patrick were keen supporters of Walsall Football Club while
Joel was also a talented referee "with the world at his feet."

In a statement, Birmingham County FA said: "Joel was an active member of the
Birmingham County FA youth council.

"A young talented referee with the world at his feet, he was highly thought of
and will be sadly missed.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends at this time."

The teenager's Facebook profile picture shows him standing on Wembley Way when
the League One side played there earlier this year.

A post was also uploaded on fans' forum site Vital Walsall paying tribute to the
tragic victims.

It said: "We are saddened to report that Walsall fans Adrian Evans and Joel
Richards have been reported to be amongst the victims of the Tunisia terrorist
attacks.

"Adrian, Joel and another family member who is yet to be named were on the beach
in Sousse when a terrorist started shooting.

"Our deepest condolences and prayers are with their family and friends at this
deeply sad time.

"Fellow Saddlers you will be forever in our hearts."

Mr Evans worked as a manager for Sandwell Council in the West Midlands, based in
its gas services department.

A council source described the news as "horrendous" and said their thoughts were
with the family and council colleagues.

The Birmingham Mail reports that he died alongside two other members of his
family, although this has not been confirmed.

A council source told the paper Mr Evans had worked for the council for 32
years, and was on his first day of a holiday in Tunisia.

He was due to spend seven days in the African country before a week's stay in
France.

The source said: "When I heard about it I was very sickened. To have someone so
close to you lost in such a way is terrible.

"He was a committed man who gave good service to the people of Sandwell."

It comes after 24-year-old Carly Lovett was the first British victim to be named
earlier today.

The newly engaged beauty blogger is believed to have been on holiday with her
fiance when she was killed.

Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood warned that figure "may well rise" further,
adding that it was "the most significant terrorist attack on the British people"
since July 7, 2005, when 52 people were killed.

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

British police have flown to the resort to help identify victims, consular teams
are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected, and he said had spent
much of today on the phone with victims and families caught up in the "appalling
attack".

unisia attack: The day after the attack

Read more: Live updates from Tunisia after yesterday's massacre

The death toll in the terrorist attack at the beach resort of Sousse currently
stands at 38, with eight of the dead confirmed to be British.

But the Tunisian prime minister has warned that the "majority" of those killed
were British.

David Cameron echoed that earlier today, saying that the country needed to
prepare itself for further news that "many of those killed would be British".

PM David Cameron says public needs to be prepared for the fact that "many of
those killed" in the Tunisia attack were British

The slaughter happened when a gunman, disguised as a tourist, opened fire on the
busy beach in the resort, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK
and Ireland.

Terror group Islamic State have claimed responsibility for the attack.

The gunman, identified as Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani, 23, was reportedly laughing as
he carried out the massacre and deliberately selected western tourists.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach.

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: "He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy. He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to
them, 'You go away'. He was choosing tourists, British, French."

Among the victims was also an Irish mother-of-two who was named locally as Lorna
Carty from Robinstown, County Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond gave details of the government response today.

He said: "The situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can't be
sure exactly how many, but because of the nature of the composition of the
tourist population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high
proportion of those killed and injured will have been British."

Shocking new footage shows deadly Tunisian gun attack

It comes three months after mother-of-two Sally Adey, from Caynton, near
Shifnal, died in a terrorist attack in Tunis.

Mrs Adey, a retired solicitor, died in the shooting at the Bardo National Museum
in Tunisia on March 18.

She had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her 52-year-old husband Robert, who
survived the attack.

More than 20 people were killed in the attack, with 17 of those being cruise
ship passengers.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 7:56 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: 'Bloody paving and upturned sunloungers' - Mirror man
describes harrowing scene at site of gun massacre;
This beach was full of happy holidaymakers on Friday when the gunman struck,
leaving at least 38 innocent victims dead

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 440 words


Upturned sun loungers, bloody paving and armed cops mark the spot where an IS
gunman killed 38 innocent tourists - including at least 15 Brits.

The beach in front of the Imperial Marhaba hotel in Sousse, Tunisia saw hundreds
of holidaymakers enjoying just another day of sun and relaxation at lunch time
on Friday.

Within a matter of minutes, it was a scene of carnage, with bodies scattered by
the hotel pool as rapid gun fire sent hundreds of panic-stricken holidaymakers
running for cover.

Twenty-four hours on, it was deserted and silent, except for news crews from
around the world interviewing the bewildered locals who saw their livelihoods
wrecked overnight.

There is a cordon marking the golden sands as a scene of crime.

The hotel itself was surrounded by police, with officers riding along the sea
front on a beach buggy.

FOLLOW OUR LATEST UPDATES HERE:

Inside, specially trained counsellors from the British Red Cross had flown in to
speak to victims' family members, those who had witnessed the bloody massacre,
and those whose friends and relatives were being treated in nearby hospitals.

Hundreds more had elected to fly home on eight specially chartered flights.

They left behind a makeshift shrine of flowers and messages near the Med.

Some bouquets were brought by the people of Sousse, and the holidaymakers who
stayed behind.

One read simply: "Warum?" - 'Why?' in German, a reminder that those who lost
their lives came from across Europe.

One was defiant: "Terrorism will not win".

It stood out among the messages as a Tunisian dad arrived with his two young
daughters and toddler son to lay flowers.

He sprinkled the shrine with water to keep the flowers alive in the sweltering
temperatures.

Just 500m away, at neighbouring hotels, there was a show of defiance from those
who took to the sands despite the evil act of terrorism just hours before.

But German businessman Udo Schneider, 50, admitted it was a strange feeling to
be back on the sands - and he would have gone home if the flights had been
available.

"It does not feel right carrying on as before when this happened so close by,"
said Udo, on holiday with a family group including his sister and parents.

Tunisia attack: The day after the attack

"We looked at going home but could not get a flight.

"It is a feeling of betrayal being here still."

On the long beaches of Sousse which stretch for miles, there were Australian,
German and French voices, but no English accents to be heard. Most had elected
to go home within hours of the atrocity.

"I just had to get the kids home," said mum-of-two Elizabeth O'Brien, from
Dublin.

Shocking new footage shows deadly Tunisian gun attack

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 6:37 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Chilling pictures show gunman on beach where he massacred
38 people;
Kalshnikov in hand, the killer is seen strolling in the surf with unsuspecting
tourists on the beach behind him

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 834 words


Sky gunman pic

Chilling images of the Tunisia gunman walking along the beach where he massacred
38 tourists have emerged.

Sky News has published pictures of the killer, identified earlier today as
23-year-old Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani, strolling along the shoreline kalshnikov in
hand, with sun loungers and inflatables behind him.

Dressed in black shorts and T-shirt, he is seen walking by dozens of
unsuspecting tourists.

Witnesses told Sky that he was "very very calm" as he began shooting at
holidaymakers, having hidden his weapon inside a parasol.

The pictures were released as it was confirmed there are at least 15 British
victims of the atrocity.

Tunisia attack: The day after the attack

Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood warned that figure "may well rise" further,
adding that it was "the most significant terrorist attack on the British people"
since July 7, 2005, when 52 people were killed.

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

British police have flown to the resort to help identify victims, consular teams
are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected, and he said had spent
much of today on the phone with victims and families caught up in the "appalling
attack".

Read more: Live updates from Tunisia after yesterday's massacre

The second British victim of the tragedy has been named as Adrian Evans - a
manager for Sandwell Council in the West Midlands, based in its gas services
department.

The Birmingham Mail reports that he died alongside two other members of his
family, although this has not been confirmed.

A council source told the paper Mr Evans had worked for the council for 32
years, and was on his first day of a holiday in Tunisia.

He was due to spend seven days in the African country before a week's stay in
France.

The source said: "When I heard about it I was very sickened. To have someone so
close to you lost in such a way is terrible.

"He was a committed man who gave good service to the people of Sandwell."

It comes after 24-year-old Carly Lovett was the first British victim to be named
earlier today.

The newly engaged beauty blogger is believed to have been on holiday with her
fiance when she was killed.

The death toll in the terrorist attack at the beach resort of Sousse currently
stands at 38, with eight of the dead confirmed to be British.

But the Tunisian prime minister has warned that the "majority" of those killed
were British.

David Cameron echoed that earlier today, saying that the country needed to
prepare itself for further news that "many of those killed would be British".

PM David Cameron says public needs to be prepared for the fact that "many of
those killed" in the Tunisia attack were British

The slaughter happened when a gunman, disguised as a tourist, opened fire on the
busy beach in the resort, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK
and Ireland.

Terror group Islamic State have claimed responsibility for the attack.

The gunman was reportedly laughing as he carried out the massacre and
deliberately selected western tourists.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach.

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: "He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy. He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to
them, 'You go away'. He was choosing tourists, British, French."

Among the victims was also an Irish mother-of-two who was named locally as Lorna
Carty from Robinstown, County Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond gave details of the government response today.

He said: "The situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can't be
sure exactly how many, but because of the nature of the composition of the
tourist population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high
proportion of those killed and injured will have been British."

Shocking new footage shows deadly Tunisian gun attack

It comes three months after mother-of-two Sally Adey, from Caynton, near
Shifnal, died in a terrorist attack in Tunis.

Mrs Adey, a retired solicitor, died in the shooting at the Bardo National Museum
in Tunisia on March 18.

She had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her 52-year-old husband Robert, who
survived the attack.

More than 20 people were killed in the attack, with 17 of those being cruise
ship passengers.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 6:33 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: #JeSuisSousse hashtag goes viral as Twitter users show
solidarity with victims;
The move is an echo of the reaction to the Charlie Hebdo massacre in Paris

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 833 words


The hashtag #JeSuisSousse has gone viral in solidarity with victims of the
Tunisia terror attacks.

The move is an echo of the reaction to the Charlie Hebdo massacre in Paris.

The new hashtag has been retweeted thousands of times from people as far afield
as the Middle East and Turkey.

It comes as the first picture of British victim Adrian Evans was revealed.

Mr Evans reportedly worked for Sandwell Council as a manager in the gas services
department.

A council source described the news as "horrendous" and said their thoughts were
with the family and council colleagues.

Mr Evans is one of at least 15 Brits feared to have died in the atrocity.

Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood warned that figure "may well rise" further,
adding that it was "the most significant terrorist attack on the British people"
since July 7, 2005, when 52 people were killed.

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Tunisia attack: The day after the attack

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

British police have flown to the resort to help identify victims, consular teams
are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected, and he said had spent
much of today on the phone with victims and families caught up in the "appalling
attack".

Read more: Live updates from Tunisia after yesterday's massacre

Victim Adrian Evans worked as a manager for Sandwell Council in the West
Midlands, based in its gas services department.

The Birmingham Mail reports that he died alongside two other members of his
family, although this has not been confirmed.

A council source told the paper Mr Evans had worked for the council for 32
years, and was on his first day of a holiday in Tunisia.

He was due to spend seven days in the African country before a week's stay in
France.

The source said: "When I heard about it I was very sickened. To have someone so
close to you lost in such a way is terrible.

"He was a committed man who gave good service to the people of Sandwell."

It comes after 24-year-old Carly Lovett was the first British victim to be named
earlier today.

The newly engaged beauty blogger is believed to have been on holiday with her
fiance when she was killed.

The death toll in the terrorist attack at the beach resort of Sousse currently
stands at 38, with eight of the dead confirmed to be British.

But the Tunisian prime minister has warned that the "majority" of those killed
were British.

David Cameron echoed that earlier today, saying that the country needed to
prepare itself for further news that "many of those killed would be British".

PM David Cameron says public needs to be prepared for the fact that "many of
those killed" in the Tunisia attack were British

The slaughter happened when a gunman, disguised as a tourist, opened fire on the
busy beach in the resort, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK
and Ireland.

Terror group Islamic State have claimed responsibility for the attack.

The gunman, identified as Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani, 23, was reportedly laughing as
he carried out the massacre and deliberately selected western tourists.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach.

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: "He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy. He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to
them, 'You go away'. He was choosing tourists, British, French."

Among the victims was also an Irish mother-of-two who was named locally as Lorna
Carty from Robinstown, County Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond gave details of the government response today.

He said: "The situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can't be
sure exactly how many, but because of the nature of the composition of the
tourist population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high
proportion of those killed and injured will have been British."

Shocking new footage shows deadly Tunisian gun attack

It comes three months after mother-of-two Sally Adey, from Caynton, near
Shifnal, died in a terrorist attack in Tunis.

Mrs Adey, a retired solicitor, died in the shooting at the Bardo National Museum
in Tunisia on March 18.

She had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her 52-year-old husband Robert, who
survived the attack.

More than 20 people were killed in the attack, with 17 of those being cruise
ship passengers.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 5:41 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: First picture of British victim Adrian Evans, council
worker killed on first day of holiday;
Mr Evans is one of at least 15 Brits feared to have died in the atrocity

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 775 words


This picture shows Adrian Evans - the second British victim of yesterday's
Tunisia terrorist massacre to be named.

Mr Evans worked as a manager for Sandwell Council in the West Midlands, based in
its gas services department.

A council source described the news as "horrendous" and said their thoughts were
with the family and council colleagues.

The Birmingham Mail reports that he died alongside two other members of his
family, although this has not been confirmed.

A council source told the paper Mr Evans had worked for the council for 32
years, and was on his first day of a holiday in Tunisia.

He was due to spend seven days in the African country before a week's stay in
France.

The source said: "When I heard about it I was very sickened. To have someone so
close to you lost in such a way is terrible.

"He was a committed man who gave good service to the people of Sandwell."

It comes after 24-year-old Carly Lovett was the first British victim to be named
earlier today.

The newly engaged beauty blogger is believed to have been on holiday with her
fiance when she was killed.

Mr Evans is one of at least 15 Brits feared to have died in the atrocity.

Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood warned that figure "may well rise" further,
adding that it was "the most significant terrorist attack on the British people"
since July 7, 2005, when 52 people were killed.

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Tunisia attack: The day after the attack

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

British police have flown to the resort to help identify victims, consular teams
are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected, and he said had spent
much of today on the phone with victims and families caught up in the "appalling
attack".

Read more: Live updates from Tunisia after yesterday's massacre

The death toll in the terrorist attack at the beach resort of Sousse currently
stands at 38, with eight of the dead confirmed to be British.

But the Tunisian prime minister has warned that the "majority" of those killed
were British.

David Cameron echoed that earlier today, saying that the country needed to
prepare itself for further news that "many of those killed would be British".

PM David Cameron says public needs to be prepared for the fact that "many of
those killed" in the Tunisia attack were British

The slaughter happened when a gunman, disguised as a tourist, opened fire on the
busy beach in the resort, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK
and Ireland.

Terror group Islamic State have claimed responsibility for the attack.

The gunman, identified as Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani, 23, was reportedly laughing as
he carried out the massacre and deliberately selected western tourists.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach.

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: "He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy. He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to
them, 'You go away'. He was choosing tourists, British, French."

Among the victims was also an Irish mother-of-two who was named locally as Lorna
Carty from Robinstown, County Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond gave details of the government response today.

He said: "The situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can't be
sure exactly how many, but because of the nature of the composition of the
tourist population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high
proportion of those killed and injured will have been British."

Shocking new footage shows deadly Tunisian gun attack

It comes three months after mother-of-two Sally Adey, from Caynton, near
Shifnal, died in a terrorist attack in Tunis.

Mrs Adey, a retired solicitor, died in the shooting at the Bardo National Museum
in Tunisia on March 18.

She had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her 52-year-old husband Robert, who
survived the attack.

More than 20 people were killed in the attack, with 17 of those being cruise
ship passengers.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 5:16 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Terror massacre had 'no direct link' with incidents in
France and Kuwait;
The beach massacre in Tunisia came on the same day a man was found decapitated
at a French factory and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 557 words


Government officials believe there is no 'direct link' between yesterday's
attacks in Tunisia, France and Kuwait.

The beach massacre in the popular Tunisian resort of Sousse came on the same day
a man was found decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamic extremists on a
French factory and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed, killing at least 25
people.

UK and American officials are understood to believe the three attacks were not
co-ordinated but have still moved to heighten security around a number of events
in the UK this weekend.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked, they come after IS
called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of calamities for the
non-believers".

Read more:  Follow the latest updates following the Tunisia hotel attack here

US State Department spokesman John Kirby said: "I want to make clear I think
there is a common thread here of extremist activity.

"But I don't believe we've seen any evidence of tactical coordination ...
between the attacks, or by any one or any number of individual terrorist
organisations."

Sky News has also reported UK Government sources have seen 'no indication' of a
direct link between the attacks.

At least eight Brits are among 39 holidaymakers killed in the Tunisian beach
massacre .

A kalashnikov-wielding suspect, named by some ISIS supporters as student
Seifeddine Rezgui, targeted Western tourists as he terrorised the popular resort
of Sousse.

Tunisian authorities have confirmed the nationalities of 10 of the dead so far,
with a Belgian and a German identified alongside the British victims.

Prime Minister David Cameron has warned that the public should be "prepared for
the fact that many of those killed were British".

One of those killed has been named as 24-year-old fashion blogger Carly Lovett
from Gainsborough, Lincolnshire.

Carly, who had only been engaged a few months, was with her fiancé staying at
the beach resort.

Scotland Yard said police travelled to Tunisia to help investigate the killings
and officers are also interviewing tourists returning at British airports.

Assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, national policing lead for
counter-terrorism, said: "We've deployed a large number of officers out to
Tunisia, both in terms of our own evidence gathering - forensic experts, helping
the Tunisia authorities - and also we've got experts in family liaison
assisting."

Meanwhile, French police are quizzing a 35-year-old delivery man over a
suspected Islamist attack involving the beheading of his boss and an attempt to
blow up a U.S.-owned chemicals plant in southeastern France .

Yassim Salhi is suspected of having rammed his delivery van into a warehouse of
gas containers, triggering an initial explosion.

He was arrested minutes later while opening canisters containing flammable
chemicals, prosecutors said on Friday.

Police later found the head of the 54-year-old manager of the transport firm
that employed the suspect, dangling from a fence at the site, framed by flags
with written references to Islam.

Kuwait's interior ministry said it had detained the owner of a vehicle which a
suicide bomber used to get to a Shi'ite Muslim mosque where he blew himself up,
killing 27 and wounding 200 people mid-prayer.

Militant group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack.

Shocking new footage shows deadly Tunisian gun attack

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 4:28 PM GMT

'ISIS' Grenoble beheading: First picture of man brutally decapitated in gas
factory terror attack;
Herve Cornara was the manager of the delivery company 35-year-old murder suspect
Yassin Salhi worked far and was found pinned to the front of the factory

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 625 words


This is the first picture of businessman Herve Cornara who was found beheaded in
a suspected terror attack at a French factory.

The delivery company owner is understood to have employed 35-year-old murder
suspect Yassin Salhi, who was arrested moments after the attack yesterday.

His decapitated body was found pinned to front of ATC-colicom in Chassieu
surrounded by Islamist flags.

French president François Hollande has said he expects further terrorist attacks
in the country and has "no doubt" the beheading of the gas factory boss was part
of a wider plot to blow up the plant.

President Hollande told reporters: "The question is not if there will be another
attack... but when" after holding a second emergency defence council meeting
today.

Delivery driver Yassin Salhi is still being quizzed over the brutal killing of
the manager of the transport firm he worked for.

Salhi's wife and sister and an unnamed fourth man were also taken into custody
yesterday.

Salhi is suspected of having rammed his delivery van into a warehouse of gas
containers, triggering an initial explosion. He was arrested minutes later while
opening canisters containing flammable chemicals, prosecutors said yesterday.

President Hollande is dealing with new security fears less than six months after
17 were killed by Islamist gunmen at satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo and a Jewish
foodstore in Paris.

He said: "It's difficult for a society to live for years under the threat of
attack. The question is not if there will be another attack ... but when."

Unlike two of gunman behind the January attacks, Salhi does not have a criminal
record, but the fact he was listed between 2006 and 2008 as someone at risk of
radicalisation, and later came to the attention of intelligence services because
of his links to radical Islamists, will spark local political debate.

It could also rekindle tensions surrounding France's five million Muslims,
despite the fact that the vast majority of them were repulsed by the Charlie
Hebdo killings.

Earlier, a woman claiming to be the wife rang into a French radio station and
spoke about her confusion and fear about the arrest .

Officials said the suspect apparently miscalculated how explosive the chemicals
he smashed into would be.

Two more people were injured in the attack, authorities said.

President Francois Hollande, speaking in Brussels, said the attack began when a
car crashed through the gate of the factory and ploughed into gas canisters,
touching off an explosion.

"No doubt about the intention - to cause an explosion," Mr Hollande said,
calling the attack "of a terrorist nature".

Read more: British tourists describe their horror at Tunisia terror attack that
killed 28

Interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve said a man who had been flagged in 2006 for
suspected ties to extremists was seized by an alert firefighter, and was one of
multiple people in custody after the attack.

Wife of suspected terrorist Yassin Salhi discovers her husband is alleged killer
LIVE on radio

A security official said Mr Cornara had been killed before the explosion.

Mr Cazeneuve said: "People who could have participated in this abject crime are
in custody."

He added that the suspect was known to intelligence services who had him under
surveillance from 2006 to 2008.

Mr Cornara's head was found staked on a gate at the factory's entrance, in what
appeared to be an echo of the Islamic State group's practice of beheading
prisoners and displaying their heads for all to see.

An official said two flags - one white and one black, both with Arabic
inscriptions - were found nearby.

France's anti-terror prosecutor said an investigation had been opened and
potential charges included plotting as part of "a terrorist group".

Terror attack in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 1:22 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Tragic nurse gunned down in terror attack was due to fly
home today;
Tragic Lorna Carty, from Co Meath, Ireland, had only gone to the beach for a
'last bit of sun' when she was caught up in the attack

BYLINE: By Emma McMenamy

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 437 words


A nurse shot dead in the Tunisian beach gunman was due to fly home from holiday
today, and had only gone to the beach to get "a last bit of sun".

Tragic Lorna Carty, from Co Meath, Ireland, was one of 40 people shot dead in a
horrific attack by a man who stalked the popular resort of Sousse, opening fire
on tourists.

Islamic State have claimed responsibility for the attack and named the gunman as
23-year-old engineering student Seifeddine Yacoubi.

The Irish Mirror reports tributes have flowed for the "lovely and caring" mother
of two who was on holiday with her husband Declan when terror struck yesterday.

Ms Carty, aged in her 50s, flew over to Tunisia with Declan after he recently
had heart surgery. Tragically, the pair had been due to fly home today.

A family friend told The Times said: "Declan was in the hotel and lorna went out
to get a last bit of sun before leaving.

"When he heard all the commotion he went outm then he recognised the towel and
the blood on it. He's devastated."

Fine Gael TD Ray Butler said he had been talking to her grief-stricken husband.
Speaking on RTE News, he added: "It was one of the hardest phone calls I ever
made and it was so sad to hear what happened.

"What I have heard is that a brother-in-law gave the family flights as a gift
after the husband had heart surgery

"It was supposed to be a time for them to go and enjoy themselves and relax on
holiday.

Read more: Follow the latest updates following the Tunisia hotel attack here

"It was a gift that has ended so tragically. The community is shocked, the whole
area is." Independent councillor Wayne Forde said Navan was in shock last night
after hearing the news of Ms Carty's death.

He told the Irish Mirror: "Everyone is just gobsmacked, as you can imagine, we
just can't believe this could happen.

"She was just relaxing on the beach and was shot for no reason.

"Everyone here is shocked and devastated."

Tunisia attack: The day after the attack

Cllr Forde said the victim, who worked in a doctor's surgery in the town, came
from a well-known GAA family.

He added: "Her son Simon plays on the Meath team and was actually supposed to be
playing tomorrow.

"She also has a daughter who is on holiday in Turkey at the moment, my heart
goes out to them."

Foreign Minister Charlie Flanagan said: "Our people have been in contact with
the family, with their relatives. We cannot exclude the possibility of further
Irish involvement. We are actively engaged in seeking further information.

"Our priority will be the safe return of Irish citizens at the earliest
opportunity."

Scene of the Tunisian beach massacre lies deserted a day after the attack

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:54 AM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Off-duty police warned not to wear uniforms as officials
fear Lee Rigby-style attack;
Guidance telling all officers to cover their uniforms when travelling to work or
from stations was issued to forces in the wake of terror attacks around the
world

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 429 words


Police have been urged not to wear uniform on duty over fears of a Lee
Rigby-style attack on an officer, in the wake of terror attacks around the world
yesterday.

The guidance telling all officers to cover up their uniforms when travelling to
work or leaving police stations was issued to all forces yesterday by the
College of Policing.

It comes after an ISIS attack on the Armed Forces Day parade was reportedly
thwarted after an alleged plotter unwittingly revealed the plot to bomb the
event in Merton, south west London to a reporter from The Sun, and after a
terrorist gunman is said to have deliberately targeted Brits in the horrific
Tunisian hotel attack.

The advice follows similar guidance given to British soldiers not to wear their
uniform outside barracks and not let strangers know they are in the Armed
Forces.

Read more: Follow the latest updates following the Tunisia hotel attack here

Government officials are reported to have detected an increased threat of
jihadists plotting to target soldiers and police.

Police say they have now tightened security at major events - including Armed
Forced Forces Day and the Pride London gay and lesbian festival - following the
terror attacks in France, Kuwait and Tunisia yesterday .

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "The police, together with our security
partners, remain alert to terrorist threats that may manifest here or where
individuals overseas may seek to direct or inspire others to commit attacks in
and against the UK.

"It is always helpful when journalists share with us information, as The Sun did
in this case, that could indicate terrorist or criminal activity.

"Attacks yesterday show the global nature of terrorism and the threat level in
the UK from international terrorism remains unchanged at severe.

"While the UK threat level from international terrorism remains severe, we would
like to reassure the public that we constantly review security plans for public
events, taking into account specific intelligence and the wider threat.

"Our priority is the safety and security for all those attending or involved,
the public are encouraged to continue with their plans to attend or take part in
events as normal.

"We would also like to reiterate our long-standing advice to remain vigilant and
alert. As ever we would urge the public to get in touch to report anything
suspicious by calling the confidential anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789 321 or
in an emergency by calling 999."

Fusilier Lee Rigby was beheaded by killers Michael Adebolajo and Michael
Adebowale near his army barracks in Woolwich in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:39 AM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Thomson cancels all holidays to terror-hit country as mass
exodus of tourists begins;
Several flights have already begun arriving at Manchester Airport this morning
as the company arranges to bring around 2,500 holidaymakers home

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 781 words


Travel agents Thomson have cancelled all holidays to Tunisia for the next week
as a mass exodus of British tourists gets underway.

Thomson and First Choice said several of the people killed and injured during
yesterday's massacre were their customers and that they were working closely
with the local authorities to confirm the exact details of casualties.

Several flights have already begun arriving at Manchester Airport this morning
as the company arranges to bring around 2,500 holidaymakers home.

Peter Long, joint chief executive of the TUI Group which includes travel firms
Thomson and First Choice, said he was "deeply, deeply shocked" at events in
Tunisia, continuing: "Our whole organisation is reeling with pain to see the
suffering that is taking place in Tunisia with our customers."

Speaking outside the company's office in Crawley, West Sussex, Mr Long said the
company had expressed its "deepest sympathies" for the "trauma" that its
customers had experienced in Tunisia.

He added: "We are doing our very, very best to look after our guests who are
still in Tunisia."

Read more: Follow the latest updates following the Tunisia hotel attack here

The company had 6,400 holiday-makers in Tunisia. Of these, 1,000 had been flown
home last night and this morning on repatriation flights, and more would be
returning today.

However, the company was unable to confirm how many of its customers had been
killed or injured in the tragedy.

Passengers were seen arriving at Manchester airport's Terminal 2 building in
tears as they were led away alongside a visible police presence.

Two ambulances were also parked outside the arrivals hall.

Thomson had hundreds of customers staying at the RIU Imperial Marhaba and the
RIU Bellevue hotels in Sousse - where 40 people were gunned down in an Islamic
State terror attack yesterday.

A Thomson spokesman said: "The whole of Thomson and First Choice are deeply
shocked and truly saddened by the events and we are grateful to our staff on the
ground and the emergency services who are working hard in an incredibly
challenging environment.

"Due to this terrible tragedy, we are bringing all our customers staying in Port
El Kantaoui and Sousse home this evening.

"Ten Thomson Airways flights are travelling to Tunisia to bring approximately
2,500 Thomson and First Choice customers home.

"We will also be cancelling all Thomson and First Choice holidays to Tunisia for
the next week.

"Amendments can be made to bookings on holidays to Tunisia until 24th July and
we are scheduling three extra flights to Cape Verde, Rhodes and Gran Canaria for
customers wishing to change their holidays."

Meanwhile, Thomas Cook has said it has arranged for an additional aircraft to
fly to Tunisia today, which would be used to fly home customers wanting to the
UK as soon as possible.

The company is offering customers due to travel to Tunisia up to and including
July 4 the opportunity to cancel their holiday free of charge.

It is also offering to amend bookings to Tunisia free of charge for holidays
departing up to and including July 31.

A spokesman said: "We can confirm that the reported hotels are not offered by
Thomas Cook, and that none of our customers or staff were in residence at the
time of the incident.

"However, we do currently have customers staying in other parts of the resort,
and our experienced teams on the ground are continuing to offer every support to
them and their families at this difficult time.

"Thomas Cook would like to extend its most sincere condolences to the family and
friends of those affected."

Current Foreign Office advice urges UK travellers to avoid visiting the south
tip and west of the country, and only travel to other areas where necessary.

This is likely to be updated this afternoon to include other regions, including
those visited by tourists.

The Association of British Travel Agents said tour operators are also holding
urgent discussions on whether to pull the plug on all holidays - and cancel
future visits.

A spokeswoman said: "There are decisions being made at the moment. Tour
operators are in conversation with ourselves and the Foreign Office as we gather
more information.

"There are not going to be any snap decisions, but if anyone is due to travel
today or tomorrow we would advise people to get in touch with their tour
operator.

"People travelling after that or have flights booked should wait to call their
tour operator as the phone lines will be very busy, and the priority will be
with people flying out today and tomorrow."

The Foreign Office has urged anyone concerned about family or friends to call
its helpline on 0207 008 0000.

For the latest updates on the situation in Tunisia, follow our live blog .

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:17 AM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: How terror rampage which left 39 dead was reported around
the world;
Newspaper front pages across the globe lead with tragic pictures of victims on
the beach at the Marhhaba Imperial Hotel in Sousse

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 278 words


Newspaper across the globe are leading the tragic pictures of the victims of
yesterday's terror attack in Tunisia.

The majority of UK front pages feature shocking images of casualties on the
beach at the Marhaba Imperial Hotel in Sousse while others focus on the dramatic
arrest of one of the gunman's suspected accomplices.

A total of 39 people were killed in the gun rampage and Tunisian prime minister
Habib Essid has said the 'majority' of the victims were British tourists.

Meanwhile, the majority Irish newspapers have focused on the death of Irish
mum-of-two Lorna Carty, 37, who was gunned down while on holiday with her
husband at the resort.

The Irish Sun leads with the headline 'Irish nurse killed by I.S' while the
Irish Times reads 'Irish woman among 38 killed in gun attack on Tunisian
resort'.

Germans and Belgians were also among those killed in the shootings.

Belgian newspaper Le Soir went with the headline Vendredi Noir - meaning 'Black
Friday'.

As at least one gunman opened fire with a Kalashnikov, she and Matthew were
lying on sunbeds like hundreds of others.

Seconds later scores of holidaymakers lay dying .

A gunman, posing as a swimmer, used a beach umbrella to hide his Kalashnikov
before starting the slaughter. One hotel owner said a speedboat and a jetski
were used to get him ashore.

Zohra Driss, owner of the Marhaba Imperial Hotel where the massacre took place,
said the gunman had started firing from the beach before moving to the hotel
swimming pool.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said because the resort is popular with
holidaymakers from the UK "we have to assume that a high proportion of those
killed and injured will have been British"

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 12:04 AM GMT

ISIS atrocities in Tunisia, France and Kuwait mark escalation in terror -
Britain could be next;
An attack on our streets, shopping malls, football grounds or transport systems
is highly likely but counter-terror officers do not know where it will happen

BYLINE: By Chris Hughes

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 255 words


The terror attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait mark a sinister escalation in
Islamic State-inspired violence and the network's global campaign of evil.

The bloodshed on three continents - coming, unbelievably, during the Islamic
holy month of Ramadan - marked around a year since IS declared a caliphate ruled
ruthlessly by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi's death cult.

All three attacks bear the cruel trademarks of IS-inspired beheadings, the
indiscriminate murder of holidaymakers and headline-grabbing bombings and gun
rampages.

Tunisia has suffered spiralling anarchy as it made the difficult transition into
democracy following the Arab Spring revolt four years ago.

Below: Terror attack on hotel in Sousse

Terror attack on hotel in Sousse

Its tourism trade is crucial to an ailing economy and IS's spite has yet again
dealt a murderous blow to that lifeline.

In Kuwait the attack on Shia Muslims marks Sunni Muslim IS's loathing of the
sect.

In France, apparent IS links to the attack mean the group are firmly established
in Europe, and even though France was braced for another attack there was little
it could do to stop it.

The only reason Britain has not seen bloodshed this week is that countless plots
have been stopped by police and MI5. The threat level remains severe.

This means an attack on our streets, shopping malls, football grounds or
transport systems is highly likely - but our counter-terror officers do not yet
know where it will happen.

Below: Terror attack in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier

Terror attack in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 11:27 PM GMT

Gulf states share shock of terror attack on mosque in Kuwait;
Neighbouring states fear further violence during Ramadan as the holy month is
marked with deadly bombings

BYLINE: Martin Chulov

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 716 words


The aftermath of the attack on a Shia mosque in Kuwait has resonated well beyond
its borders into neighbouring Gulf countries, which have long shared both its
worldview and its fears that Islamic State is stalking them.

On Saturday, Kuwaiti officials announced arrests linked to the Friday blast at
the Imam al-Sadiq mosque, which killed 27 and maimed 200 more, as security at
places of worship from Sharjah to Doha was tightened and rhetoric against the
group intensified across the region.

Officials in Kuwait had long said an attack of the type carried out during
Friday prayers would be very difficult to stop. The fact that it took place in
the holy month of Ramadan, when worshippers were likely to be less on their
guard than usual, made it even more so.

Isis had made no secret of its intentions to launch attacks during Ramadan, with
its spokesman, Abu Mohammed al-Adnani, releasing a speech earlier last week
calling for strikes in the remaining three weeks of the fasting month, which
would lead to greater blessings in the afterlife.

Kuwait is home to one of the largest Shia minorities in the Gulf Cooperation
Council (GCC) and has often been named by Isis leaders as a "legitimate" target.
Shias have been the most prominent foe of Isis throughout the past three years
of the group's latest incarnation and during the decade prior to that, following
the ousting of Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, whose demise led to a loss of
influence among the country's Sunnis.

However, in the eyes of Isis, Kuwait's sins go further than harbouring Shias;
the desert state maintained one of the largest US military bases in the world
throughout the occupation of Iraq and has been a supporter of the air campaign
launched last August against the terror group, even though it had not
contributed military forces.

The UAE, Bahrain and Qatar have sent jets to bomb Isis targets in Iraq, although
their contributions had begun to wane by late last year. Most had avoided
publicising their involvement, with the risk of provoking some kind of backlash
a central consideration.

The GCC views Isis as an existential threat to its members and is especially
fearful of Isis being seen as a vehicle to advance political aims if states are
unable to do so. Since 2013, Isis has used the area it controls in Iraq and
Syria to consolidate a foothold in the Middle East and train militants sent back
to their home countries to wreak havoc.

Up to 800 Kuwaitis are thought to have travelled to join Isis, and several
hundred are believed to have returned. It is not yet known whether Friday's
suicide bomber was a returned fighter, a homegrown local or a member of the
group from elsewhere.

However, Isis is making much play of producing battle-hardened ideologues who
will transplant the virulent ideology it espouses into other parts of the Middle
East and north Africa. It already has active followers in Egypt, Yemen, Libya
and Tunisia, all of whom have sworn allegiance to the Isis leader, Abu Bakr
al-Baghdadi, and has been trying to gain momentum in the Gulf states.

Of all the Gulf autocracies, Kuwait is considered to have one of the most
efficient security structures. The UAE, though, is considered more formidable.
Its rulers have feared a threat from political Islam, a stance that has placed
them at odds with Qatar, which supports the Muslim Brotherhood across the
region.

The common threat from Isis has, however, led them to set differences aside and
present a united front against precisely the co-ordinated three-continent
spectacular carried out on Friday. The tight timing of the strikes and their
geographical spread make it highly likely they were centrally choreographed -
something the organisation has not been able to do until now.

"They are planning something big," a source close to Isis warned the Observer
last week. "They now have capabilities that they didn't have six months ago and
they are determined to show you."

The source said that, while the US-led airstrikes had killed several dozen
leaders and made communication between cells more difficult, they had not
stopped Isis from securing strategic ground and were acting as a rallying call
for fighters around the region. "They like using the message that Muslims are
under attack from the Americans again. It helps them recruit people."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBONS


                   Copyright 2015 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 5:25 PM BST

DALAI LAMA CONDEMNS TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Neil Lancefield, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 275 words


The Dalai Lama has condemned the terrorist attacks in Tunisia, France and Kuwait
as ``unthinkable'', and revealed he does not believe the atrocities will cease
in his lifetime.

The 79-year-old Tibetan called on younger people to work hard to achieve a more
compassionate world.

Speaking after landing at London's Heathrow Airport ahead of his appearance at
Glastonbury Festival, he said: ``This killing is our own creation.

``Nobody wants to die, everybody loves their own life and everybody has the
right to a life.

``Human being killing another human being - in some cases they use their
different religious faith (as a motive) - that is unthinkable.

``All major world religious traditions are actually I think the source of the
practice of love, forgiveness, tolerance.

``That very factor is now becoming the source of violence, it's unthinkable.''

The Dalai Lama said there was too much emphasis on the ``secondary level of
differences'' - faith, colour, nationality - rather than the fact that we are
all human beings.

The exiled Tibetan spiritual leader said it would be ``very difficult'' to
achieve an immediate solution to stop the terrorist attacks.

``I'm fully committed until my death to the promotion of the sense of oneness of
the seven billion human beings,'' he said.

``I don't think a positive result from that kind of effort will materialise
within my lifetime, but we have to start.

``The people whose age is below 30, that I usually call the generation of the
21st century, let them start this work. Within their lifetime the world will be
happier, more compassionate, more harmonious.

``I believe that is very possible. We have to work hard.''

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Regional Press Releases: Ireland

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 8:13 PM BST

BRITONS TARGETED IN TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Nina Massey Press Association

SECTION: PA Newswire: Ireland

LENGTH: 293 words


Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood has described the Sousse tragedy as the ``most
significant terrorist attack'' on Britons since July 7, 2005.

Here is a list of some of the other atrocities committed against Britons.

Brighton Bombing: On October 12 1984 the IRA bombed the Grand Hotel in Brighton,
killing five people and injuring 34 in the attack aimed at prime minister
Margaret Thatcher and her cabinet.

Lockerbie bombing: Abdelbaset al-Megrahi remains the only person convicted for
the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over the south of Scotland on December 21 1988.
A total of 270 people were killed.

Omagh bombing: On August 15 1998, 29 victims - who included a woman pregnant
with twins - died after a dissident republican car bomb detonated in Omagh town
centre on a busy Saturday afternoon.

It was the single bloodiest terrorist attack in the history of the Northern
Ireland Troubles and came only months after the signing of the historic Good
Friday peace accord.

Bali bombings: Twenty-eight Britons were among the 202 people killed on October
12 2002 when the al Qaida-linked Jemaah Islamiyah group detonated bombs at two
packed nightspots on the Indonesian island.

7/7 attack: UK-born suicide bombers Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer,
22, Hasib Hussain, 18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, detonated devices on three Tube
trains and a bus, causing carnage and killing 52 people on July 7 2005.

Glasgow Airport attack: On Saturday June 30 2007 a blazing jeep loaded with
propane cannisters was driven into a crowded Glasgow Airport.

Woolwich attack: Fusilier Lee Rigby, 25 - a drummer and machine gunner with the
2nd Battalion Royal Regiment of Fusiliers - was killed outside his barracks in
Woolwich, south-east London, on May 22 2013 by two Islamic extremists.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

SLAUGHTERED ON THE BEACH;
37 die in Tunisian holiday terror attack High proportion of victims will be
British Panic on the beaches as gunman sprays bullets at innocent holidaymakers

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 941 words


AT LEAST five British tourists were among 37 people slaughtered by a terrorist
gunman at a beach resort in Tunisia yesterday.

The attacker concealed a Kalashnikov assault rifle in a beach umbrella and
wandered among sunbeds before opening fire indiscriminately.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond last night warned that the death toll could
rise. He said a "high proportion" of the casualties were expected to be British
"because of the nature of the resort".

The terrorist, a 23-year-old Tunisian student thought to be linked to Islamic
State, was believed to have used a jet ski or inflatable boat to land on the
packed beach.

Among the victims, an English boy aged 16 was said to have witnessed the murder
of both his parents and grandmother. He was being treated last night for gunshot
wounds.

Parents desperately tried to find their children and flee as the terrorist, who
also had explosives, wrought havoc. As tourists ran for their lives the gunman
followed them, walking into a hotel lobby and opening fire.

Matthew James, from Wales, was fighting for his life last night after being shot
three times protecting his fiancee from the attack.

Security services exchanged gun-fire with the attacker and killed him. A
suspected accomplice was arrested nearby and dragged away as a distraught woman
screamed at him and tried to attack him with her fists.

Tunisian officials last night said the death toll included British, Irish,
German and Belgian citizens. An Irish woman in her 50s was said to be among the
dead

A total of 36 people were wounded in the bloody assault. Thirteen Britons are
being treated for their injuries and a 60-year-old man has died, according to
hospital reports.

One victim was named last night as Irish mother-of-two Lorna Carty, who was in
her 50s.

Tennis coach Ellie Makin, 22, from Ripon, Yorkshire, said: "I was on the beach
when I saw a guy walking around with an umbrella.

"All of a sudden he dropped the umbrella and started shooting.

"There was screaming and people were running. I saw a guy shot in the stomach
and then another in the head. I was terrified, overwhelmed, shaken up and
shocked."

Ms Makin's friend Debbie Horsfall, from Huddersfield, Yorkshire, said the gunman
was next to them on a sunbed. She said: "He was to the right of me because we
were on the last sunbed on the beach.

"I got up and just happened to look right and I saw a gun and an umbrella being
dropped.

"Then he started firing to the right hand side of us. If he had fired to the
left I don't know what would have happened, but we were very lucky." Ms Horsfall
added: "We got up and ran as fast as we could to our hotel reception. We just
saw panic, everyone just got up and fled."

The pair gathered in the foyer with others in the foyer but were in danger again
when the gunman fired shots into the building.

Ms Makin said. "A guy ran up into the hotel and started shooting again and
everyone fled. He was just below us, if we'd have walked down the stairs we'd
have met him halfway.

"We got split up. I ran to a room upstairs with somebody and their kids and we
hid."

Ridha Jegham, manager of the Royal Kenz Hotel, said he saw terrorists arrive at
the beach on a jet ski and Zodiac inflatable boat.

His account was backed up by the manager of the El Mouradi Palm Marina hotel,
named only as Hamouda, who said guests saw two gunmen come from the sea and
attack the beach.

Steve Johnson, a guest at the Imperial Marhaba, said: "We heard what we thought
was fireworks but it was soon pretty obvious that it was not fireworks, it was
firearms being discharged, and people screaming and starting to run from along
the beach towards us.

"Me and my friend said: 'That's guns, let's go' and we shouted to everybody
around us who joined the sort of mass rush from the beach. People running in all
directions around us."

He said the authorities were "removing a number of bodies from around the pool
area".

Olivia Leathley, 24, a chef from Manchester, was inside the Bellevue Park Hotel
with her boyfriend Mike Jones, when she heard shots from the lobby. She said:
"We heard a shot from inside the hotel. Somebody just shouted 'run!' so we
sprinted off in all directions.

"The machine-gun fire was so close, it sounded like it was right behind us. I
was then on the phone to my dad, Glenn, screaming at the top of my lungs and
telling him "I love you, I love you."

"My dad was saying 'I love you' and shouting prayers down the phone, begging
'Lord, protect them.' We eventually found an office building and hid in a room.
As soon as I got somewhere safe, I threw up."

Tunisia has seen militant Islamists gain strength since the overthrow of
long-serving ruler Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali in a popular uprising in 2011.

Tension has been high since an attack in Tunis on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 23 people, including British solicitor Sally Jane Adey, 57.
The Foreign Office yesterday warned British tourists to stay indoors and contact
tour operators for advice.

Maajid Nawaz, of the counterextremist Quilliam Foundation, said: "I think what
has been happening in France is connected to what has been happening in Tunisia
and elsewhere.

It appears to be at the moment a co-ordinated attack by IS on soft targets
across the world."

Holiday firms Thomas Cook, Thomson and First Choice were working last night to
provide assistance to the people affected by the atrocity.

Last night it emerged the terrorist blamed for the massacre took courses at a
mosque not controlled by the state where he rubbed shoulders with salafi jihadis
in the town of Kairouan.

BEHEADING HORROR: Page 7 OPINION: Page 14

'Then there was screaming and a sort of mass rush from the beach'

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAMATIC MOMENT A SUSPECT IS ARRESTEDImage of massacre gunman in street
Victims are rushed from the beach to waiting ambulances after attackOnlookers
screaming in anger at a man under arrest as a possible accomplice, above; a
holidaymaker is carried to safety, left, Irish tourist Lorna Carty, right, was
confirmed killed; wounded woman helped away, far right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

5 Britons killed in Tunisia beach terror attack

BYLINE: Jane Bradley

LENGTH: 1338  words


A GUNMAN who killed at least 38 people - including British and Irish tourists -
as they sunbathed in a Tunisian beach resort hid a gun in an umbrella and
disguised himself as a holidaymaker, Tunisian authorities have revealed.

The attacker - believed to be an Islamist student from the central region of the
North African country - opened fire on tourists holidaying at a popular beach
­resort in south-eastern Tunisia.

The worst terror incident in Tunisia's history came on the same day a man was
found decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamist extremists on a French
factory and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed, killing at least 25 people.
Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked, they came after the
so-called Islamic State (IS) called on its  followers "to make Ramadan a month
of calamities for the non-believers".

Eyewitnesses in Tunisia reported people fleeing as the attacker, who had hidden
his ­Kalashnikov under a beach umbrella and wore swimwear to blend in, fired on
­holidaymakers staying at hotels in the beach area of Sousse.

Tunisian security forces said the gunman had entered a hotel through the pool
area, shooting people as he went. Hundreds of people were believed to be
sunbathing on the beach when the attack took place, at around noon local time.

Tunisia's health ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons,
Tunisians, Germans and Belgians. The Irish foreign office has confirmed that one
of those killed was a female Irish national. Thirty-six others have been
wounded.

The interior ministry had previously said two attackers were involved, including
one who fled the scene, but has since said a lone gunman was responsible. He was
reportedly shot dead.

The incident is the second terrorist attack at Sousse, coming less than two
years after a failed attack in October 2013.

o Anyone concerned about friends or relatives in Tunisia can contact the Foreign
Office on 020 7008 0000

Scottish holidaymakers Diane Boyd, from East Kilbride, and her partner David
Fleming, from Coatbridge, are staying in a hotel next to the beach in Sousse.

Ms Boyd said: "We were on the beach sunbathing when he heard sudden noise which
sounded like gunfire.

"Everyone was running very quickly from the beach into their hotel so we just
got up and ran with them and went into the reception area, which was all quite
hectic. We ended up going up to our room for about an hour and from our balcony
we could see the beach. We could see armed policemen, we could see helicopters,
ambulances and coastguards."

Mr Fleming said: "We heard a barrage of shots. Originally I just thought it was
fireworks, but then people started running. So we just got up and ran with them.
It was quite scary, to be honest."

The couple arrived in the resort, which is popular with British and Irish
tourists, on Sunday.

Olivia Leathley, 24, a chef from Stockport, was with her boyfriend Mike Jones in
her room at the Riu Bellevue Park hotel when she heard "loud bangs" from the
beach. She said: "We heard all these really loud bangs and we joked it was
probably the reps letting off fireworks. We saw all these people running in from
the beach.

"We didn't really know what was happening so we came down to the lobby to find
out what was going on and they said Everybody stay here, we'll let you know what
is going on'.

"We found this girl whose husband had been shot in the stomach in front of her.
She got dragged away by hotel reps trying to get her to safety but she was a
complete mess. She was in hysterics."

She added: "We were all waiting in the lobby, a few hundred of us thinking, what
should we do, waiting for someone to give us instructions. Then, all of a
sudden, from the level just below the lobby there was a huge sound of loads of
machine gun fire and one of the reps just said run'.

"I was crying and we heard the machine gun fire and it was so loud and it seemed
like it was just behind us, it seemed so close. There were about eight of us out
the front just running towards the street then another rep said, Not that way
it's not safe, go that way', so we ran to the left and found this little office
building on the hotel site and we ran in there and got to a room with no windows
and just crouched and waited until they said it was OK."

Secretary of state for security Rafik Chelly said the gunman had disguised
himself as a tourist.

He said: "He is Tunisian, originally from the Kairouan region [in central
Tunisia]. He is a student.

"This person was not known [to us]," he added. "He entered by the beach, dressed
like someone who was going to swim, and he had a beach umbrella with his gun in
it. Then when he came to the beach he used his weapon."

Gary Pine, a British man staying at the resort, tweeted minutes after the
attack: "Gunshots on the beach, mass panic here. Confusion rife."

Two hours later, he reported that helicopters were circling above his hotel, the
El Mouradi Palm Marina.

Mr Pine said his 22-year-old son had just come out of the sea after a game of
volleyball when the attacks occurred. He said there had been a large bang which
holidaymakers had thought was firecrackers and a mass exodus from the beach as
people rushed to safety.

"You could see then quite quickly the panic about 100 yards away, and so then
people started exiting the beach pretty quickly, but only when you can start
hearing bullets around your ears did you start to realise it was something more
serious than firecrackers," he said.

"We do consider ourselves to be lucky in that of the hotels lined up that all
access the same beach area, it seems to be the two hotels to our left and
literally 100 yards down that seem to have been hit," he said.

Tunisia's president, Beji Caid Essebsi, said: "We note that Tunisia faces an
international movement. It cannot respond alone to this.

"On the same day at the same time France has been the target of such an
operation, and Kuwait too. This proves the need for a global strategy and that
all democratic countries must now join forces."

According to the Foreign Office, 424,707 British nationals visited Tunisia in
2014.

A statement from the Foreign Office said: "Gunmen attacked the Imperial Hotel
and Hotel Club Riu Bellevue at Port El Kantaoui, near Sousse. A number of people
have been killed and injured. A British embassy crisis team is on its way to the
area."

o The Foreign Office has set up an emergency number for friends and family of
those who may have been affected, on 020 7008 0000.

Attack latest in string of terrorism incidents

The latest attacks come just months after gunmen attacked a museum in Tunisia's
capital.

On 18 March this year, two gunmen opened fire on guests at the Bardo Museum, a
popular tourist attraction in Tunis, in an attack that left 23 dead and 22
injured, and ended with a seige of the building by Tunisian security forces,
both gunmen being killed after a firefight with armoured police.

The incident was the first major terrorist attack in Tunisia since the popular
uprising in 2011 sparked the "Arab Spring" revolts in Egypt, Syria, and Libya.

The attacks took place as Tunisian lawmakers held a committee meeting in
government building connected to the museum, leading to the evacuation of the
entire parliament.

Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attacks,  calling the terrorists
"knights of the caliphate" and praising their "blessed invasion of one of the
dens of infidels and vice in Muslim Tunisia".

The majority of the victims of the attack on the museum were tourists, with
British mother Sally Adley killed, and Japanese, Italian, German, Polish, French
and Spanish also among the dead.

Meanwhile, a suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in
Sousse in October 2013.

SEE ALSO:

o
{http://www.scotsman.com/news/world/man-decapitated-in-attack-on-french-factory-
1-3813679| Man decapitated in attack on French factory | Link to article}

o
{http://www.scotsman.com/news/world/explosion-rips-through-shiite-mosque-in-kuwa
it-1-3813846 | Explosion rips through Shiite mosque in Kuwait | Link to article}

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Tunisia terror attack: Most of dead were British'

LENGTH: 1264  words


THE majority of those killed when a gunman opened fire on holidaymakers were
British, Tunisia's prime minister has reportedly said.

Eight of the 38 dead have so far been confirmed as Britons by Foreign Secretary
Philip Hammond, as he warned that number could rise due to the popularity of the
area with tourists from the UK.

Tunisian PM Habib Essid has since reportedly told a news conference that the
majority of victims were British, followed by Germans, Belgians and other
nationalities.

Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack in which a
young man pulled out a Kalashnikov hidden in a beach parasol and shot at
sunbathers in Sousse.

Mr Hammond said yesterday: "We have to assume that a high proportion of those
killed and injured will have been British".

SITE Intel Group, which monitors the jihadist threat, tweeted: "#ISIS claimed
credit for the Tunisia hotel attack in Sousse and identified the attacker as Abu
Yahya al-Qayrawani."

An Irish mother-of-two who was shot dead was named locally as Lorna Carty, from
Robinstown, Co Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

David Cameron said the UK stands "shoulder to shoulder" with Tunisia in the
battle against terrorism.

The worst such attack in Tunisia's history came on the same day a man was found
decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory
and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked they come after the
so-called Islamic State called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of
calamities for the nonbelievers".

o Anyone concerned about friends or relatives in Tunisia can contact the Foreign
Office on 020 7008 0000

Afzal Ashraf, a consultant fellow at defence and security think tank the Royal
United Services Institute, said the attacks may be linked to the anniversary of
the declaration of an IS caliphate in Iraq and Syria, which is on Monday.

"If you look at these attacks, and what has been happening over the last 48
hours, attacks by IS in various parts of Syria and Iraq, they want to make a bit
of a splash, to get the message out, we're still here - it's a year since we
declared this thing, and you haven't got rid of us'. They see it as a great
victory, because the world has combined against them."

Mr Hammond chaired an emergency Cobra meeting yesterday, and another one will be
held this morning to look at the UK's response to the three attacks.

A consular team is in Sousse, and two rapid response teams were travelling to
the region overnight, he said.

Bodies covered in blankets were strewn across the beach and medical staff used
sun loungers as stretchers to carry away the dead and injured.

At least 36 people were wounded in the attack.

Despite initially believing there was more than one gunman, the Tunisian
authorities later said the killer was thought to be a young student who had not
previously been known to their security services.

His killing spree on the beach at the Riu Bellevue Park ended when he was shot
dead by police. A bomb was found on his body.

British tourist Ellie Makin, from Ripon, North Yorkshire, who was on holiday
with her friend Debbie Horsfall from Huddersfield, said the gunman was next to
them on a sunbed.

She told ITV News: "He was to the right of me because we were on the last sunbed
on the beach. All of a sudden I got up anyway and just happened to look right
and all I saw was a gun and an umbrella being dropped.

"Then he started firing to the right hand side of us. If he had fired to the
left I don't know what would have happened, but we were very lucky."

Olivia Leathley, 24, was with her boyfriend Mike Jones in her room at the hotel
when she heard "loud bangs" from the beach.

They ran to the lobby where they found a woman whose husband had been shot in
the stomach in front of her.

Miss Leathley said: "All she said was that he'd been shot and that he was there
bleeding on the beach and he was just saying, I love you I love you', and then
his eyes rolled back into his head. But at that point she was dragged away by
people who were trying to keep her safe."

She was thought to be referring to Saera Wilson, who later told the BBC that her
fiance Matthew James used his body as a human shield.

She said gas engineer Mr James, 30, from Trehafod, near Pontypridd, was hit in
the shoulder, chest and hip.

Speaking from the hospital where Mr James is being treated, Ms Wilson said: "He
took a bullet for me. I owe him my life because he threw himself in front of me
when the shooting started.

"He was covered in blood from the shots, but he just told me to run away.

"He told me: I love you babe. But just go - tell our children that their daddy
loves them'.

"It was the bravest thing I've ever known."

Those killed are more likely to be foreign as the local Muslim population is
less likely to go to the beach during the holy month of Ramadan.

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists including a Briton.

A suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in Sousse in
October 2013, while 21 people lost their lives in an attack in the country
earlier this year.

Tunisia has undergone unprecedented social and political change since the 2011
uprisings and the Foreign Office says there is a 'high'' threat from terrorism.

Sousse is on the east coast, about 87 miles south of the capital, Tunis. Around
1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn by the hotels, sandy beaches
and culture.

o The Foreign Office has set up an emergency number for friends and family of
those who may have been affected, on 020 7008 0000.

Attack latest in string of terrorism incidents

The latest attacks come just months after gunmen attacked a museum in Tunisia's
capital.

On 18 March this year, two gunmen opened fire on guests at the Bardo Museum, a
popular tourist attraction in Tunis, in an attack that left 23 dead and 22
injured, and ended with a seige of the building by Tunisian security forces,
both gunmen being killed after a firefight with armoured police.

The incident was the first major terrorist attack in Tunisia since the popular
uprising in 2011 sparked the "Arab Spring" revolts in Egypt, Syria, and Libya.

The attacks took place as Tunisian lawmakers held a committee meeting in
government building connected to the museum, leading to the evacuation of the
entire parliament.

Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attacks,  calling the terrorists
"knights of the caliphate" and praising their "blessed invasion of one of the
dens of infidels and vice in Muslim Tunisia".

The majority of the victims of the attack on the museum were tourists, with
British mother Sally Adley killed, and Japanese, Italian, German, Polish, French
and Spanish also among the dead.

Meanwhile, a suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in
Sousse in October 2013.

SEE ALSO:

o
{http://www.scotsman.com/news/world/man-decapitated-in-attack-on-french-factory-
1-3813679| Man decapitated in attack on French factory | Link to article}

o
{http://www.scotsman.com/news/world/explosion-rips-through-shiite-mosque-in-kuwa
it-1-3813846 | Explosion rips through Shiite mosque in Kuwait | Link to article}

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Tunisia terror attack: 15 Britons confirmed dead

BYLINE: Martyn Mclaughlin

LENGTH: 984  words


THE Tunisian beach massacre has been described as "the most significant
terrorist attack on the British people" for a decade, as 15 nationals were
confirmed among the dead.

The death toll of the atrocity, which left a further 25 Britons wounded, looks
set to rise, as relatives of those unaccounted for wait for news.

Some 39 people were killed when student Seifeddine Rezgui targeted western
tourists with a Kalashnikov he had hidden in a beach umbrella. Witnesses said he
was laughing and joking as he sprayed a hotel beachfront with gunfire. The
23-year-old was shot dead by police.

As the Foreign Office confirmed that 15 Britons were killed in the tragedy in
the popular resort of Sousse, airlines launched a vast effort to bring tourists
home.

While counter-terror police from Scotland Yard travelled to the north African
country to assist with the investigation, harrowing stories of survival and
rescue continued to emerge.

Tunisian officials have confirmed the nationalities of 10 of the dead so far,
with a Belgian and a German identified alongside the British victims. A further
39 people were wounded, 21 of whom have since left hospital after receiving
treatment.

As authorities continued to identify the deceased, Prime Minister David Cameron
said he was "afraid that the British public need to be prepared for the fact
that many of those killed were British."

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon described the attack as a "horrifying and
senseless act of violence" and said its perpetrators "do not speak for Muslims."
She added: "Their actions in the name of Islam are a perversion of that faith."

She said that while there were no confirmed victims from Scotland, "we must
prepare ourselves for that possibility."

Foreign Office minister Tobias Ellwood confirmed the death toll stood at 15 and
said the incident represented "the most significant terrorist attack on the
British people" since July 7 2005, when 52 people were killed in a series of
attacks on London.

The first BritIsh victim identified following the attack was named locally as
Carly Lovett from Gainsborough in Lincolnshire.

The 24-year-old fashion blogger, who had only been engaged a few months, was
with her fiancee, and they were due to return home yesterday,

Another British victim was named as Adrian Evans, who worked for Sandwell
Council in the West Midlands as a manager in the gas services department.

The Irish government confirmed a nurse from the village of Robinstown, northwest
of Dublin, was among the dead.

Lorna Carty had taken her husband, Declan, on holiday as part of his
recuperation from heart surgery.

Family friends said the mother-of-two arrived ahead of her husband at the beach,
where she suffered fatal gunshot wounds.

Rezgui was a student at Kairouan University and came from the town in the poor
central region of Gaafour, Tunisia's prime minister, Habib Essid, confirmed
yesterday. Rezgui was not previously known to authorities and had never
travelled abroad, he added. According to reports he was 23-years-old and
studying aviation.

The Site Intelligence Group reported that Isis had claimed responsibility for
Friday's attack, on its Twitter account, referring to the gunman by his jihadi
pseudonym Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani. Isis Twitter accounts have published a
photograph purporting to be Rezgui posing between two Kalashnikovs and smiling.

In the wake of Tunisia's worst ever terror attack, Essid yesterday announced a
string of new security measures including closing renegade mosques and calling
up army reservists.

The UK government today held a meeting of its emergency Cobra committee, while
senior Scottish ministers took part in a Scottish Government resilience meeting
along with senior representatives from Police Scotland.

While several airlines laid on extra flights to help return thousands of British
tourists home, a scattering of foreign tourists were still wading in the sea on
the beach in front of the hotel where the attack took place.

Police boats patrolled the waters while officers on horseback rode along the
beach and some holidaymakers parasailed behind speedboats.

A German tourist laid flowers at the edge of the scene of the attack and shed
tears for the victims.

While many tourists have left, Welsh couple Angela Chambers and Peter Phillips
said they declined their tour operator's offer to take them to the airport last
night.

"I think we feel safer here than last night going to the airport," said
Chambers. Phillips added that "we want to see our holiday out."

Survivors recalled the moment Rezgui opened fire. One holidaymaker, Keith
Hawkes, 70, ran toward the flashpoint to come to the aid of those who had been
shot, at one point coming within a few feet of Rezgui.

The former Gurkha, from Somerset, said: "Why I didn't shoot me, I'll never know.
It was my training, we had to go and help them. I saw the gunman, I almost
passed within feet of him trying to get to all those dead bodies."

The grandson of a man missing in Tunisia has said the family have not heard from
him since Thursday when the couple called home and said they were having a
"great time."

John Welch, 74, from Corsham in Wiltshire, and his partner Eileen Swannack, 70,
were staying at the RIU Imperial Marhaba.

Daniel Welch, 29, who lives in Swindon, said as time goes on the family "can
only expect the worst".

Scotland Yard said officers have travelled to Tunisia to help investigate the
killings and officers are also interviewing tourists returning at British
airports.

Assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, national policing lead for
counter-terrorism, said: "We've deployed a large number of officers out to
Tunisia, both in terms of our own evidence gathering - forensic experts, helping
the Tunisia authorities - and also we've got experts in family liaison
assisting."

He said it was "fairly clear" the location of the Tunisian attack was chosen
because of the number of westerners present in the area.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STTS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 05:15 AM GMT

Triple Terror Attacks: What You Need To Know

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 647 words



HIGHLIGHT: After a day of terror in France, Tunisia and Kuwait left dozens dead,
here is what we know so far.


  :: Tunisia

:: At least 38 people have been killed by one gunman in the Tunisian beach
resort of Sousse.

:: Tunisian Prime Minister Habib Essid has said that most of those killed are
British, while Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond confirmed there at least five
dead Britons.

::  Irish mother-of-two Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath, has been named
as one of the victims.

:: Tunisians, Germans, Belgians and French have also been killed.

:: At least 36 people have been injured.

:: The Islamic State, which urged its followers to escalate attacks during
Ramadan, has claimed responsibility on a Twitter account.

:: One gunman has been killed, the country's interior ministry says.

:: British tourists were among those who barricaded themselves in hotel rooms as
the attacker shot at people on the beach.

:: The gunman opened fire on the beach after hiding his Kalashnikov under an
umbrella, security official Rafik Chelli told Mosaique FM. From there he entered
the Hotel Imperial through the pool, shooting at people as he went.

:: Photographs seen by Sky News show one man in his 60s or 70s lying in a pool
of blood in his swimming shorts.

:: Thomson and First Choice are repatriating all our customers staying in Port
El Kantaoui and Sousse, and are cancelling all holidays to Tunisia for the next
week.

:: France

:: One man was decapitated and at least two others injured in an an attack at a
factory in southeastern France.

 :: The man's severed head was daubed in Arabic words and put on a fence outside
a factory in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, near Lyon.

:: The suspect, named as delivery driver Yassin Salhi, 35, has been arrested.

:: The decapitated man, who was in charge of a delivery company, was Salhi's
boss.

:: The suspect was carrying banners written in Arabic, which were found near the
body. One of the flags was white, one black.

:: The suspect deliberately rammed his van into a gas canisters at the Air
Products factory, triggering an explosion.

:: Air Products is an American chemical company based in Allentown,
Pennsylvania.

:: There have been four arrests in total, including Salhi's wife and sister.

:: Salhi was apprehended by a fireman at the scene. He had been trying to open a
canister of acetone when he was arrested, authorities say.

:: French President Francois Hollande has returned to France after cutting short
his appearance at  the EU summit in Brussels.

:: Kuwait

:: A suicide bomber blew himself up during Friday prayers at a Shiite mosque in
the Kuwaiti capital, killing 27 people.

: The blast hit Al-Imam al-Sadeq mosque in Kuwait City.

:: This is an unprecedented attack claimed by the Islamic State group.

:: More than 220 people have been taken to hospital with injuries.

::  Kuwaiti PM Sheikh Jaber al-Mubarak al-Sabah said the attack was an attempt
to threaten the country's national unity.

:: The IS-affiliated group in Saudi Arabia, calling itself Najd Province, said
militant Abu Suleiman al-Muwahhid carried out the attack on the mosque.

:: Najd Province blamed the mosque for spreading Shiite teachings among Sunni
Muslims.

:: Pictures circulating on social media showed several bloodied bodies in the
mosque amid debris.

:: Witnesses said a suicide bomber entered the mosque during the weekly noon
prayers.

:: The Kuwaiti interior ministry has raised the level of alert and mobilised all
security forces.

:: A number of hospitals in the oil-rich emirate declared states of emergency to
deal with the wounded.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

Terror Expert Says Deadly Assaults May Be Linked To Islamic State

The attacks on Tunisia, France and Kuwait could be connected as IS needs to
demonstrate it is still relevant a year after it proclaimed a caliphate and when
it is on the defensive in Iraq and Syria, says Maajid Nawaz from the
counter-extremism think tank, the Quilliam Foundation.

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

"I SURVIVED 7/7";
Ten years after Britain's worst-ever terrorist attack, one survivor tells his
story

SECTION: TV MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 359 words


George Roskilly was in the first carriage of a Piccadilly Line train on 7 July
2005 when it left London's Kings Cross. Standing 3ft away from him was Germaine
Lindsay, a suicide bomber. About one minute after the train left the station, at
8.50am, Lindsay blew himself up, killing 26 people.

"There was this almighty bang and, in a split second, it went pitch black,"
recalls George, who was travelling to his property-inspector job. "My first
thought was: 'We've hit another train.' It never occurred to me it was a bomb.

"There was a lot of screaming, crying and praying, then it went quiet with the
odd moan. We were trapped in a carriage filling with black smoke. We couldn't
see anything and the doors wouldn't open. I thought that was it."

After several agonising minutes, the driver asked people to walk through the
train towards his cabin.

"The euphoria of hearing that voice was unbelievable," reveals George, who tells
his story in the documentary The 7/7 Bombing: Survivors' Stories. "I walked very
carefully because I had no idea what I was treading on."

The passengers were helped on to the track and directed through the tunnels to
neighbouring station Russell Square. George was taken to a nearby hotel, where
he saw a sight that will haunt him for ever.

"Two guys put a stretcher down in front of me," says George, 71. "Someone on it
had no legs from the knees down and was completely black, just charred.

Having incurred only superficial head wounds, George was allowed to go home
straight away.

"I didn't go to the doctors," he says. "I had nothing to moan about - I was in
one piece."

However, seven months on, George had a breakdown. "I talked to a counsellor," he
explains. "The average age of those killed was 26 and I was 61. People who were
starting life were blown to bits, while I walked away. She helped me make sense
of a nonsensical situation."

Today, George regularly travels by Tube. He had a difficult couple of years
where he'd get off trains whenever he saw anyone with a rucksack who "looked a
bit suspicious", but now he can look forward again.

"The human spirit is very resilient," he says. "Every day is a bonus."
#SurvivorsStories

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: George suffered from survivor's guiltAlmost an hour after the attacks
on the Tube, a fourth bomber blew himself up on the No.30 bus near EustonThe
devastation left by the bomb in the Piccadilly Line Tube carriage that George
was travelling inThe three bombs on the Tube were detonated within 50 seconds of
each other from 8.49am

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2015 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:55 PM GMT

Tunisia attack: glasses case in handbag 'saved Briton's life';
British man who survived the Tunisia terror attacks says a handbag saved his
wife's life

BYLINE: By Telegraph reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 252 words


Tunisia attack: latest updates

A British man has said that his wife's life may have been saved during the
Tunisia terrorist attacks by the presence of a case for her glasses in her
handbag,

Speaking from his hospital bed, Tony Callaghan, a police worker, showed the
damaged glasses case and bag that took the full impact of the bullets.

He said he recognised the sound of gunfire immediately from his days serving in
the RAF and shouted a warning to other holidaymakers on the crowded beach

"I shouted that it wasn't a firework display and that people needed to get to
safety now. I remember one old man wandering in a daze and I told him he needed
to get going.

"I saw four bodies as I ran from the swimming pool to the hotel - where luckily
I found my wife hiding behind the reception desk.

"We then made our way to the back of the hotel but came to a dead end - and
heard more shooting. That's when a bullet grazed my leg and my wife was also
shot in the leg."

Mr Callaghan, who works as a property officer at the police public inquiry
officer at North Walsham, Norfolk was on holiday with his wife Christine in the
beach resort of Sousse.

A spokesman for Norfolk police said on Saturday: "They were both sadly injured
in the incident. Their injuries have required hospital treatment but are not
life-threatening.

"We are liaising with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office to ensure regular
updates regarding the couple and to provide assistance to their family back home
in Norfolk."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 8:18 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack on Britons 'worst since 7/7';
Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood says that the horrific attack in Sousse is the
"most significant terrorist attack on British people" since the 7/7 bombings

BYLINE: By Telegraph video video source APTN

LENGTH: 300 words


At least 15 Britons were among 38 holidaymakers killed in the Tunisian beach
massacre, but the toll may well rise.

Confirming the figure, Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood added that the Sousse
atrocity was "the most significant terrorist attack on the British people" since
July 7, 2005, when 52 people were killed.

Speaking at the Foreign Office, Mr Ellwood said: "Sadly, I can confirm that at
least 15 British nationals were killed in yesterday's atrocity but I should
stress that the number may well rise as several more have been seriously injured
in this horrific attack."

He added: "This is the most significant terrorist attack on British people since
7/7 and highlights the ongoing threat of Isil."

Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui targeted Western tourists as he
terrorised the popular resort.

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

He said they are "looking at the travel advice" but said they are pleased with
the efforts the Tunisians have put in place to increase security in the areas of
concern.

Mr Ellwood said he had spent much of today on the phone with victims and
families caught up in the "appalling attack".

A number of Britons are still missing, with families making appeals for any
information on their whereabouts.

Mark Stocker told Sky News that his father John Stocker and wife Janet had not
been in contact since the shooting at Tunisia's Sousse resort, and there was no
record of them in the hospitals in the area.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 7:26 PM GMT

Sousse terrorist attack: People flee as gunshots heard in Tunisian resort;
Video shows people running on the beach and streets in Sousse, Tunisia, as
gunshots are heard in the background.

BYLINE: By Sophie Jamieson video source Storyful / YouTube / Mosaique FM /
Facebook / Nidhal Zidi

LENGTH: 193 words


Warning: this video contains footage some may find distressing

People can be seen fleeing the streets of Sousse as gunshots are heard in a
video from the deadly Tunisian beach attack .

A total of 38 people were killed in the shooting, most of whom were British
tourists. Another 36 people were injured.

In the video, tourists and residents can be seen running away from the scene of
the violence. In the background, loud gunshots are heard.

It also shows footage of local residents running through the streets and shots
being fired.

It is not clear whether or not the shots are being fired by police or the
gunman, however in another video, shot from a window above the street, the
police appear to be firing shots in the air as they escort a group of people
away from the scene.

· Tunisia attack: gunmen storm tourist beach hotel, with further attacks in
France and Kuwait - latest · Sousse terrorist attack: injured taken to hospital
· Sousse terrorist attack: why were tourists targeted in Tunisia?

British holidaymakers have described how they fled in panic  from the massacre
as they realised they were under attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 7:02 PM GMT

Tunisia gunman Seifeddine Rezgui: 'mixed a devotion for Isil with passion for
Real Madrid football team';
The 23-year-old engineering student who committed the deadliest terror attack
against British citizens since 7/7 had joined the Islamist society at university

BYLINE: By Colin Freeman and Hassan Morajea in Gaafour

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1277 words


The photograph is like countless others released by the Islamic State's
propaganda wing - a young man sits flanked by a pair of Kalashnikovs, grinning
excitedly at the prospect of proving himself in combat.

Yet when Seifeddine Rezgui's turn for martyrdom came, it was not in the tough
battlegrounds of Syria or Iraq, but in a killing field that could scarcely be
easer - a group of unsuspecting tourists lying on sunbeds on a Tunisian beach,
some of whom may not even have seen his face.

· Tunisia attack: 15 Brits confirmed dead in worst act of terrorism since 7/7 -
latest

Nonetheless, by dint of sheer bloodthirstiness alone, his act of "lone wolf"
savagery has guaranteed him a place in history, as the perpetrator of the worst
single act of terrorism against British citizens since the July 7 bombings in
2005. So who exactly was he?

Alarmingly for the Tunisian authorities, the most obvious answer to that
question is that far from being the exalted "Soldier of the Caliphate" that Isil
has hailed him as, he was just an all too typical Tunisian youth.

Interactive: Sousse hotels

According to Tunisia's Prime Minister, Habib Essid, Rezgui was a 23-year-old
engineering student who originally hailed from Gaafour, a drab and unremarkable
town some 50 miles south-west of Tunis. He had never travelled abroad, Mr Essid
said, and was not known by the police to hold extremist views.

"We were all shocked when we heard the news and saw his picture, and his mother
was devastated," added his uncle, Ali Al-Rezgui, speaking to The Telegraph
outside the family's small, whitewashed home in Gaafour on Saturday.

"Yes, he went to mosque and prayed, but just like the other young men, he would
then go to a cafe and play football with his friends. I last saw him on
Thursday, he said 'hello', and then he left that night and went to his friend's
house. We didn't know where he was going, and there were no goodbye's. The
entire family is shocked at the hidden reality of what he was capable of."

Yet like most Arab youngsters these days, Rezgui appears to have been a keen
user of social media. And a Facebook page believed to belong to him paints a
very different picture of his outlook on life. For amid the fan postings about
rap music, Real Madrid and the Tunisia's chances in the Africa Cup, there are
numerous postings in support of Isil, as well as several of their propaganda
videos.

Notably, most of his radical postings appear to have started only early last
year, prior to which he seemed to be more interested in rap music and sharing
jokes. His final entry is New Year 2015, and read: "May God take me out of this
unjust world and perish its people and make them suffer. They just remember you
when they die."

Why Rezgui stopped all his Facebook activity after that date will now be a
matter for the authorities, who on Saturday seized a laptop during a raid on his
family home in Gaafour, during which his parents were reportedly arrested. But
if he was being groomed to carry out an attack, whoever was his handler might
have advised him to stop all online activity well before his planned assault.

That same handler might have also had advance knowledge of March's planned
atrocity at Tunisia's Bardo Museum, in which 19 people died, and have been
anxious that Rezgui did nothing to draw attention to himself in the aftermath.

Quite who those "handlers" were - if indeed he had any - remains unknown as of
yet. But a possible clue may lie in Rezgui's Isil nom de guerre, Abu Yahya al
Qayrawani. The last name is a reference to the Tunisian city of Kairouan, where
Rezgui last year enrolled in a master's degree at the local university. The
ancient city, which sits on the edge of the Sahara desert, was one of the
earliest centres of Sunni Muslim Islamic scholarship, and has long been
considered one of holiest sites in the Muslim world.

More recently, though, it has also been a centre for Islamic radicalism, and
until two years ago was the main gathering place in Tunisia for Ansar al-Sharia,
the radical Islamic group that first sprung up in neighbouring Libya after the
2011 Arab Spring.

Following Ansar al-Sharia's attack on a US embassy compound in Libya in 2012, in
which the consulate, Chris Stevens was killed, it was declared a terrorist group
by Washington. At the time, the Tunisian government chose not to follow suit,
wary of being seen to act in the same authoritarian fashion as the country's
deposed dictator, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. But in 2013, it too outlawed the
group, after a riot erupted when Tunisian police stopped its followers holding
their annual rally in Kairouan.

Since then, many of its hard core members are believed to fled abroad to fight
with Isil in Syria and Iraq. Indeed, such is the exodus that Tunisia is now
believed to have contributed some 3,000 jihadist fighters to the conflict, more
than any other country.

The irony is that as a Facebook-surfing 20-something, Rezgui was also part of
the exact same generation of young Tunisians who kicked off the Arab world's
biggest ever steps towards democracy.

In Junuary 2011, Facebook-orchestrated street protests overthrew President Ben
Ali, following outrage over the death of a fruit vendor, Mohamed Bouazizi, who
set himself on fire in despair at harassment by local officials over his lack of
a trade permit. That then sparked off copycat Arab Spring revolutions in Egypt,
Libya, Syria and Yemen, all of which hailed tiny Tunisia as their inspiration.

Yet as it turned out, Tunis's web-savvy middle classes were not the only ones
who saw Mr Ben Ali's fall as a chance for change. So too did Islamist parties of
various hues of radicalism, whose religious agenda has earned them strong
support and sometimes near-block votes in Tunisia's more conservative rural
interior.

Both secularists and Islamists now have their share of power in parliament, and
in contrast to other Arab Spring nations, so far the country's efforts at
democracy have been largely successful. All the same, secular politicians have
been assassinated and harrassed, and while radical religious parties have been
subjected to periodic bans and crackdowns, they continue to pose a threat.
Meanwhile, with post-Arab Spring Tunisia still suffering from painfully high
unemployment, the same sense of despair that drove Mohamed Bouazazi to
self-immolation is motivating plenty of other young Tunisian men to give up
their lives for jihad.

Was that the case with Rezgui? His uncle said that the family had been
traumatised in 2010 when Rezgui's younger brother had died in a lightning
strike. But otherwise, he insisted, there had been no sign of anything to worry
about.

"He used to use hair gel and wear the nicest of clothes, and he used to break
dancing," he said. "He even used to go to competitions and things like that in
Tunis, he was well known for that here. He didn't even have a beard, and I've
never seen him with anyone with a beard. We have extremists like that in
Gaafour, but never have I seen him with them. Now he's shooting people with a
Kalashnikov, it's just so confusing."

Whether his parents were similarly in the dark is now a matter for the
authorities, who on Saturday were still questioning his mother and father up in
the capital, Tunis. However, had his parents, his uncle or indeed the police
ever browsed the main page of what appears to be Rezgui's Facebook account, one
particular posting might have given them a very clear inkling. "If jihad is a
crime," he wrote, "the world shall know that I'm a criminal." On Friday, with
his massacre of innocent civilians on the beach, he proved that to the world
beyond all doubt.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 5:38 PM GMT

French soul searching after third terror attack;
Mayor of town where Yassin Salhi beheaded victim and drove car into a factory
says there were 'gaps' in security that allowed Islamist to behead victim

BYLINE: By David Chazan Paris and Rory Mulholland in Saint-Priest

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 749 words


The French government has promised to step up surveillance of terrorist suspects
amid anger over a decision to stop monitoring an Islamist who beheaded his boss
and tried to blow up a chemical factory.

Yassin Salhi, 35, attacked the Air Products site in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier,
outside Lyon, on Friday. He attached the severed head of his boss, Hervé
Cornara, 54, to a fence before being arrested after a fireman wrestled him to
the ground.

He was said on Saturday to have taken a "selfie" with victim's severed head.

Salhi appeared on the intelligence radar as a potential terrorist as early as
2006 but was taken off a watch list two years later because he was not
considered to pose an imminent threat. Similar judgements were made about the
Kouachi brothers, who massacred the staff of the magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris
in January, and Mohammed Merah, who killed seven people including three Jewish
children in 2012.

Gilles Gascon, mayor of St Priest, the Lyon suburb where Salhi lived, criticised
"gaps" in the security measures introduced in the wake of the January attacks.

"People like that should not be left at large," said Mr Gascon, a member of
Nicolas Sarkozy's centre-Right opposition party, The Republicans. Mr Sarkozy
himself said that "for several weeks" he had been urging the government "to take
all essential measures to protect the French people."

In an effort to reassure an increasingly anxious public, the Interior Minister,
Bernard Cazeneuve, said new powers to intercept telephone calls and emails and
keep track of social media and internet use would help the security services
prevent attacks in future.

The French parliament passed a law beefing up investigatory and surveillance
powers, which is remarkably similar to Britain's proposed "snoopers' charter",
two days before the latest attack.

Mr Cazeneuve said the "continuous monitoring of terrorists... even those who
show only low-level signs of activity, will allow them to be detected and
prevented from doing harm more rapidly."

However, a Socialist MP who helped draft the new intelligence law, Sébastien
Pietrasanta, admitted it would not have helped prevent Salhi's attack.

"It would have changed nothing as this individual had not been under
surveillance since 2008," Mr Pietrasanta said.

He added that the difficulty was when jihadists "went dark", adopting a "normal"
lifestyle to remove them from suspicion before committing an attack. "We should
have the honesty to tell the French people there is no zero risk," he said,
pointing out that it takes 25 people to keep track of one individual 24 hours a
day.

The prime minister, Manuel Valls, warned more terrorist attacks were certain in
France. "It isn't a question of if, but when," Mr Valls said, prompting
soul-searching about what Le Parisien newspaper called "the fundamentalism
gnawing away at our suburbs" and concerns about the threat from hundreds of
French jihadists who have fought in Iraq or Syria.

A Right-wing MP, Christian Estrosi, said the hundreds French jihadists who have
fought in Iraq or Syria constituted a "fifth column" inside France.

In the mainly Muslim Paris suburb of Aulnay-sous-Bois, people condemned Friday's
attacks in France, Tunisia and Kuwait. "These people aren't Muslims if they
committed crimes like this during Ramadan (the Islamic holy month)," said
Mohammed, 43, a butcher who declined to give his surname. "We want everyone to
know that we Muslims are as shocked as everyone else."

His view seemed to reflect the feeling of many in the area, which was hard hit
by nationwide riots in 2005 triggered by the deaths of two Muslim teenagers,
electrocuted in a power substation while fleeing from police.

However, a group of tough-looking young men standing around at the entrance to a
council block, saw things differently.

"People here are angry because this society doesn't want us, there's no work for
us, and that's why there's going to be more violence, lots more," said a
22-year-old who gave his name as Ahmed.

"We're French, born in France, and people are always telling us there's no
discrimination in this country, but they've banned the (Islamic) veil and if I
go for a job interview, they'll always prefer someone who's not Arab or black."

Yassin Salhi, his wife and sister remained in custody yesterday. Investigators
were examining a computer removed from his home but police sources said Salhi,
who has no criminal record and is not believed to have travelled to Iraq or
Syria, was "not cooperating".

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 5:18 PM GMT

Tunisia gunman Seifeddine Rezgui: 'mixed a devotion for Isil with passion for
Real Madrid football team';
The 23-year-old engineering student who committed the deadliest terror attack
against British citizens since 7/7 had joined the Islamist society at university

BYLINE: By Colin Freeman Chief foriegn correspondent

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 737 words


The photograph is like countless others released by the Islamic State's
propaganda wing - a young man sits flanked by a pair of Kalashnikovs, grinning
excitedly at the prospect of proving himself in combat. Yet when Seifeddine
Rezgui's turn for martyrdom came, it was not in the tough battlegrounds of Syria
or Iraq, but in a killing field that could scarcely be easer - a group of
unsuspecting tourists lying on sunbeds on a Tunisian beach, some of whom may not
even have seen his face.

· Tunisia attack: 15 Brits confirmed dead in worst act of terrorism since 7/7 -
latest

Nonetheless, by dint of sheer bloodthirstiness alone, his act of "lone wolf"
savagery has guaranteed him a place in history, as the perpetrator of the worst
single act of terrorism against British citizens since the July 7 bombings in
2005. So who exactly was he?

Alarmingly for the Tunisian authorities, the most obvious answer to that
question is that far from being the exalted "Soldier of the Caliphate" that Isil
has hailed him as, he was just an all too typical Tunisian youth. According to
Tunisia's Prime Minister, Habib Essid, Rezgui was a 23-year-old engineering
student who originally hailed from Gaafour, a drab and unremarkable town some 50
miles south-west of Tunis. He had never travelled abroad, Mr Essid said, and was
not known by the police to hold extremist views.

Yet like most Arab youngsters these days, Rezgui appears to have been a keen
user of social media. And a Facebook page believed to belong to him paints a
very different picture of his outlook on life. For amid the fan postings about
rap music, Real Madrid and the Tunisia's chances in the Africa Cup, there are
numerous postings in support of Isil, as well as several of their propaganda
videos. He also writes on his site: "If Jihad is a crime, the word shall know
that I'm a criminal."

Notably, most of his radical postings appear to have started only early last
year, prior to which he seemed to be more interested in rap music and sharing
jokes. His final entry is New Year 2015, and read: "May God take me out of this
unjust world and perish its people and make them suffer. They just remember you
when they die."

Why Rezgui stopped all his Facebook activity after that date will now be a
matter for the authorities, who yesterday seized a laptop during a raid on his
family home in Gaafour, during which his parents were reportedly arrested. But
if he was being groomed to carry out an attack, whoever was his handler might
have advised him to stop all online activity well before his planned assault.

That same handler might have also had advance knowledge of March's planned
atrocity at Tunisia's Bardo Museum, in which 19 people died, and been anxious
that Rezgui did nothing to draw attention to himself in the aftermath.

Quite who those "handlers" were - if indeed he had any - remains unknown as of
yet. But a possible clue may lie in Rezgui's Isil nom due guerre, Abu Yahya al
Qayrawani. The last name is a reference to the Tunisian city of Kairouan, where
Rezgui last year enrolled in a master's degree at the local university. The
ancient city, which sits on the edge of the Sahara desert, was one of the
earliest centres of Sunni Muslim Islamic scholarship, and has long been
considered one of holiest sites in the Muslim world.

More recently, though, it has also been a centre for Islamic radicalism, and
until two years ago was the main gathering place in Tunisia for Ansar al-Sharia,
the radical Islamic group that first sprung up in neighbouring Libya after the
2011 Arab Spring.

Following Ansar al-Sharia's attack on a US embassy compound in Libya in 2012, in
which the consulate, Chris Stevens was killed, it was declared a terrorist group
by Washington. At the time, the Tunisian government chose not to follow suit,
wary of of being seen to act in the same authoritarian fashion as the country's
deposed dictator, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. But in 2013 it too outlawed the
group, after a riot erupted when Tunisian police stopped it holding its annual
rally in Kairouan.

Since then, many of its hard core members are believed to fled abroad to fight
with Isil in Syria and Iraq, to the point where Tunisia is believed to have
contributed some 3,000 jihadist fighters to the conflict - more than any other
country. Yet in Isil's view, those who stay to wreak havoc at home are arguably
just as valuable.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 4:06 PM GMT

Armed Forces Day: Thousands turn out in solidarity;
Thousands of people all across the UK, including David Cameron and the Duke of
York, attended events to mark Armed Forces Day amid increased security after a
terror attack in Tunisia

BYLINE: By Telegraph video and PA, video source ITN

LENGTH: 223 words


Across the UK Britons stepped out in solidarity to mark <em class="bold">Armed
Forces Day.<em class="bold" />

Police had encouraged the public to attend events as normal after it was
reported that a parade had been targeted by <em class="bold">Islamic State
(Isil).<em class="bold" />

They also took place against a backdrop of heightened security in the aftermath
of the Tunisian beach massacre. At least eight Britons are among the 39
holidaymakers killed, the country's ministry of health has confirmed.

A celebration at Guildford was attended by David Cameron, Defence Secretary
Michael Fallon and Vice Chief of the Defence Staff Air Chief Marshal Sir Stuart
Peach.

Speaking at the national event, which included a service at Guildford Cathedral
and a parade of more than 900 service personnel, veterans and cadets, the Prime
Minister said: "Today, we celebrate our brave servicemen and women who work so
hard to keep our country safe."

<em class="bold">The Duke of York                                          <em
class="bold" />took the salute on the parade route on behalf of the Queen and
Royal Family, as the Red Arrows staged a fly-past.

More than 150 other celebrations taking place to mark the seventh annual Armed
Forces Day ranged from large-scale parades to simple community events.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 2:48 PM GMT

Sousse terror: British tourist films attack from hotel;
Interview with the British tourist who captured the sound of gunshots from his
hotel room in Sousse, Tunisia

BYLINE: By Sophie Jamieson video source ITN/Matthew Kenyon

LENGTH: 135 words


Matthew Kenyon was about to hire a jetski when he and his girlfriend heard what
they thought at first was "firecrackers", before they realised that a gunman had
opened fire on their beach.

The pair grabbed their belongings before running back to their hotel room.

Mr Kenyon, 21, from York, then began filming the attack from his hotel balcony.

· Sousse terrorist attack: why were tourists targeted in Tunisia?· Sousse
terrorist attack: People flee as gunshots heard in Tunisian resort · Islamist
terror attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, in pictures

He can be heard on the video saying, "I do not want them to come into this
f****** hotel," before a loud gunshot is sounded.

A total of 38 people were killed in the shooting, most of whom were British
tourists.

Here's a clip from the video Matthew Kenyon took:

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 12:21 PM GMT

Sousse terror: British tourist films attack from hotel;
A British tourist captured the sound of gunshots from his hotel room in Sousse,
Tunisia

BYLINE: By Sophie Jamieson video source: ITN/Matthew Kenyon

LENGTH: 107 words


A British tourist captured the moment gunmen unleashed terror on a popular beach
from his hotel.

From the safety of his hotel balcony the Brit filmed the view of the beach and
surrounding hotels during the attack.

· Sousse terrorist attack: why were tourists targeted in Tunisia?· Sousse
terrorist attack: People flee as gunshots heard in Tunisian resort· Islamist
terror attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, in pictures

One holidaymaker can be heard on the video saying, "I do not want them to come
into this f****** hotel," before a loud gunshot is sounded.

A total of 38 people were killed in the shooting, most of whom were British
tourists.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:30 AM GMT

Sousse terrorist attack: People flee as gunshots heard in Tunisian resort;
Video shows people running on the beach and streets in Sousse, Tunisia, as
gunshots are heard in the background

BYLINE: By Sophie Jamieson video source: Storyful

LENGTH: 114 words


People can be seen fleeing the streets of Sousse as gunshots are heard in a
video from the deadly Tunisian beach attack .

A total of 38 people were killed in the shooting, most of whom were British
tourists.

· Tunisia attack: gunmen storm tourist beach hotel, with further attacks in
France and Kuwait - latest · Sousse terrorist attack: injured taken to hospital
· Sousse terrorist attack: why were tourists targeted in Tunisia?

In the video, tourists and residents can be seen running away from the scene of
the violence. In the background, loud gunshots are heard.

British holidaymakers have described how they fled in panic  from the massacre
as they realised they were under attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 7:40 AM GMT

Most of 38 killed in beach massacre were British, says Tunisian Prime Minister;

Habbib Essid, says UK tourists account for majority of victims in the beach
terrorist attack, other victims include Belgians and Germans as Islamic State
claims responsibility

BYLINE: By David Millward

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 629 words


· Tunisia attack: gunmen storm tourist beach hotel, with further attacks in
France and Kuwait - latest

The majority of tourists slaughtered by a jihadist gunman at a Tunisian beach
resort were British, the country's Prime Minister said.

In all 38 people died when the killer pulled out a rifle from a parasol and
opened fire on his defenceless victims who were basking in the sun at Sousse.

An initial estimate from Philip Hammond, the Foreign Secretary, suggested that
there were five Britons among the dead.

But it now appears that the number of UK tourists who died will be higher than
this.

"The majority are British," Habbib Essid, the Tunisian Prime Minister said.
"After come the Germans, then the Belgians and then other nationalities."

Local authority sources identified the gunman, who was later shot dead, as
Saifeddine Rezgui, a 23-year-old electrical engineering student, who was
previously unknown to the authorities.

This latest attack, for which the Islamic State claimed responsibility, was the
second mass slaughter of holidaymakers in a country heavily reliant on tourism.

It came just over three months after 24 people, including 20 foreign tourists,
were killed at the Bardo Museum in Tunis .

The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) was quick to claim the beach
massacre as its work on social media. In March it claimed responsibility for the
museum attack.

"Our brother, the soldier of the Caliphate, Abu Yihya al-Kairouni, reached his
target the Imperial Hotel despite the security measures," one jihadist Twitter
account proclaimed.

The attacks in France and Kuwait  have led to fears that Islamic militants are
planning a co-ordinated terrorist campaign aimed at westerners at home and
abroad.

Reports from eye-witnesses in Sousse indicated the difficulties faced in heading
off further atrocities with the gunman blending in with others on the beach as
he prepared to unleash his deadly assault.

"It was just one attacker," said a hotel worker at the site. "He was a young guy
dressed in shorts like he was a tourist himself."

The gunman pulled a weapon from an umbrella and began spraying bullets at
tourists on the beach and at the hotel pool.

Witnesses said he joked before selecting his victims and opening fire

Gary Pine, a British holidaymaker, said there was sheer panic. He told his son
to get out of the water and grabbed a bag and ran back to the hotel.

"There were a lot of concerned people, a few people in tears with panic and a
few people - older guests - they'd turned their ankles or there were a few
little minor injuries and nicks and scrapes."

Elizabeth O'Brien, an Irish tourist, added: "I honestly thought it was fireworks
and then when I saw people running... I thought, my God, it is shooting," she
told Irish radio station RTE. "The waiters and the security on the beach started
to say 'Run, run, run!'"

There were also reports of heroism. Matthew James, a 30-year-old gas engineer
from Trehafod, near Pontypridd, used his body as a shield to protect Saera
Wilson, 26, his fiancée.

"He took a bullet for me. I owe him my life because he threw himself in front of
me when the shooting started.

· Were Tunisia, France, Kuwait attacks co-ordinated by Islamic State for
Ramadan?

"He was covered in blood from the shots, but he just told me to run away."

The authorities in Tunisia have already announced fresh curbs aimed at tackling
jihadists, with 80 mosques accused of inciting violence facing closure.

Beji Caid Essebsi, Tunisia's President, angrily condemned those responsible for
the rampage. "Once again, cowardly and traitorous hands have struck Tunisia,
targeting its security and that of its children and visitors," he said.

"No country is safe from terrorism, and we need a global strategy of all
democratic countries."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 9:21 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Cardiff couple fled terrorist gunman - then got engaged
hours later;
Shelley Hay and Ben Wilton described the 'stampede' as they fled the beach where
a Kalashnikov-wielding killer shot dead dozens of Western tourists

BYLINE: By walesonline

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 279 words


A couple from Cardiff escaped the seafront terror as a gunman opened fire in a
Tunisian resort - and got engaged hours later.

Shelley Hay and Ben Wilton saw sand flying up as shots peppered the beach where
they were relaxing with gunshots ringing out "like fireworks".

Ben had planned to propose to his girlfriend on the day of the tragedy - which
was also her 25th birthday.

The pair grabbed their belongings and fled the beach when a terrorist gunman
opened fire just metres away, killing dozens.

RELATED: Fellow gas engineers rally round to raise thousands for hero Welshman
who took bullets for his fiancee

Ben said: "I just got up, grabbed our bag with all the valuables in, spotted
Shelley, grabbed her, and we just started running towards the hotel gates with
everyone else. Hotel gates began to close

"It was like a stampede and the path was only small so everyone was trying to
squeeze through this gap."

The pair said they saw parents grabbing their children before trying to escape.

As the pair ran to their hotel for safety its gates began to close. They managed
to get to their room and locked themselves in.

RELATED: 'Majority' of the 39 dead in beach shooting were British, says Tunisian
prime minister

Speaking to ITV, Ben said he decided to go ahead and propose hours later in a
restaurant in a show of defiance to the terrorists.

"First of all I thought 'I'm going to have to leave it and wait until we get
home'," he said.

"But as the day went on I thought 'No, actually, they're not going to stop this'
so I just did it anyway."

They were on an emergency flight home from Tunisia to Manchester Airport
overnight and arrived back home in Cardiff on Saturday lunchtime.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                       June 27, 2015 Saturday 5:24 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Wrexham footballer left resort 48 hours before terrorists
killed 38 people;
Dragons attacker Wes York would still have been at the Sousse beach, Tunisia,
when the attack happened if he had not decided to cut short his holiday

BYLINE: By walesonline

SECTION: SPORT

LENGTH: 452 words


A Wrexham FC footballer left a Tunisian resort 48 hours before 38 people were
murdered in a shocking terrorist attack.

Dragons attacker Wes York would still have been at the Sousse beach, Tunisia,
when the gun attack happened if he had not decided to cut short his holiday to
prepare for pre-season training.

Wes had gone on holiday with three friends to the resort and stayed in a hotel
which had a private walkway to the beach targeted by terrorists.

He told the Daily Post: "When I heard the news I was absolutely sick.

"It was a lovely place to go for a holiday and we got to know a lot of people
there. We were at that stretch of the beach which was attacked.

"We heard that they were just shooting people in the sun beds where we had been.

"This could have been a lot worse for us. We could have been there when the
attack happened.

"We had been told to be careful when leaving the resort, but you would just not
have expected this.

RELATED: Fellow gas engineers rally round to raise thousands for hero Welshman
who took bullets for his fiancee

"I have been watching what has happened on TV and it just sends chills down your
spine to think I was only just there."

The attack on hotels on the Tunisian coast killed 38 people, most of them
tourists, according to the country's Interior Ministry.

On Saturday, the Foreign Office confirmed 15 Britons had died in the attack but
Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood warned the death toll was likely to rise.

He said it was "the most significant terrorist attack on the British people"
since the London 7/7 bombings in 2005.

A Tunisian student linked to Islamic State (IS) carried out the gun attack.

Sousse, about 90 miles from Tunis, is a popular resort for Tunisians and
Europeans.

A British tourist close to the scene described his experiences.

Gary Pine said he was on the beach and heard what "we thought was firecrackers
going off" 100 yards away, followed by an explosion from the next hotel complex
along.

"There was a mass exodus off the beach," he said, adding that his son had seen
someone get shot on the beach.

He said guests at his hotel were first told to lock themselves in their rooms,
and later to gather in the lobby.

Tunisia has endured attacks by militants, most recently in March when two
Tunisians returning from Libya killed 22 people at the national museum.

The attack came on the same day an attacker with suspected ties to French
Islamic radicals rammed a car into a gas factory in France, and a severed head
was staked on a post at the entrance, officials said.

Two people were injured in the attack in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, south-east of
Lyon, authorities said.

In Kuwait a suicide terrorist attack on a Shia mosque in the capital killed at
least 25 people.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 12:18 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Welsh woman feared dead in horrific beach rampage found
alive;
The cousin of Lena Tanti, from Cardiff, had reported her missing but has since
spoken to her and learned she is in a separate resort

BYLINE: By Ciaran Jones

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 124 words


A 25-year-old Welsh woman it was feared had died in the Tunisian terror attack
been found alive.

Lena Tanti, from Cardiff, is on holiday in Tunisia with a friend.

Her cousin, Chris Spiteri, 29, also from Cardiff, reported her missing on Friday
but finally spoke to her on Saturday morning.

He told the Telegraph: "I have spoken to her this morning and she's fine and
that's all I care about."

RELATED: Live updates as 'at least 39 people' killed in beach shootings

Earlier he had told the BBC: "She's on holiday with her friend and I've tried
calling her but her phone is dead.

"I've WhatsApped her but I haven't heard back.

Ms Tanti is reportedly at a resort two hours away from where the attack took
place and has no plans to return to the UK early.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      June 27, 2015 Saturday 10:25 AM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: At least 15 British victims killed in beach massacre as
death toll reaches 39;
The stark scale of the deaths means it is the biggest terror attack on British
people since the London bombings a decade ago

BYLINE: By walesonline

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1754 words


Fifteen Britons have died in the Tunisian beach massacre but the toll "may well
rise", Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood said, adding that it was "the most
significant terrorist attack on the British people" since July 7, 2005.

At least 39 holidaymakers were killed in the incident, Tunisia's ministry of
health has confirmed.

Tunisia's prime minister had reportedly earlier warned the majority of those
killed when a gunman opened fire on holidaymakers were British.

Tunisian authorities have confirmed the nationalities of 10 of the dead so far,
with a Belgian and a German identified alongside the British victims.

Speaking in the Foreign Office, Mr Ellwood said: "Sadly, I can confirm that at
least 15 British nationals were killed in yesterday's atrocity but I should
stress that the number may well rise as several more have been seriously injured
in this horrific attack."

He added: "This is the most significant terrorist attack on British people since
7/7 and highlights the ongoing threat of Isil."'Appalling attack'

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

He said they were "looking at the travel advice" but said they are pleased the
efforts the Tunisians have put in place to increase security in the areas of
concern.

Mr Ellwood said he had spent much of today on the phone with victims and
families caught up in the "appalling attack".

British police have flown to the resort to help identify victims and consular
teams are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected, he said.'Savage'
killings

Tunisian PM Habib Essid has since reportedly told a news conference that the
majority of victims were British, followed by Germans, Belgians and other
nationalities while David Cameron warned today the public needs to be prepared
for the fact that "many of those killed" in the "savage" Tunisian shooting were
British.

Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack in which a
young man pulled out a Kalashnikov hidden in a beach parasol and shot at
sunbathers in Sousse.

RELATED: Live updates as 'at least 39 people' killed in beach shootings

Mr Cameron said a "full deployment team" of consular staff, police and experts
from the Red Cross would arrive in the North African country today to help the
victims and their families and the Government was doing "all we can to" help
them.

Speaking in Downing Street, he said: "These savage terrorist attacks in Tunisia,
Kuwait and France are a brutal and tragic reminder of the threat faced around
the world from these evil terrorists."'We will defeat extremists'

Mr Cameron spoke to the Tunisian president last night to discuss what more could
be done to tackle the threat.

The Prime Minister, who today chaired a second meeting of the emergency Cobra
committee, said his "thoughts and prayers are with the loved ones of those
killed or injured".

"We are working with the Tunisian authorities to identify the final number of
British casualties but I'm afraid that the British public need to be prepared
for the fact that many of those killed were British."

Mr Cameron insisted "we will defeat" Islamic extremists waging terror around the
world.

"These were innocent holidaymakers relaxing and enjoying time with their friends
and families. Like the victims in France and Kuwait yesterday, they did not pose
a threat to anybody.

"These terrorists murdered them because the terrorist oppose people and
countries who stand for peace, tolerance and democracy.

"Wherever they are in the world, these terrorists will not succeed, for as much
as they try to divide people they will only unite us more strongly in our
determination to defeat these Islamist extremists and all they stand for."

 'Whatever it takes'

Mr Cameron said he could only imagine the "pain, and anguish and agony" of
families caught up in these "terrible events".

"We'll do whatever it takes to help them," he said.

Asked about the increased security in place today for events across the UK
marking Armed Forces Day, he said: "Let's be clear. There's no doubt we face a
very severe threat in our country and we have done for many months and many
years but the level of the threat is identified independently of government and
published in the proper way.

"But today is about paying tribute to our armed forces and their families who do
so much to keep us safe and we should proceed with those events."

He said there will be "heightened security" and said the most important thing is
to "carry on" thanking the armed forces for their work "knowing that in our
country we face a severe terrorist threat".

But he said if people worked together, were vigilant and backed the police, "we
can combat this poisonous narrative of Islamist extremism that is radicalising
too many young minds in our country".'Shoulder to shoulder' with Tunisia

Mr Hammond said on Friday: "We have to assume that a high proportion of those
killed and injured will have been British".

SITE Intel Group, which monitors the jihadi threat, tweeted: "ISIS claimed
credit for the Tunisia hotel attack in Sousse and identified the attacker as Abu
Yahya al-Qayrawani."

RELATED: Hero Welsh father shot as he acted as human shield to save his fiancee
'doesn't want his children worrying about him'

Mr Cameron earlier said the UK stands "shoulder to shoulder" with Tunisia in the
battle against terrorism.

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said the Government was ready to help the
victims and their families "in any way that we can".

"The murders in Tunisia and the events in France and Kuwait are a very stark
reminder that we can never take our security for granted," he told BBC
Breakfast.

camWorst attack in Tunisian history

Security at major events being staged across the UK on Saturday, such as armed
forces day celebrations and London's Pride march, has been reviewed.

"With big events like that of course the police look at the security
arrangements again and make sure that we take every precaution," he added.

The worst such attack in Tunisia's history came on the same day a man was found
decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory
and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked they come after the
so-called Islamic State called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of
calamities for the nonbelievers".

Afzal Ashraf, a consultant fellow at defence and security think tank the Royal
United Services Institute, said the attacks may be linked to the anniversary of
the declaration of an IS caliphate in Iraq and Syria, which is on Monday.

RELATED: Tearful holidaymakers land back in Britain

"If you look at these attacks, and what has been happening over the last 48
hours, attacks by IS in various parts of Syria and Iraq, they want to make a bit
of a splash, to get the message out, 'We're still here - it's a year since we
declared this thing and you haven't got rid of us'. They see it as a great
victory, because the world has combined against them."Consular support

Mr Hammond chaired an emergency Cobra meeting on Friday and another one will be
held on Saturday morning to look at the UK's response to the three attacks.

A consular team is in Sousse and two rapid response teams were travelling to the
region overnight, he said.

Bodies covered in blankets were strewn across the beach and medical staff used
sun loungers as stretchers to carry away the dead and injured.

At least 36 people were wounded in the attack.

Despite initially believing there was more than one gunman, the Tunisian
authorities later said the killer was thought to be a young student who had not
previously been known to their security services.

His killing spree on the beach at the Riu Bellevue Park ended when he was shot
dead by police. A bomb was found on his body.

British tourist Ellie Makin, from Ripon, North Yorkshire, who was on holiday
with her friend Debbie Horsfall from Huddersfield, said the gunman was next to
them on a sunbed.

She told ITV News: "He was to the right of me because we were on the last sunbed
on the beach. All of a sudden I got up anyway and just happened to look right
and all I saw was a gun and an umbrella being dropped.

"Then he started firing to the right-hand side of us. If he had fired to the
left I don't know what would have happened but we were very lucky."'Absolutely
distraught'

An Irish mother-of-two who was shot dead was named locally as Lorna Carty, from
Robinstown, Co Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

One of those killed is reported to be 24-year-old fashion blogger Carly Lovett
from Gainsborough, Lincolnshire.

Miss Lovett, who had only been engaged a few months, was with her fiancee, and
they were due to return home today, ITV News reported.

Friends and fellow bloggers paid emotional tributes to the former University of
Lincoln student on social media.

The university's School of Film and Media tweeted: "Saddened to hear news
reports of Carly Lovett in Tunisia - Graduate of our University 2013."

Those killed are more likely to be foreign as the local Muslim population is
less likely to go to the beach during the holy month of Ramadan.

Tension has been high in Tunisia since an attack on the National Bardo Museum in
March which killed 22 people, mostly foreign tourists including a Briton.

A suicide bomber blew himself up in a failed attack on the beach in Sousse in
October 2013, while 21 people lost their lives in an attack in the country
earlier this year.Helpline set up

Tunisia has undergone unprecedented social and political change since the 2011
uprisings and the Foreign Office says there is a "high" threat from terrorism.

Sousse is on the east coast, about 87 miles south of the capital, Tunis. Around
1.2m tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn by the hotels, sandy beaches and
culture.

Anyone concerned about family or friends in Tunisia can contact the Foreign
Office helpline on 020 7008 0000.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Terror INTUNISIA is an attack on us all;
COMMENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 485 words


THESE must be among the most terrifying words a father can hear when he receives
a call from his daughter on holiday: "There's gunfire on the beach."

The slaughter of tourists in Tunisia is an act of cruelty which comes on a day
of atrocities. The attack on a chemical plant near Lyon featured the barbarity
of a beheading, and the murder of Shiite worshippers in a Kuwaiti mosque is a
blatant attempt to ignite sectarian conflict.

On different continents, the hunt is on for whoever is responsible for these
outrages. It will have escaped the attention of no-one that on Tuesday a
spokesman for the socalled Islamic State called on the followers of this
monstrous movement to "make Ramadan a month of disasters for the infidels".

This group revels in its notoriety for obscenity and savagery and delights in
inventing new ways to carry out executions. Despite wrapping themselves in a
pretence of piety their warped creed has no room for mercy, compassion or
justice.

The attack on the holidaymakers comes amid suggestions that IS is trying to
convince its followers it is not in crisis, following reports of the injury of
leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and the death of acting head Abu Alaa al-Afri.
Killing sunbathing tourists is a cowardly way of simultaneously striking at the
West and its liberal values and an attempt to destabilise a fragile democracy.

Tunisia is the birthplace of the Arab Spring and secularists and Islamists alike
have participated in elections. A Truth and Dignity Commission is investigating
torture and human rights abuses of past decades.

This is a country which welcomed 6.1 million tourists in 2014. The creation of a
prosperous, tolerant Muslim-majority democracy on the Mediterranean is the
antithesis of what IS desires.

It has demonstrated in Libya its determination to export the brand of butchery
it has displayed so often in Syria and Iraq.

For IS to gain control of territory it needs to engineer the collapse of
society. In Tunisia, the destruction of the tourist industry, responsible for
15.2% of GDP, would weaken the country and send unemployment surging; in Kuwait,
conflict between Sunnis and Shiites would drive fissures through the state.

The world needs to protect Tunisian democracy. The country was already reeling
from the killing of 22 people in a Tunis museum in March, and extremists are
doubtless plotting future attacks.

Tunisia's friends need to display greater determination and intelligence than IS
and its allies in the battle to preserve civilisation. This is a country whose
airline just took delivery of an Airbus A330-200 - it aspires to play a full
role in the modern economy, and we should do everything possible to make this
dream a reality.

Defeating terrorists involves more than hunting down henchmen with drones. We
need to ensure that prosperity and liberty in Tunisia is not crushed; the
tourism industry must be rescued; this terror must be defied.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Western Morning News

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

Businessman beheaded in France during factory terror attack

SECTION: AGENCY:OTHER; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 357  words


An attacker with suspected ties to French Islamic radicals has rammed a car into
a gas factory in France, and the severed head of a local businessman was hung
from a post at the entrance, officials said.

Two more people were injured in the attack in in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier,
south-east of Lyon, authorities said.

President Francois Hollande, speaking in Brussels, said the attack began when a
car crashed through the gate of the factory and ploughed into gas canisters,
touching off an explosion.

"No doubt about the intention - to cause an explosion," Mr Hollande said,
calling the attack "of a terrorist nature".

Interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve said a man who had been flagged in 2006 for
suspected ties to extremists was seized by an alert firefighter, and was one of
multiple people in custody after the attack.

A security official said the 55-year-old   victim was the head of a local
transportation company who is believed to have been killed before the explosion.
His name was not released.

Authorities said his body was found near the site of the attack.

Mr Cazeneuve said: "People who could have participated in this abject crime are
in custody."

He added that the suspect was known to intelligence services who had him under
surveillance from 2006 to 2008. The man is from the Lyon region, he said.

The head was found staked on a gate at the factory's entrance, in what appeared
to be an echo of the Islamic State group's practice of beheading prisoners and
displaying their heads for all to see.

An official said two flags - one white and one black, both with Arabic
inscriptions - were found nearby.

France's anti-terror prosecutor said an investigation had been opened and
potential charges included plotting as part of "a terrorist group".

Mr Hollande spoke after watching TV news reports about the attack with German
chancellor Angela Merkel as both leaders attended a European Union summit in
Brussels.

The industrial site belongs to Air Products, a US chemical company based in
Allentown, Pennsylvania.

Air Products says all its employees are accounted but has not confirmed whether
its staff were among the two people reported injured.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Worcester News

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

UPDATED: University of Worcester student killed in Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Chris Plant

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 335 words


UPDATED 8.30PM

A University of Worcester student and "exceptionally" talented teenage
footballer and referee has been killed in the terror attack in Tunisia.

Joel Richards, 19 and from Wednesbury, in the Black Country, is among the 15
Brits killed in the gun attack in the popular beach resort of Sousse.

His friend, Reece Watters, has paid tribute to Joel, saying he "helped everyone
he ever come in contact with".

He posted on his Facebook page: "Theres no status or no words I could put here
that could describe to you how much of a kind guy Joel Richards was, if you knew
him personally you would know how respected he was and how he played such a big
part in many peoples lives.

"He never had anything bad to say about anybody, people would never argue with
him because of how likeable Joel was. He helped everyone he ever come in contact
with, even when it involved putting others before himself.

"It's so heartbreaking to think that he was on holiday when some scum decided to
do what he did to all those people including Joel. Rest In Peace bro,one of the
best mates I could ever have.

"You might be gone but you will never be forgotten."

The football team Joel played for, James Connollys GFC, has also paid its
tributes.

A club statement said: "James Connollys GFC is devastated to learn of the death
of one of our players, Joel Richards, during the horrific events in Tunisia on
Friday.

"Joel was an exceptionally talented footballer, who represented both club and
county with conviction on numerous occasions. He will be sadly missed.

Details of his funeral arrangements will follow; our thoughts are with his
family and friends at this tragic time."

He started at the University in 2013 and was due to graduate next year.

He was also well known throughout the young referee circuit in the West
Midlands, and was a fan of Walsall FC.

* More will follow on this story. Did you know Joel? Email
news@worcesternews.co.uk or call 01905 742248.

* Follow our LIVE coverage and leave your tributes by using this link.



LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

UPDATED: Majority of those killed in Tunisia terror attack are British

LENGTH: 1192  words


The majority of those killed when a gunman opened fire on holidaymakers were
British, Tunisia's prime minister has reportedly said. after a day of bloody
attacks by Islamic fundamentalists across Europe and the Middle East.

Five of the 38 dead have so far been confirmed as Britons by Foreign Secretary
Philip Hammond, as he warned that number could rise due to the popularity of the
area with tourists from the UK.

Tunisian PM Habib Essid has since reportedly told a news conference that the
majority of victims were British, followed by Germans, Belgians and other
nationalities.

Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack in which a
young man pulled out a Kalashnikov hidden in a beach parasol and shot at
sunbathers in Sousse.

Mr Hammond said yesterday: "We have to assume that a high proportion of those
killed and injured will have been British".

SITE Intel Group, which monitors the jihadist threat, tweeted: "#ISIS claimed
credit for the Tunisia hotel attack in Sousse and identified the attacker as Abu
Yahya al-Qayrawani."

An Irish mother-of-two who was shot dead was named locally as Lorna Carty, from
Robinstown, Co Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

David Cameron said the UK stands "shoulder to shoulder" with Tunisia in the
battle against terrorism.

Mr Hammond chaired an emergency Cobra meeting yesterday, and another one will be
held this morning to look at the UK's response to the three attacks.

A consular team is in Sousse, and two rapid response teams were travelling to
the region overnight, he said.

The attack came on the same day a man was found decapitated after an attack by
suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait
was bombed killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked they come after the
so-called Islamic State called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of
calamities for the nonbelievers".

Tunisia's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons, as well
as Tunisians, Germans and Belgians. Thirty six others have been wounded.

Bodies covered in blankets were strewn across the beach and medical staff used
sun loungers as stretchers to carry away the dead and injured.

Despite initially believing there was more than one gunman, the Tunisian
authorities later said the killer was thought to be a young student who had not
previously been known to their security services.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach at the Riu Bellevue Park.

His killing spree ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his
body.

In Grenoble, French authorities have revealed that one of the suspected Islamic
terrorists accused of carrying out the attack was known to police.

The victim's severed head was found stalked on a gate at the entrance of a gas
factory in the town in south west France, with a message written on it,
reportedly in Arabic.

The atrocities prompted Prime Minister David Cameron to return to the UK from
the European Council summit in Brussels while the the Government's emergency
Cobra committee was convened to discuss the situation.

Mr Cameron said he had spoken to French president Francois Hollande to offer his
support following the French attack in the town of Grenoble and said he would
also speak to the Tunisian government.

He said: "This is a threat that faces all of us. These events have taken place
today in Tunisia and in France but they can happen anywhere. We all face this
threat.

"Perhaps more important than anything is poisonous radical narrative that is
turning so many young minds and we have to combat it with everything we have."

The Prime Minister said that the West must stop "the poisoning of ... young
minds" by Islamic State (IS) and other extremists.

The Foreign Office said it was "urgently" working with travel firms in Tunisia
and had despatched a British Embassy team to the site of the atrocity.

A spokesman said: "We are urgently working with tour operators and local
authorities in Tunisia to gather and confirm information on those affected by
this attack.

"A team from the British Embassy in Tunis is on its way to the area to support
any British nationals needing assistance."

Ellie Makin, from Ripon, who was on holiday with her friend Debbie Horsfall from
Huddersfield, when she saw a gunman pull a weapon from an umbrella right next to
them on the beach while they were sunbathing.

She told ITV News: "He was to the right of me because we were on the last sun
bed on the beach. All of a sudden I got up anyway and just happened to look
right and all I saw was a gun and an umbrella being dropped.

"Then he started firing to the right hand side of us.

"If he had fired to the left I don't know what would have happened, but we were
very lucky."

Thomas Cook, which has holidaymakers in the resort, said: "Thomas Cook has been
advised of an incident that occurred earlier today in Sousse, Tunisia.

"At this time, details are not clear as to which property(ies) have been
affected, with conflicting news reports.

"We are currently gathering information and will provide an update as soon as
possible. Our teams on the ground are offering every support to our customers
and their families in the area.

"We will continue to monitor the situation, working closely with the FCO and
local authorities.

British holidaymaker Gary Pine is staying in the El Mouradi Palm Marina hotel
close to where the incident happened.

Situated at the back of the hotel, near the pool area, he told Sky News by phone
that he could no longer hear any noise and said the hotel was "very, very quiet"
at that stage, but said it would have been very busy.

"The beach tends to be full up very quickly so it's the usual story of getting
down to lay your towel at half past six to get a decent beach position, so all
of the beach positions were taken," he said.

"Anyone with concerns about family or friends can call the Department on 01 408
2000."

FACTFILE:

o Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis.

o Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn by the hotels,
sandy beaches and culture.

oHotel complexes with 40,000 beds span from the old city to the Port El Kantaoui
and the city is home to a Unesco-protected mosque, as well as a historic medina.

oBoujaafar Beach stretches from the Gulf of Hammamet several miles north to Port
El Kantaoui - a purpose-built resort with dozens of hotels including the El
Mouradi Palm Marina, El Mouradi Palace and Riu Imperial Marhaba.

Read more...

{http://www.yorkshirepost.co.uk/news/main-topics/general-news/british-woman-kill
ed-in-tunisia-shootings-1-7164296 | March 2015: Yorkshire woman dies in Tunisia
terror attack | March 2015: Yorkshire woman dies in Tunisia terror attack}

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

UPDATED: Tunisia terror attack death toll rises to 15 as PM warns majority of
those killed are British

LENGTH: 1266  words


tHE NUMBER of Britons killed in yesterday's Tunisian beach terror attack now
stands at 15 with the majority of the 39 victims said by the Prime Minister to
be British.

David Cameron warned that the public needs to be prepared for the fact that
"many of those killed" in the "savage" Tunisian shooting were Britons.

He spoke as reports from Tunisia suggested that the UK death toll had risen to
eight out of 39 people killed in the popular resort of Sousse.

Mr Cameron said a "full deployment team" of consular staff, police and experts
from the Red Cross would arrive in the North African country today to help the
victims and their families and the Government was doing "all we can to" help
them.

Speaking in Downing Street, he said: "These savage terrorist attacks in Tunisia,
Kuwait and France are a brutal and tragic reminder of the threat faced around
the world from these evil terrorists."

Five of the dead have so far been confirmed as Britons by Foreign Secretary
Philip Hammond, as he warned that number could rise due to the popularity of the
area with tourists from the UK.

Tunisian PM Habib Essid has since reportedly told a news conference that the
majority of victims were British, followed by Germans, Belgians and other
nationalities.

Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack in which a
young man pulled out a Kalashnikov hidden in a beach parasol and shot at
sunbathers in Sousse.

SITE Intel Group, which monitors the jihadist threat, tweeted: "#ISIS claimed
credit for the Tunisia hotel attack in Sousse and identified the attacker as Abu
Yahya al-Qayrawani."

An Irish mother-of-two who was shot dead was named locally as Lorna Carty, from
Robinstown, Co Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

Mr Hammond chaired an emergency Cobra meeting yesterday, and another one will be
held this morning to look at the UK's response to the three attacks.

A consular team is in Sousse, and two rapid response teams were travelling to
the region overnight, he said.

The attack came on the same day a man was found decapitated after an attack by
suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait
was bombed killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked they come after the
so-called Islamic State called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of
calamities for the nonbelievers".

Tunisia's Health Ministry confirmed that those killed included Britons, as well
as Tunisians, Germans and Belgians. Thirty six others have been wounded.

Bodies covered in blankets were strewn across the beach and medical staff used
sun loungers as stretchers to carry away the dead and injured.

Despite initially believing there was more than one gunman, the Tunisian
authorities later said the killer was thought to be a young student who had not
previously been known to their security services.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach at the Riu Bellevue Park.

His killing spree ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his
body.

In Grenoble, French authorities have revealed that one of the suspected Islamic
terrorists accused of carrying out the attack was known to police.

The victim's severed head was found stalked on a gate at the entrance of a gas
factory in the town in south west France, with a message written on it,
reportedly in Arabic.

The atrocities prompted Prime Minister David Cameron to return to the UK from
the European Council summit in Brussels while the the Government's emergency
Cobra committee was convened to discuss the situation.

Mr Cameron said he had spoken to French president Francois Hollande to offer his
support following the French attack in the town of Grenoble and said he would
also speak to the Tunisian government.

He said: "This is a threat that faces all of us. These events have taken place
today in Tunisia and in France but they can happen anywhere. We all face this
threat.

"Perhaps more important than anything is poisonous radical narrative that is
turning so many young minds and we have to combat it with everything we have."

The Prime Minister said that the West must stop "the poisoning of ... young
minds" by Islamic State (IS) and other extremists.

The Foreign Office said it was "urgently" working with travel firms in Tunisia
and had despatched a British Embassy team to the site of the atrocity.

A spokesman said: "We are urgently working with tour operators and local
authorities in Tunisia to gather and confirm information on those affected by
this attack.

"A team from the British Embassy in Tunis is on its way to the area to support
any British nationals needing assistance."

Ellie Makin, from Ripon, who was on holiday with her friend Debbie Horsfall from
Huddersfield, when she saw a gunman pull a weapon from an umbrella right next to
them on the beach while they were sunbathing.

She told ITV News: "He was to the right of me because we were on the last sun
bed on the beach. All of a sudden I got up anyway and just happened to look
right and all I saw was a gun and an umbrella being dropped.

"Then he started firing to the right hand side of us.

"If he had fired to the left I don't know what would have happened, but we were
very lucky."

Thomas Cook, which has holidaymakers in the resort, said: "Thomas Cook has been
advised of an incident that occurred earlier today in Sousse, Tunisia.

"At this time, details are not clear as to which property(ies) have been
affected, with conflicting news reports.

"We are currently gathering information and will provide an update as soon as
possible. Our teams on the ground are offering every support to our customers
and their families in the area.

"We will continue to monitor the situation, working closely with the FCO and
local authorities.

British holidaymaker Gary Pine is staying in the El Mouradi Palm Marina hotel
close to where the incident happened.

Situated at the back of the hotel, near the pool area, he told Sky News by phone
that he could no longer hear any noise and said the hotel was "very, very quiet"
at that stage, but said it would have been very busy.

"The beach tends to be full up very quickly so it's the usual story of getting
down to lay your towel at half past six to get a decent beach position, so all
of the beach positions were taken," he said.

"Anyone with concerns about family or friends can call the Department on 01 408
2000."

FACTFILE:

o Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis.

o Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn by the hotels,
sandy beaches and culture.

oHotel complexes with 40,000 beds span from the old city to the Port El Kantaoui
and the city is home to a Unesco-protected mosque, as well as a historic medina.

oBoujaafar Beach stretches from the Gulf of Hammamet several miles north to Port
El Kantaoui - a purpose-built resort with dozens of hotels including the El
Mouradi Palm Marina, El Mouradi Palace and Riu Imperial Marhaba.

Read more...

{http://www.yorkshirepost.co.uk/news/main-topics/general-news/british-woman-kill
ed-in-tunisia-shootings-1-7164296 | March 2015: Yorkshire woman dies in Tunisia
terror attack | March 2015: Yorkshire woman dies in Tunisia terror attack}

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                             June 27, 2015 Saturday

UPDATED: Yorkshire man confirmed among the dead in Tunisia terror attack

LENGTH: 513  words


A man from Goole is said to be among the 15 confirmed dead in the Tunisian
terror attack, with the majority of the 39 victims said by the Prime Minister to
be British.

Bruce Wilkinson, from Goole,  is widely reported to have been killed in the
attack.

The town's MP Andrew Percy, tweeted: "Sad to learn yesterday of the death of a
constituent in Tunisia. With names now released I am sure all our thoughts are
with family here."

There was relief for Carol Mulhall, from Doncaster, who finally heard her
parents Margaret and Dougie Lamb were safe.

She had shared their photos with the BBC after failing to get hold of them
following the atrocity and someone at the embassy in Tunisia recognised the
couple and made contact with Ms Mulhall via Facebook.

She said: "I have never felt so thankful for anything in my life."

David Cameron warned that the public needs to be prepared for the fact that
"many of those killed" in the "savage" Tunisian shooting were Britons.

He spoke as reports from Tunisia suggested that the UK death toll had risen to
eight out of 39 people killed in the popular resort of Sousse.

Mr Cameron said a "full deployment team" of consular staff, police and experts
from the Red Cross would arrive in the North African country today to help the
victims and their families and the Government was doing "all we can to" help
them.

Speaking in Downing Street, he said: "These savage terrorist attacks in Tunisia,
Kuwait and France are a brutal and tragic reminder of the threat faced around
the world from these evil terrorists."

Five of the dead have so far been confirmed as Britons by Foreign Secretary
Philip Hammond, as he warned that number could rise due to the popularity of the
area with tourists from the UK.

Tunisian PM Habib Essid has since reportedly told a news conference that the
majority of victims were British, followed by Germans, Belgians and other
nationalities.

Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack in which a
young man pulled out a Kalashnikov hidden in a beach parasol and shot at
sunbathers in Sousse.

SITE Intel Group, which monitors the jihadist threat, tweeted: "#ISIS claimed
credit for the Tunisia hotel attack in Sousse and identified the attacker as Abu
Yahya al-Qayrawani."

A

FACTFILE:

o Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis.

o Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn by the hotels,
sandy beaches and culture.

oHotel complexes with 40,000 beds span from the old city to the Port El Kantaoui
and the city is home to a Unesco-protected mosque, as well as a historic medina.

oBoujaafar Beach stretches from the Gulf of Hammamet several miles north to Port
El Kantaoui - a purpose-built resort with dozens of hotels including the El
Mouradi Palm Marina, El Mouradi Palace and Riu Imperial Marhaba.

Read more...

{http://www.yorkshirepost.co.uk/news/main-topics/general-news/british-woman-kill
ed-in-tunisia-shootings-1-7164296 | March 2015: Yorkshire woman dies in Tunisia
terror attack | March 2015: Yorkshire woman dies in Tunisia terror attack}

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

Iran senior clerics slam terrorist attack on Kuwait mosque

LENGTH: 186 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 28 June: A number of grand Shi'i sources of emulation have condemned the
deadly attack on a Shi'i mosque in Kuwait.

On Friday [26 June], at least 27 people (including three Iranians) were killed
and more than 200 others injured in the suicide bombing at Imam Sadiq (AS)
Mosque in Kuwait City.

The Takfiri ISIL terrorist group claimed responsibility for the attack.

Grand Ayatollahs Vahid-Khorasani, SafiGolpayegani, and Makarem-Shirazi in
separate statements denounced the attack and expressed sympathy with the
families of the victims.

Grand Ayatollah Makarem-Shirazi in his statement underlined that if Muslims get
united it will be easy to uproot terrorists, adding that they had better do it
today rather than tomorrow.

He also called on the government of Kuwait to bring those behind the tragic even
to justice.

The Association of Qom Seminary's Instructors also released a statement
condemning the 'barbaric' attack by the Takfiri group. (IQNA)

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 0920 gmt 28 Jun
15

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

Oman condemns Tunisia terror attack

LENGTH: 512 words


Text of report in English by Oman Daily Observer website on 28 June

[Unattributed editorial: "OMAN CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACKS"]

Oman vehemently condemned the two terror attacks which occurred in Tunisia and
France on Friday.

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement strongly condemning the
terror attacks in the Tunisian resort town of Sousse and at a gas plant in
southeastern France killing and injuring many. The Sultanate affirmed its full
condemnation to these heinous terror activities and renewed its call for
concerted efforts by all regional and international players to confront the
phenomenon of terrorism which threatens the whole world and humankind, the
statement added.

The Sultanate offered sincere condolences to the families of the victims wishing
the injured speedy recovery.

Earlier, Oman has strongly condemned the atrocious terror blast which targeted
the Imam Sadiq Mosque in the sisterly state of Kuwait, killing a number of
innocent people while performing Friday prayers. The ministry issued a statement
affirming the Sultanate's total rejection of all forms of violence and terrorism
and renewing its solidarity with the people and government of Kuwait in
confronting such heinous crimes against innocent people.

Meanwhile, the number of Britons confirmed to have died in an attack on a
Tunisian beach hotel has risen to 15 and could rise further, junior Foreign
Office Minister Tobias Ellwood said in London on Saturday.

A total of 39 people were killed in Friday's attack by a gunman on the hotel in
the resort of Sousse, according to Tunisian authorities. A German, a Belgian and
an Irish national were also among the victims.

Ellwood said it was the "most significant" attack on British people since
bombings on the London transport system on 7 July, 2005.

Tour companies were evacuating thousands of foreign holidaymakers from Tunisia
on Saturday.

It was the second big attack in the North African country this year, following
an assault on the Bardo Museum in Tunis in March when gunmen killed a group of
foreign visitors as they arrived by bus.

Tunisia's tourism minister called Friday's attack, in one of the country's most
popular resorts for Europeans, a "catastrophe" for the vital industry and
authorities vowed to toughen security, drafting in army reserves and arming
tourism police at beaches and hotels.

Kuwait detained the owner of a car which took a bomber to a mosque to carry out
the country's worst ever militant attack, officials said on Saturday, as
thousands calling for national unity turned out to bury some of the 27 killed.

Militant group IS claimed responsibility for the suicide bombing against 2,000
worshippers praying at the Imam al-Sadiq mosque on Friday [26 June], one of
three attacks on three continents that day apparently linked to hardline group.

In Tunisia, a gunman killed 37 people including Western tourists on a beach, and
in France a decapitated body was found after an attacker rammed his car into a
gas container, triggering an explosion.

Source: Oman Daily Observer website, Muscat, in English 28 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

Pan-Arab paper examines "terrorist attacks" in Kuwait, Tunisia, France, Somalia

LENGTH: 896 words


Text of report by London-based Al-Quds al-Arabi newspaper website on 26 June

[Editorial: "Four Attacks, Three Continents, And One Terrorism"]

From the Al-Imam al-Sadiq Mosque in the Al-Sawabir district in the centre of the
city of Kuwait to the Imperial Marhaba Hotel in the Tunisian city of Sousse, and
from the area of Leego, southern Somalia, to the area of Saint-Quentin-Fallavier
near Lyon in France, the blood map scatters among three continents, but it draws
features of one ugly face called terrorism.

It is a distinctive, unmatched day, although there is no evidence of prior
coordination among those simultaneous terrorist attacks that are separated by
thousands of miles and that resulted in dozens killed or wounded. This causes a
double shock and a lot of sadness, especially since they coincide with Ramadan,
which is supposed to be the month of mercy and tolerance and which has all of a
sudden turned into a season for ugly executions and massacres at the hands of
those terrorists.

Yesterday, terrorism declared an open war on a front that does not recognize
borders. It used several means of killing, from suicide attacks in Kuwait and
Somalia and firearms in Tunisia to decapitation in France. The diversity of the
victims of the attacks yesterday, from the Shi'i worshippers in Kuwait, the
tourists in Tunisia, the peacekeeping troops in Somalia, to civilians in France,
indicates that we are faced with terrorism of a racist sectarian and
transcontinental nature that does not observe any religion, sanctity, covenant,
or pledge.

Of course, these attacks are not the first of their kind and they will not be
the last. However, their simultaneity and the danger of the messages they send
are enough to raise fear. This is how they were seen, at least by European
states, which immediately raised the level of security readiness, particularly
with the approach of the season of summer holidays. Meanwhile, the EU has
decided to draw up a new strategy for fighting terrorism, and the German TV
channels immediately interrupted their scheduled programmes to broadcast
programmes and films on this phenomenon.

As for the Arab states, they were either satisfied with denunciation and
condemnation or fell dead silent. Tunisian President Beji Caid Essebsi was right
when he said explicitly that "Tunisia cannot fight terrorism alone." This raises
an obvious question about whether the time has come for the Arabs to adopt a
unified and comprehensive strategy to face this cancer.

The danger of any of the attacks that occurred yesterday cannot be exaggerated.
In Kuwait, the massacre of the Al-Imam al-Sadiq Mosque indicated that the
elements of the ISIL [Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant] organization, which
claimed responsibility for the unmatched attack, were able to infiltrate into
the country and perhaps form their cells, after they decided to target the
peaceful coexistence among the components of the Kuwait people. The visit of
Sheikh Sabah al-Ahmad, amir of Kuwait, to the site of the attack, few hours
after it occurred, despite the security danger, was a wise, courageous political
move, through which he wanted to affirm that the state will not differentiate
among its citizens, in terms of its duty to protect them.

The Kuwait attack is a straight extension of attacks that targeted mosques for
the Shi'is in Al-Mintaqah ash Sharqiyah of Saudi Arabia a few weeks ago. This
indicates that the organization is implementing a broader plan that might extend
to other states.

In Tunisia, the large number of victims in this tragedy (37 killed until the
writing of these lines) indicates the success of terrorism in dealing a fatal
blow to the tourism season, which the national economy depends on, amid the
aggravation of the problems of poverty and unemployment. The terrorist attacks
witnessed by Tunisia cannot be separated from Libya's suffering from the spread
of chaos and the domination of the terrorist groups on cities and vast areas to
the point that it has become a source of real threat to regional security, and,
in fact, international security as well, after the threats of the ISIL
organization there to send thousands of its members to Europe by sea.

In Somalia, the massacre that claimed the lives of around 50 elements of the
African peacekeeping forces sounds the alarm about the widening of the state of
chaos in that country, which has a strategic location, in a manner that might
threaten shipping in the Red Sea, let alone the spread of the unrest to
neighbouring states.

In France, the killing of a human by decapitating him, then writing words on it
in Arabic, and putting an Islamic flag next to it is an action, which words are
not enough to describe its brutality, even if all terrorist actions are ugly and
heinous. However, this incident sends a message to the West in particular that
greatly distorts the image of Islam and its adherents and the Arabs and their
language.

Finally, there is no doubt that the Muslims worldwide will, one way or another,
pay the price for all these terrorist actions, to which there should be a
concerted response on the Arab and international levels according to a
comprehensive strategy, in which the cultural, political, and economic tracks
are parallel to the security and military tracks, irrespective of any bilateral
disagreements.

Source: Al-Quds al-Arabi website, London, in Arabic  26 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 1:47 PM GMT

Wednesbury teen hailed Tunisia terror attack hero;
Justgiving page set up for Owen Richards, 16, who helped woman after his three
relatives were shot dead

BYLINE: By Kvatch Scheduled-Task

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1037 words


A JustGiving page has been set up to raise funds for Midland teenager Owen
Richards who was hailed a hero for helping an injured British woman, despite
losing three members of his own family in Tunisia.

Owen, 16, was injured and lost his brother Joel, 19, his uncle, Adrian Evans, 49
and his grandad Patrick, 78, in the attack.

The family are from the Black Country and just three months ago travelled to
Wembley to watch Walsall against Bristol City in the Johnstone's Paint Trophy
final.

The JustGiving appeal has been set up by the Darren Wright Foundation, which
helps children with a disability or life limiting illness. The total has been
set at £500. The page says: "This fund is to show support and love to a great
individual at this sad time."

For details click here

Live: Tunisia terror attacks devastate Midland families

Owen Richards was found by medics sitting on grass near the beach where at least
15 Britons were shot dead by IS fanatic Seifeddine Rezgui.

His three relatives were murdered in front of him.

Owen was found after a bullet nicked his shoulder and fatally hit one of his
relatives.

He was on a grassed area bravely trying to help a woman with a bullet wound to
her back.

As he was treated by medics, the schoolboy sobbed: "I have to call my mum".

His heartbreak was revealed today as pictures emerged of mass killer Rezgui, 24,
calmly walking away from the slaughter on the beach at Sousse on Friday.

The student murdered at least 39 holidaymakers with a Kalashnikov automatic
rifle before being shot dead by Tunisian police.

The British death toll is feared to be higher as at least half a dozen couples
are still missing, with UK relatives desperately seeking information.

Medic Fakher Ben Amor, from the Cliniques Les Oliviers hospital where at least
23 wounded British patients received treatment, helped teenager Owen when he was
admitted.

Mr Amor said: "He had a small injury to his shoulder. He was talking about a
bullet coming over his shoulder.

"He was talking about his mother who is in England and he spoke to her on the
phone.

"When we found him he was with another woman, he was helping her because she had
an injury to her back.

"He was crying and he was wearing shorts and t-shirt. He was really shocked and
upset."

Owen lived in a terrace home in Wednesbury with his mum Suzy, 46, and doomed
brother Joel.

A former next-door neighbour of Suzy said: "It was a lads' only trip. I've been
told that Patrick, Joel and Adrian have all died but that Owen is alive.

"Suzy is still here in the UK. She has been told that she should wait here for
them to come home rather than go out to Tunisia because it is too dangerous. She
must be in a terrible state."

Joel and Owen's dad Spencer, 46, who is understood to have divorced Suzy around
ten years ago, lives nearby.

More than a dozen people gathered at the home of murdered Patrick and his wife
Maureen, 71, also nearby.

A woman who answered the door there said: "We are not prepared to say anything
at this stage."

Joel played for James Connollys GFC, a Gaelic football club from Warwickshire.

A club spokesman said: "Joel was an exceptionally talented footballer who
represented both club and county with conviction on numerous occasions. He will
be sadly missed."

Uncle Adrian, who lived alone in Bilston, worked for Sandwell Council as a
manager in the gas services department.

Sandwell Council leader Darren Cooper said: "Adrian Evans was a very popular and
long-serving employee who was manager of our Gas Services Team.

"We are absolutely devastated for Adrian's family, friends and colleagues and
our thoughts are with them and all those affected by this tragedy."

Midlanders Sue Davey and Scott Chalkley were also murdered in the massacre.

The sons of the couple took to social media to appeal for information about them
and then to, sadly, announce their deaths.

Sue's son Colin Fulford, from Tamworth, said on Facebook: "Again thank you for
willing me and my family on but unfortunately we lost the battle to keep mu mom
in our lives but don't worry mom I'm there and so is Darren Fulford to look
after our two girls Chloe Lea Fulford and Rosy Fulford and all of our family.
Love you for ever."

Tunisia attack

Another of the British dead is internet beauty blogger Carly Lovett who escaped
from the gunman on the beach but was killed when he threw a grenade into the
lobby of the Hotel Imperial Marhaba.

Gifted photographer Carly, 24, became separated from her fiance Liam Moore in
the terror and made it back to hotel only for Rezgui to follow and hurl the
grenade.

Survivor Liam phoned parents Christopher and Helen tell them he was safe and
promised to call back once he found Carly.

Carly got engaged to Liam, 24, last Christmas and they had been dating each
other since they were 14.

The couple left their home in Gainsborough, Lincs, for a two-week holiday in
Sousse on Tuesday.

A friend, who asked not to be named, said: "The family are absolutely
devastated.

"Liam called his parents because he knew they would be worried but said he had
become separated from Carly.

"He promised to call back once he'd found her. But then Carly's mum got a call
to say her daughter was dead.

"Apparently she'd made it from the beach but was in the hotel lobby when the
terrorist came in and threw a grenade.

"It's an absolute tragedy She was such a friendly, lovely girl."

A police worker told how his wife's glasses case saved her life when the gunman
opened fire.

Tony Callaghan and his wife Christine, from Norfolk are among those who were
wounded.

Speaking from his ­hospital bed, Mr Callaghan showed the damaged glasses case
and bag that took the full impact of the bullets.

He said he ­recognised the sound of gunfire immediately from his days serving in
the RAF and shouted a warning to other holidaymakers.

"I shouted that it wasn't a firework display and that people needed to get to
safety now. I remember one old man wandering in a daze and I told him he needed
to get going.

"I saw four bodies as I ran from the swimming pool to the hotel where luckily I
found my wife hiding behind the reception desk.

"We then made our way to the back of the hotel but came to a dead end and heard
more shooting. That's when a bullet grazed my leg and my wife was also shot in
the leg."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 10:52 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack - sons announce death of parents on Twitter;
Conor Fulford, from Tamworth, and Ross Naylor, from Dudley, pay tribute to their
parents murdered in massacre at holiday resort

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1307 words


The devastated sons of a Midland couple killed in the Tunisian gun massacre
announced their deaths on Twitter last night.

Conor Fulford, 23, and Ross Naylor immediately posted on social media after the
gun attack for news of Sue Davey and Scott Chalkley - both 42 - who were in
Sousse on holiday together.

But Conor, who is Sue's son, and Ross, who is Scott's, updated Twitter last
night (Saturday, June 27) to announce their tragic deaths.

The two sons had begged for help to find their respective parents in the
aftermath of the gun attack - but have now revealed that both were tragically
killed.

The couple were staying at the Imperial Hotel in Sousse, Tunisia, where the
warped shooter gunned down Western tourists with an assault rifle hidden under
an umbrella.

Live: Tunisia terror attacks devastate Midland families

Sue and Scott, who both worked for Severn Trent Water, were enjoying their dream
holiday after recently buying a house together.

Conor, from Tamworth, took to Twitter  saying: "Hi Everyone, Sorry to tell you
we lost my mother Sue Davey tonight but i want to thank everybody that tried to
help me &amp; my family ..."

Ross said on Facebook: "Tonight me and Brad lost our dad. Unfortunately he was
caught up in the sickening attack in Tunisia and is not longer with us.

"I'm sure many of you have seen the news about Sue aswell so all I ask is that
people let both families grieve in peace."

Please take the time to read this [#x2764] pic.twitter.com/xXvcJ1J3yu

- A$AP ROSSI (@rossinaylor) June 27, 2015

It comes after it was tragically revealed that three members of the same Black
Country family are reported to have been killed in the Tunisian gun massacre
after grandfather Patrick Evans was named as the sixth British victim.

Mr Evans is understood to be the father of Adrian Evans, and the grandfather of
Joel Richards, 19, both of who died in the attack at the resort of Sousse on
Friday.

Hi Everyone, Sorry to tell you we lost my mother Sue Davey tonight but i want to
thank everybody that tried to help me &amp; my family ...

- Conor Fulford (@ConorFulford) June 27, 2015

Joel, a student at the University of Worcester, died alongside his uncle Adrian.

Carly Lovett, from Lincoln, Bruce Wilkinson, from Goole, East Yorkshire, and
Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham, Tyne and Wear are also among the dead.

Joel and his uncle Adrian were keen supporters of Walsall Football Club while
Joel was also a talented referee "with the world at his feet."

In a statement, Birmingham County FA said: "Joel was an active member of the
Birmingham County FA youth council.

"A young talented referee with the world at his feet, he was highly thought of
and will be sadly missed.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends at this time."

The teenager's Facebook profile picture shows him standing on Wembley Way when
the League One side played there earlier this year.

A post was also uploaded on fans' forum site Vital Walsall paying tribute to the
tragic victims.

It said: "We are saddened to report that Walsall fans Adrian Evans and Joel
Richards have been reported to be amongst the victims of the Tunisia terrorist
attacks.

"Adrian, Joel and another family member who is yet to be named were on the beach
in Sousse when a terrorist started shooting.

"Our deepest condolences and prayers are with their family and friends at this
deeply sad time.

"Fellow Saddlers you will be forever in our hearts."

Mr Evans worked as a manager for Sandwell Council in the West Midlands, based in
its gas services department.

A council source described the news as "horrendous" and said their thoughts were
with the family and council colleagues.

A council source said Mr Evans had worked for the council for 32 years, and was
on his first day of a holiday in Tunisia.

He was due to spend seven days in the African country before a week's stay in
France.

The source said: "When I heard about it I was very sickened. To have someone so
close to you lost in such a way is terrible.

"He was a committed man who gave good service to the people of Sandwell."

It comes after 24-year-old Carly Lovett was the first British victim to be named
earlier today.

The newly engaged beauty blogger is believed to have been on holiday with her
fiance when she was killed.

The death toll in the terrorist attack at the beach resort of Sousse currently
stands at 38, with eight of the dead confirmed to be British.

But the Tunisian prime minister has warned that the "majority" of those killed
were British.

David Cameron echoed that earlier, saying that the country needed to prepare
itself for further news that "many of those killed would be British".

Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood warned that figure "may well rise" further,
adding that it was "the most significant terrorist attack on the British people"
since July 7, 2005, when 52 people were killed.

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

Tunisia attack

British police have flown to the resort to help identify victims, consular teams
are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected, and he said had spent
much of today on the phone with victims and families caught up in the "appalling
attack".

The death toll in the terrorist attack at the beach resort of Sousse currently
stands at 38, with eight of the dead confirmed to be British.

But the Tunisian prime minister has warned that the "majority" of those killed
were British.

David Cameron echoed that earlier, saying that the country needed to prepare
itself for further news that "many of those killed would be British".

The slaughter happened when a gunman, disguised as a tourist, opened fire on the
busy beach in the resort, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK
and Ireland.

Terror group Islamic State have claimed responsibility for the attack.

The gunman, identified as Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani, 23, was reportedly laughing as
he carried out the massacre and deliberately selected western tourists.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach.

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: "He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy. He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to
them, 'You go away'. He was choosing tourists, British, French."

Tunisia attack

Among the victims was also an Irish mother-of-two who was named locally as Lorna
Carty from Robinstown, County Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond gave details of the government response.

He said: "The situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can't be
sure exactly how many, but because of the nature of the composition of the
tourist population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high
proportion of those killed and injured will have been British."

It comes three months after mother-of-two Sally Adey, from Caynton, near
Shifnal, died in a terrorist attack in Tunis.

Mrs Adey, a retired solicitor, died in the shooting at the Bardo National Museum
in Tunisia on March 18.

She had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her 52-year-old husband Robert, who
survived the attack.

More than 20 people were killed in the attack, with 17 of those being cruise
ship passengers.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 10:23 AM GMT

Replay: Tunisia terror attacks devastate Midland families;
Latest reports on the massacre on the beach in the Tunisian tourist resort of
Sousse. Adrian Evans, his grandad Patrick Evans and nephew Joel Richards, from
the Black Country, and Sue Davey, from Tamworth, are among the dead

BYLINE: By Fionnuala Bourke

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 9 words


Live: Tunisia terror attacks devastate Midland families

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 6:24 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Family of Gateshead victim Lisa Burbidge pay tribute to
'amazing' person;
The family of Whickham grandmother-of-four Mrs Burbidge have paid tribute to her
after she was caught up in the Sousse beach massacre

BYLINE: By Michael Marsh

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 523 words


Loved ones of Tunisia beach massacre victim Lisa Burbidge have paid tribute to a
"beautiful, amazing, caring and gentle" person.

The grandmother-of-four, of Whickham, Gateshead, is among the casualties shot
dead at a resort in Sousse.

The UK death toll stands at 15 but officials fear it is likely to be in the mid
to high 20s, out of 38 victims in total.

Mrs Burbidge, who is in her 60s, was on holiday with her family when gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire at the Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba in the Port El
Kantaoui neighbourhood.

It is thought she had visited the resort six times in the past.

In a statement released on Sunday night, her family said: "We are devastated
with the tragic loss of the most beautiful, amazing, caring and gentle person in
our lives.

"We have been left with a massive hole in our hearts. She leaves behind many
family members including four fantastic grandchildren who were her world and
will miss her tremendously.

"We would like to thank everyone for their kind words and condolences but now
would ask that we are left to grieve privately to come to terms with our sad
loss."

Neighbours have also described her as a "lovely" and "friendly" lady who loved
her holidays.

Dinnerlady Ann Hailey, 68, said: "Lisa was lovely. I have known her for 40 years
and have lived opposite her for that time.

"We used to go to the pubs and clubs years ago and we had children of a similar
age.

"It's terrible what happened and it is obviously a difficult time for the
family. They will be devastated."

More tributes have been left online to Mrs Burbidge and other victims of the
tragedy. Writing on our Facebook page, Mrs Burbidge's granddaughter Chloe
Thompson said: "My angel, my best friend. Love you always grandma, rest in
peace."

Another neighbour, Andrea Thompson, said: "Can't believe it Chloe. I'm your
great grandma's next door neighbour and I found out earlier.

"Your grandma was a lovely friendly lady. Give my love to all your family."

Geoff Clay added: "Such terrible news. There are no words to describe how her or
all of the other victims' families and friends must be feeling right now.

"This is a terrible cowardly attack on normal day to day people enjoying their
well-earned holidays."

Tunisia terror attack: The scene in Sousse after the attack

The Queen has sent her "sincere condolences" to the families of those killed in
Friday's attack.

The monarch said she and the Duke of Edinburgh were "shocked" by the shootings
and she also offered their "deepest sympathy" to the injured.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office said on Sunday they were still waiting to
officially confirm the identities of the Britons killed, while Northumbria
Police confirmed its officers are offering support to the family of Mrs
Burbidge.

Home Secretary Theresa May has said there is no evidence that the gunman had
specifically targeted British tourists.

Jet2holidays and Jet2.com has cancelled all flights to and from Tunisia until
July 6 and said many holidaymakers were flown back to the UK on emergency
flights.

Thomson and First Choice said it had already expatriated 1,000 of its customers,
but added that there were still 5,400 remaining.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 4:56 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Blaydon MP brands brutal shootings a 'travesty of Islam';

Whickham grandmother Lisa Burbidge was killed on the North African beach on
Friday when a gunman opened fire in Sousse

BYLINE: By Rachel Wearmouth

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 302 words


The murder of 38 tourists in the brutal Tunisian terrorist attack was a
"travesty of Islam", a North East MP has said.

Whickham grandmother Lisa Burbidge has been named locally as being among 38
tourists brutally murdered in the shootings in the North African resort of
Sousse on Friday.

Blaydon MP Dave Anderson said he is on hand to support the family.

He said: "I've just found out about this and it must be a terrible shock to her
family and friends.

"This attack on innocent people is a travesty of Islam which is a religion based
on peace.

"I will support the family in any way I can at this time and I'm sure that the
prayers of all of us are with them."

Mr Burbidge was enjoying a sunshine break with family when cold-blooded gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui claimed her life.

The 23-year-old student's violent act of extremism has sent shockwaves across
the globe.

At least 15 Britons were among those he killed before security forces shot him
dead.

David Cameron is expected to make a statement in the House of Commons on Monday
updating the country on events in Tunisia.

Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood described the tragedy as "the most significant
terrorist attack on the British people" since July 7, 2005, when 52 people were
killed in the London Underground bombings.

He said: "Sadly, I can confirm that at least 15 British nationals were killed in
yesterday's atrocity but I should stress that the number may well rise as
several more have been seriously injured in this horrific attack."

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office today said they were still waiting to
officially confirm the identities of the British killed in the incident.

A spokeswoman for Northumbria Police today said: "We can confirm that support is
being given by officers to the family of a woman from the Whickham area killed
in the Tunisia attack."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 4:51 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Flags to be flown at half mast in tribute to Gateshead
grandmother and other victims;
Government bosses say the number of British people thought to have been killed
in beach massacre will probably increase

BYLINE: By Craig Thompson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 319 words


Downing Street's will be flown at half mast in memory of Gateshead grandmother
Lisa Burbidge and the other victims of the Tunisian terror attack.

Officials fear the UK death toll from Friday's gun attack is likely to be in the
mid to high 20s, out of 38 victims in total.

Mrs Burbidge, of Whickham, Gateshead, has been named locally as one of those
killed in the shootings in the holiday resort of Sousse on Friday.

A total of 38 people were killed in the attack at a beach resort, and an
unspecified number have been injured. The Foreign Office has the official UK
death toll at 15, but ministers have said this is likely to rise.

The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice to warn that further terrorist
attacks in Tunisia are possible, and urged people to be vigilant.

Speaking after she chaired a meeting of the government's emergency Cobra
committee, Home Secretary Theresa May said Foreign Office staff were working
round the clock in Tunisia and a 24-hour crisis centre was up and running in the
UK.

The Foreign Office flag was lowered to half-mast in memory of the victims of
Friday's gun attack

Tour operator Thomson has 12 flights out of Tunisia today to bring people home
at the end of their holiday and repatriate others who wish to return to the UK
at the earliest opportunity.

Jet2holidays and Jet2.com said they deployed three 235-seat aircraft to Tunisia
on Saturday. Two returned to the UK the same night with 313 customers on board.
The third is on standby at Tunisia's Enfidha Airport.

Tunisia terror attack: The scene in Sousse after the attack

Rezgui, a Tunisian student who was not previously known to the authorities,
began his attack on tourists at noon on Friday. He had been posing as a swimmer
but carrying a rifle under a parasol.

Rezgui shot at people on the beach near the Imperial Marhaba and Bellevue
hotels. He then entered one of the hotel lobbies, where explosives were also
detonated.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 3:09 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack witness tells of horror after returning back home to
Newcastle;
Newcastle holidaymaker caught up in Tunisia beach massacre tells how she keeps
hearing "the gunfire" over and over again

BYLINE: By Craig Thompson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 450 words


A holidaymaker caught up in the Tunisian Terror shootings today told how she
"can't get the gun fire out of my head" as she relived the beach massacre.

Abbie Douglas, 19, from Wallsend, is finally back home on Tyneside after
returning on a special flight from the terror hit resort of Sousse.

Still in shock, Abbie was on Sunday being reunited with her family.

She said: "Now that I'm home, it's only starting to sink in what's happened. I
just keep hearing the gunshots going off again and again.

"When I was there I could deal with it, but now I'm back home it just keeps
coming into my head over and over.

"People kept saying, 'We understand how you feel,' but how could they? How many
people have been through this kind of thing before?"

Abbie and boyfriend Sam Younganan, 22, only arrived in the resort last
Wednesday. Less than 48 hours later, gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire,
killing at least 16 Britons.

The pair were sunbathing beside the pool at the Soviva Resort, which was
opposite the under fire Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba in the Port El Kantaoui
neighbourhood, when they heard the shots.

Abbie, who works in Sainsbury's in Heaton, Newcastle, took refuge in the hotel
and along with a group of fellow tourists, she and Sam blockaded themselves in.

The pair flew back to the UK on Saturday night, arriving at Leeds Bradford
Airport at 2am on Sunday where they were met by Sam's dad who drove them back up
to Newcastle.

Abbie said she is still coming to terms with the news.

She added: "I didn't know a woman from Gateshead had died, that's terrible.

"I think everything that's happened will take a while to sink in to be honest.

"I didn't get to be until after 4.30am but haven't had much sleep. I just want
to have a shower and to see my mum."

Tunisia terror attack: The scene in Sousse after the attack

Tour operators, including Thomson, Thomas Cook and easyJet have been scheduling
emergency flights to help evacuate tourists caught up in the terror.

Abbie and Sam had been due to catch a flight to Leeds at 6.30pm on Saturday
however, it was delayed until the early hours of Sunday morning. Special coaches
were then put on to return the holidaymakers back to the North East.

"It has been a long few days," said Abbie who had been due to stay in Tunisia
for two weeks. "I have a bit of time off still, so I'm just going to try and
relax as much as I can.

"I want to read all the stuff about what's happened, but at the same time I
don't. It's still all very strange."

Tributes have been paid across the world to the victims of the beach attack
which left 38 dead and has been described as the most significant terrorist
attack on British people since 52 were killed in the 7 July 2005 London
bombings.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:51 PM GMT

Tributes left to Gateshead terror attack victim Lisa Burbidge;
People from across the region have been paying tribute to Whickham grandmother
Lisa Burbidge, killed in the Tunisian terror attacks

BYLINE: By Craig Thompson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 322 words


Tributes are being paid to a Gateshead gran killed in the Tunisian terrorist
attacks.

Lisa Burbidge was killed in the shootings in the holiday resort of Sousse on
Friday.

Her grandaughter, Chloe Thompson, wrote on our Facebook page: "My angel, my best
friend, love you always grandma, rest in peace."

Scores of other people from across the region have been leaving messages in
support of Ms Burbidge's family and condemning the attacks which saw a
23-year-old Tunisian student firing at holidaymakers on a beach using the gun he
had hidden in a beach umbrella.

Writing on the Chronicle's Facebook page, Ben Johnson said: "How can these evil
people do such horrible horrific things. RIP to the lost and my heart goes out
to the survivors."

Wayne Cartner wrote: "Thoughts are with family and friends affected by these
mindless atrocities, rest in peace."

While Susan Saunders wrote: "Terribly sad news. It's awful for all the families
involved in this but on your doorstep becomes personal. May the families find
strength in knowing how much we are all thinking of them."

Kev Dent added: "It even hits home more when its one of our own that's lost."

Ms Burbidge was enjoying a break with her family at the time of the terror
attack.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office today said they were still waiting to
officially confirm the identities of the British killed in the incident.

A spokeswoman for Northumbria Police today said: "We can confirm that support is
being given by officers to the family of a woman from the Whickham area killed
in the Tunisia attack."

Up to 2,500 more people could return to the UK from Tunisia today, including
many to the North East, as part of holiday firms' efforts to get those on
holiday at the beach resort home as soon as possible.

Yesterday Thomson and First Choice said it had already expatriated 1,000 of its
customers after a gunman opened fire on a beach, but added that there were still
5,400 remaining.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 11:46 AM GMT

Tributes paid to victims of Tunisia terror attacks, including Gateshead mum;
Hundreds held candle-lit vigil close to where a gunman killed 15 British
holidaymakers, including Lisa Burbidge from Gateshead

BYLINE: By Craig Thompson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 246 words


Tributes are being paid to victims of the Tunisia beach attack including
Gateshead woman Lisa Burbidge.

It comes as the relatives of others still missing since the gun attack near
Sousse desperately await any news of their loved ones.

More than 1,000 British tourists have returned to the UK, while it is thought
2,500 more could fly home today, including many from the North East.

Hundreds of demonstrators gathered close to the scene a day after the attack for
a rally against terrorism, with some holding candles and others carrying flags
of the UK and Tunisia.

Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham, is believed to be among the 15 British tourists
killed on holiday in the resort of Sousse. The mum, believed to be in her 60s,
was enjoying a break with her family at the time of the terror attack.

Meanwhile, Home Secretary Theresa May is to chair a meeting of the government's
emergency Cobra committee later.

Tunisian student Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, who has links with Islamic State, opened
fire on tourists at noon on Friday.

Rezgui shot at people on the beach near the Imperial Marhaba and Bellevue
hotels. He then entered at least one of the hotel lobbies, where grenades were
also detonated.

He then walked through the streets of Sousse where he was reportedly chased by
local Tunisians, firing shots at them.

It has also been reported that local builders threw rubble down at him from
rooftops as he passed by in the street. The attack eventually ended when he was
shot dead by police.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 11:10 AM GMT

Police supporting family of Gateshead woman killed in Tunisia terrorist attacks;

Lisa Burbidge is believed to be among 15 British tourists killed in the Tunisian
resort of Sousse after gunman opened fire

BYLINE: By Craig Thompson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 558 words


Police say they are supporting the family of a Gateshead grandmother killed
during a terrorist attack in Tunisia.

Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham, is believed to be among the 15 British tourists
killed on holiday in the resort of Sousse.

Ms Burbidge was enjoying a break with her family at the time of the terror
attack.

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office today said they were still waiting to
officially confirm the identities of the British killed in the incident.

A spokeswoman for Northumbria Police today said: "We can confirm that support is
being given by officers to the family of a woman from the Whickham area killed
in the Tunisia attack."

Fifteen Britons have died following the attack on a Tunisian beach resort.

But Foreign Office minister Tobias Ellwood warned the death toll was likely to
rise.

He said it was "the most significant terrorist attack on British people" since
52 people were killed in the London 7/7 bombings in 2005".

A Tunisian student linked to Islamic State carried out the gun attack on a beach
which killed 38.

None of the identities of the British fatalities has been officially released.
But the names of some of those who have died or were injured have been confirmed
locally.

Scores of tourists from the region were thought to be in the country at the time
of the attacks on Friday.

Ms Burbridge, who is said to have been aged in her 60s, was confirmed dead by
her son-in-law, David Thompson, the BBC have reported.

Up to 2,500 more people could return to the UK from Tunisia today, including
many to the North East, as part of holiday firms' efforts to get those on
holiday at the beach resort home as soon as possible.

Yesterday Thomson and First Choice said it had already expatriated 1,000 of its
customers after a gunman opened fire on a beach, but added that there were still
5,400 remaining.

Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui targeted Western tourists as he
terrorised the popular resort on Friday.

The 23-year-old Tunisian aviation student disguised himself as a tourist and
began firing at holidaymakers on a beach using the gun he had hidden in a beach
umbrella.

British police have flown to the resort to help identify victims and consular
teams are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected, he said.

Scotland Yard today said police travelled to Tunisia to help investigate the
killings and officers are also interviewing tourists returning at British
airports.

Among those due to return home today is Wallsend teenager Abbie Douglas, who has
said she was left terrified when the gunman opened fire on tourists in the Port
El Kantaoui neighbourhood of the popular resort.

After hearing shots she fled to a hotel room in the Soviva Resort, opposite the
under fire Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba, along with other tourists who barricaded
themselves inside until it was safe to leave.

The 19-year-old supermarket worker - along with boyfriend Sam Younganan - was
expected to fly back on one of three emergency planes chartered by travel
company Jet2 in response to the tragedy.

"It's been a nightmare," she said speaking from Enfhida airport. "By 12.30pm
they had made a decision and we were told a coach would be arriving and anyone
who wanted to go home could get on it and there would be flights to Manchester
or Leeds, so it was just a matter of running upstairs and throwing everything in
our bags."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             coventrytelegraph.net

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 4:09 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Coventry holidaymakers speak of their horrifying ordeal;

'There was a lot of gun fire and you just ran for your life basically' - Wyken
man relives terrifying terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Ben Eccleston

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 493 words


A couple from Coventry have described the terrifying moment they were caught up
in the terrorist gun massacre in Tunisia.

Ross Thompson and Rebecca Smith had only arrived at the resort in Sousse a few
hours before a gunman opened fire, killing at least 39 people.

A total of 15 Britons have been confirmed dead so far but that number could
still rise as more victims are identified.

Ross, aged 21, or Rebecca, 22, both suffered shrapnel injuries and are now
recovering in hospital.

Ross's foot and arm are in a plaster cast while Rebecca has suffered shrapnel
wounds to her entire body.

Ross, from Wyken, said: "There was a lot of gun fire and you just ran for your
life basically.

"We were put in to a corridor which was a dead end with a 30ft drop, so it was
try and hide and get away with it like we did, or get shot.

"We managed to hide, get the room barricaded, get down low and hide."

Rebecca said that she got separated from Ross and hid in the staff toilets with
another woman and her son.

Ross, who works as a fire hydrant tester, only managed to call his mum to let
her know they were okay when he borrowed a reporter's phone.

His mum Mandy earlier told the Telegraph that the pair were now recovering in
the same hospital waiting for a flight home.

"They only arrived the night before," she said. "This was their first day.

"He has a hole through his toe and also his arm is in a cast.

"Ross's girlfriend has had to be stitched up because she had no many shrapnel
injuries.

"They're currently in hospital just waiting to get home. The problem we have got
is their passports and personal possessions are in the hotel.

"Everything can be replaced though. If they come home it doesn't matter if their
cases do or don't follow them.  Story link: Tunisia beach terror attack: Severn
Trent workers among 15 Brits killed in gun massacre

"Ross said to me that they wanted him to go to the hotel and collect their
belongings.

"He said 'I just can't do it mum - there's dead bodies and blood on the floor'.
It's traumatised him."

The attack was carried out by a 23-year-old student who disguised himself as a
tourist and began firing at holidaymakers on a beach using a Kalashnikov he had
hidden in an umbrella.

The student was reportedly laughing as he carried out the massacre and
deliberately selected western tourists.

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: "He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy.

"He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to them, 'You go
away'. He was choosing tourists, British, French."

The student was shot dead by police.

Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack at the RIU
Imperial Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue in the popular Tunisian resort.

Among those killed were Sue Davey and Scott Chalkley, who were both 42 and from
Tamworth.

The couple, who both worked for Severn Trent Water which has its headquarters in
Coventry, were enjoying their dream holiday after recently buying a house
together.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBET


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             coventrytelegraph.net

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:10 PM GMT

Tunisia beach terror attack: Severn Trent workers among 15 Brits killed in gun
massacre;
Midlands' couple who worked for Coventry-based Severn Trent among the 15 Brits
killed in Tunisia

BYLINE: By Agency Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1454 words


A couple from Tamworth were among the 15 Brits killed in the Tunisian beach
massacre.

Their sons announced their deaths on Twitter last night.

Conor Fulford, 23, and Ross Naylor posted on social media after the gun attack
for news of Sue Davey and Scott Chalkley - both 42 - who were in Sousse on
holiday together.

But Conor, who is Sue's son, and Ross, who is Scott's, updated Twitter last
night (Saturday, June 27) to announce their tragic deaths.

The two sons had begged for help to find their respective parents in the
aftermath of the gun attack - but have now revealed that both were tragically
killed.

The couple were staying at the Imperial Hotel in Sousse, Tunisia, where the
warped shooter gunned down Western tourists with an assault rifle hidden under
an umbrella.

Sue and Scott, who both worked for Severn Trent Water which has its headquarters
in Coventry, were enjoying their dream holiday after recently buying a house
together.

Conor from Tamworth said on Twitter: "Hi Everyone, Sorry to tell you we lost my
mother Sue Davey tonight but i want to thank everybody that tried to help me &;
my family ..."

Ross said on Facebook : "Tonight me and Brad lost our dad. Unfortunately he was
caught up in the sickening attack in Tunisia and is not longer with us.

"I'm sure many of you have seen the news about Sue aswell so all I ask is that
people let both families grieve in peace."

A Severn Trent Water spokeswoman said: "We are immensely saddened by the news
about Sue and Scott. They were much-loved by their colleagues.

"Sue and Scott had a passion to help others however they could, they cared
enormously for all those they worked with and were totally committed to our
customers and our company.

"We will miss them deeply. Both Sue and Scott have family and friends at Severn
Trent, our thoughts are with each of them and all those that hold them dear."
Story link: Coventry couple suffer shrapnel injuries in Tunisian terror attack

At least 15 Britons were among 38 holidaymakers killed in the Tunisian beach
massacre as names of those believed to be victims continue to emerge.

The Sousse atrocity is "the most significant terrorist attack on British people"
since July 7, 2005 when 52 people were killed, Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood
said.

He confirmed that at least 15 British nationals were killed in the attack but
said that number "may well rise as several more have been seriously injured".

Mr Ellwood added: "This is the most significant terrorist attack on British
people since 7/7 and highlights the ongoing threat of Isil."

Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui targeted western tourists as he
terrorised the popular resort.

His killing spree on the beach at the RIU Imperial Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue
ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his body.

Home Secretary Theresa May will chair a meeting of the Government's emergency
cobra committee this morning.

The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice to warn that further terrorist
attacks in Tunisia are possible and urged people to be vigilant.

One of the British victims was named as Adrian Evans, who worked for Sandwell
Council in the West Midlands as a manager in the gas services department.

The council leader Darren Cooper said: "Adrian Evans was a very popular and
long-serving employee who was manager of our gas services team.

"We are absolutely devastated for Adrian's family, friends and colleagues, and
our thoughts are with them and all those affected by this tragedy."

Joel Richards, reported to be Mr Evans's nephew, was also named as a victim and
Birmingham County FA said he was an active member of its youth council.

In a statement, it said: "A young, talented referee with the world at his feet,
he was highly thought-of and will be sadly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are
with his family and friends at this tragic time."

He is thought to have been a student at the University of Worcester.

Birmingham-based Gaelic football club James Connolly's GFC also paid tribute to
Mr Richards, tweeting that the club was "devastated" to learn of his death.

They said he was an "exceptionally-talented footballer" who represented both
club and county "with conviction" on numerous occasions.

Mr Richards's 16-year-old brother Owen is reported to have survived the attack.
Story link: Tunisia attack: Travel firms allow tourists to change holiday
bookings

Another of those killed is reported to be 24-year-old fashion blogger Carly
Lovett from Gainsborough, Lincolnshire.

Lincolnshire Police appointed a family liaison officer to support Ms Lovett's
family and police officers were positioned outside her address.

Her fiance was understood to be travelling back home.

Friends and fellow bloggers paid emotional tributes to the former University of
Lincoln student on social media.

The university's School of Film and Media tweeted: "Saddened to hear news
reports of Carly Lovett in Tunisia - Graduate of our University 2013."

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, Mr Ellwood said: "We
always have to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our
utmost to work with the international community to make all our places of
interest safer."

Meanwhile, a member of Norfolk Police staff and his wife were injured by the
gunfire.

The force said Tony Callaghan, who works at North Walsham, and his wife,
Christine, needed hospital treatment but their injuries are not
life-threatening.

He was shot in the leg while his wife had her femur shattered. They were staying
at the Imperial Hotel and were near the pool when they heard the attack begin.

An Irish mother-of-two, Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath, has already been
confirmed as among the dead.

The Irish government said there were "grave concerns" about two more Irish
citizens who were caught up in the shooting.

Foreign affairs minister Charlie Flanagan said authorities are in contact with
the families of the two citizens who are still missing.

The so-called Islamic State (also referred to as Isil) has claimed it is behind
the attacks and has reportedly identified Rezgui by his jihadi pseudonym Abu
Yahya al-Qayrawani.

The 23-year-old Tunisian aviation student disguised himself as a tourist and
began firing at holidaymakers on a beach using the gun he had hidden in a beach
umbrella.

Some 39 other people were also wounded in the attack, including 21 who have
already left hospital. Of the wounded, 25 were British.

British police have flown to the beach resort to help identify victims and
consular teams are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, national policing lead for
counter-terrorism, added that it was "fairly clear" the location of the Tunisian
attack was chosen because of the number of westerners present in the area, he
added.

The worst such attack in Tunisia's history came on the same day a man was found
decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamic extremists on a French factory
and a Shiite mosque in Kuwait was bombed, killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked, they come after IS
called for their followers "to make Ramadan a month of calamities for the
non-believers".

People gathered in Sousse last night for a protest against terrorism.

Crowds gathered after dark with some holding candles while others carried flags
including those of the United Kingdom and Tunisia.

Some people held posters aloft proclaiming "Peace" and "Sousse will never die".

The families of the two Irish citizens who are still missing have been told by
government officials in Dublin to expect the worst.

A Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) spokeswoman said relatives had been told
there is "strong reason to believe" the couple are among the dead.

The DFA stressed the formal identification process was still not complete.

The couple, named locally as Laurence and Martina Hayes, both aged in their 50s,
from the town of Athlone in the Irish Midlands, were holidaying in the resort.

A couple from Scotland were also reported to be amongst the British victims

Jim and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire, were named on social
media as having been killed in the terrorist attack.

Mr McQuire had volunteered with the Boys Brigade in the area and others in the
youth group posted messages on Twitter.

The 55th Edinburgh Boys' Brigade and Girls' Association tweeted: " Really
shocked to hear that Jim McQuire, BB officer with the 5th Cumbernauld and his
wife Ann were killed in the Tunisia shootings. RIP."

Chandlers Ford Boys Brigade urged others to pray for the couple's family in a
tweet which said: "P ls pray 4 the families of Jim Mcquire and his wife Ann, 5th
Cumbernauld who were among the victims of Friday's terrorist attacks in
Tunisia."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBET


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 10:57 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: At least 30 Brits murdered in the massacre on the beach;

SO FAR 15 British and Irish victims of vile jihadi gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, 24,
had been confirmed dead.

BYLINE: By Jason Beattie

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 966 words


THE number of Brits murdered in the Tunisia beach massacre will reach at least
30 and could rise further, Government sources have warned.

So far 15 British and Irish victims of vile jihadi gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, 24,
had been confirmed dead.

Sources said the overall total, currently 38, will exceed 40.

There has been a delay in identifying bodies due to the local coroner who was
insisting on seeing victims' medical records before confirming their
identification.

And Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said the delay was because many were
"dressed for the beach, not carrying ID physically on them".

He added: "There are a significant number of victims who have not been
positively identified at this time and it is highly likely that a significant
proportion of them will be British."

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

Mr Hammond added that it was "extraordinarily difficult" to predict where the
next attack will happen and was no more likely to be in Tunisia than in a
European city.

"Our agencies have been very frank about this over a long period of time now,
they cannot guarantee that we will be safe from this kind of self-radicalising
lone-wolf attack.

"It is the most difficult type of attack to detect and predict and therefore the
most difficult kind to protect against."

Home Secretary Theresa May said the British deaths figure was expected to rise
as more information comes out.

Three Irish people are also among the dead.

Speaking after chairing a meeting of the Government's emergency cobra committee
this morning, Home Secretary Theresa May said: "The figure for the number of
confirmed dead remains at 15, but we should expect that that figure is going to
rise.

Theresa May says there is no no evidence to suggest that Tunisia attacks were
targeted solely on British tourists

"The process is a complex one. And it is of course imperative that we get it
absolutely right for families, and that can sometimes take time."

The Queen sent her condolences to victims of the Tunisian massacre, saying the
brutal attack had left her and the Duke of Edinburgh "shocked".

The monarch also sent her "deepest sympathy" to those injured in Friday's brutal
slaughter in Sousse which left at least 15 Britons dead.

As tributes were paid to the victims by family and friends, Buckingham Palace
released a statement from the Queen saying: "Prince Philip and I were shocked to
learn of the attack on British tourists in Tunisia on Friday.

"We send our sincere condolences to the families of those who were killed and
our deepest sympathy to the people who are still fighting for their lives in
hospital, and those who have been seriously injured.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with those of all countries who have been affected
by this terrible event."

Thousands of tourists have arrived back in the UK from Tunisia in the wake of
Friday's beach massacre in the country.

Holiday firms have scrambled extra flights on top of scheduled services for
people seeking to flee back to Britain since the slaughter in Sousse. Flights to
the country have also been cancelled.

Thomas Cook said 1,100 people who cut short their stay in the North African
country were among 3,600 who have flown back since the attack.

It laid on two extra flights on Saturday and another today.

More than 600 British anti-terror detectives have been drafted in to gather
evidence following Friday's attack.

Nearly 400 have been stationed at airports to inrterview returning
holidaymakers.

The move came as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office warned further terror
attacks in the north African country was possible.

The FCO on its website urged British holidaymakers to keep in touch with tour
operators and follow any advice from Tunisian security authorities.

On its website it advises most people visiting areas around Tunis and the coast
to follow its advice but said Britons should not travel to border areas to Libya
and some parts connected to Algeria.

It has also emerged that an RAF mercy mission may evacuate one of the shot
Brits.

Kirsty Murray, 25, was visited in hospital in Sousse by an RAF medic on
Saturday, and it is understood she is likely to be flown home when arrangements
can be put in place.

The daughter of a couple missing in Tunisia has told how more than 20 phone
calls to the Foreign Office have gone unanswered.

Devastated Holly Graham is desperately searching for information on the
whereabouts of her parents Billy and Lisa who she has not heard from since
before the attack on Friday.

The 29-year-old has criticised the Foreign Office for the lack of information
they're supplying.

She revealed that her and her friends had made more than 20 different calls to a
special hotline set up for victim's families but hadn't received a single reply.

Speaking from the family home home in Bankfoot, Perthshire, she said: "We have
not been called back or acknowledged.

"I would have thought they would at least have found someone who could contact
me direct and explain what they might do to help.

"In the meantime I am left with this terrible wait for information which is very
hard to bear.

"I have not spoken to my Mum or Dad since Thursday night. They had been in
contact every day since they got there."

She also criticised holiday firm Thomson who dad Billy, 51, had booked the two
week break through as a 50th birthday present for wife Lisa.

The pair arrived at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel resort - the scene of the
massacre - on June 17 and are due to come home on Wednesday.

Holly added: "Thomson are like they're just reading off a piece of paper. I've
had friends phoning on my behalf of me because you can imagine I'm a little bit
of an emotional wreck at the moment.

"They said the same - it's like they're just reading off a piece of paper that
they've been given to tell people."

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 10:34 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Devoted couple Jim and Ann slain on beach days before
returning to meet the Queen;
JIM McQuire, 66, and wife Ann, 63, decided to go on holiday only one week in
advance.

BYLINE: By Keith McLeod

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 535 words


A SCOTS couple killed in Tunisia had only booked the holiday at the last minute.

Jim McQuire, 66, and wife Ann, 63, were due to fly home tomorrow to attend the
Queen's Garden Party in Edinburgh.

The devoted couple were among 38 people killed by a gunman in the resort of
Sousse.

Their friend Marjory Williamson revealed that Ann and Jim, who had recently
retired, had gone to Tunisia on a late deal.

She added: "They were enjoying life so much.

"The holiday was booked just a week in advance and they said they loved having
the freedom to do that now Jim is retired."

Former engineer Jim and Ann flew to Tunisia from Glasgow last Sunday.

They were both shot on the beach. Ann died on the spot and Jim passed away in
hospital shortly afterwards.

The couple, who leave a son, Stuart, 32, were invited to Wednesday's garden
party at the Palace of Holyroodhouse after a lifetime of commitment to the
Church of Scotland and Jim's many years as a Boys' Brigade captain.

They also did community and charity work in Glasgow's east end, where they were
from originally.

Marjory, 71, said the couple, who lived in Cumbernauld, were devoted to each
other.

She added: "Jim and Ann were loving their retirement.

"Jim was a keen hillwalker and Ann had taken a wee part-time job in a medical
lab in Coatbridge after working for many years as a medical receptionist."

BB captain Andrew Eadie, 67, said: "Jim texted me to say he was in Tunisia and
that he would be back early on Monday to get ready for the garden party.

"I got the call from Marjory late on Saturday. I didn't want to believe it."

The couple were regulars at Abronhill Church, where Jim was captain of the 5th
Cumbernauld BB company.

Footage of wounded tourists being taken to hospital in Tunisia

Prayers were said for him and Ann at yesterday's morning service.

The Rev Joyce Keyes said: "This is very emotional. They were very active in the
church. Jim was an elder.

"They were a very young retired couple. They were enjoying the opportunity just
to take off on holiday.

"They were devoted to each other."

The couple's neighbours were also in shock.

David Wharton, 53, said: "When I heard the news, I sat and cried all night.

"They were lovely. Jim came in and fixed my frozen pipes and you would always
see him in the garden.

"To think this loving couple are not coming home is incomprehensible."

David's wife Lynn Ann, 43, said: "Jim was skipper at all levels of the BBs  and
was captain to our son Jamie, who is nine and in the Anchor Boys.

"It is very difficult for children to take in because there is no explanation as
to why."

Another neighbour, Margaret Peet, 77, said: " I'm broken-hearted. They will be
sorely missed here."

Marjory said the couple were considerate to everyone.

She added: "They were extremely kind and helpful. I had an accident last year
and Jim and Ann were on the scene right away and came to hospital with me."

Jim retired last year from BAE's Scotstoun shipyard, where he worked on newly
launched vessels.

Ann sang and she and Jim both played guitar. They played in a folk band called
the Tartan Spirits.

The couple's son Stuart, who married Nicola in October, was too upset to talk
about the tragedy.

Try our quick news quiz below:

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 9:17 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Brit couple gets engaged same night as killings to defy
terrorists

BYLINE: Jerry Lawton

LENGTH: 412 words


A COUPLE who dodged bullets in the Tunisian beach massacre got engaged hours
later in a show of defiance to Islamic State.

Shelley Hay and Ben Wilton ran for their lives as gunshots rang out "like
fireworks" and peppered the sand beneath their feet.

They grabbed their belongings and fled as IS gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, 23,
slaughtered holidaymakers on their sunbeds in Sousse.

The couple made it to their nearby hotel and hid in their room.

Ben had planned to pop the question to his girlfriend on the day of the tragedy
- Shelley's 25th birthday.

As they started to come to terms with the horror, he decided to go ahead with
the proposal to defy the terrorists.

The couple, from Cardiff, went to a local restaurant last night where Ben went
down on one knee.

He said: "First of all I thought: 'I'm going to have to leave it and wait until
we get home.'

"But as the day went on I thought: 'No, actually, they're not going to stop
this.' So I just did it anyway."

After Shelley said yes, they joined at least 2,500 other Brits catching
emergency flights home.

Back in the UK, gas engineer Matthew James, 30, who was shot three times acting
as a human shield to protect fiancée Saera Wilson, 26, is now recovering in
hospital.

The dad-of-two from Pontypridd was hailed a hero after taking bullets in the
shoulder, chest and hip.

His mum Kathryn said it was the "most fantastic feeling" seeing Saera step off
the plane while her son was carried on a stretcher behind her.

Related articles Tunisia killings: Queen sends condolences to families of
victims and the survivors Tunisia terror attack: Killer was a 'normal guy' who
loved breakdancing and Real Madrid Tunisia terror attack: Brave builder floored
terrorist by chucking ROOF TILES at him  Kakim Rezgui, father of Tunisia
terrorist

"He and Saera are now on home turf,'' she wrote on social media.

"He's in good spirits and is getting the very best of care.

"So proud of him after being the first to be shot and making sure Saera got to
safety, he held the hand of an elderly gent who lay dying next to him."

Meanwhile, Rezgui's father last night apologised to the families of victims and
said he was "ashamed".

Kakim Rezgui said: "He has new friends who got him into this.

"I had no idea and I am really sorry. I am upset to see those victims.

"I feel the loss of the families so strongly. I feel like I have died along with
the victims.

"I am so ashamed for me, for his mother, for all our family."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 9:03 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Brave builder floored terrorist by chucking ROOF TILES at
him

BYLINE: Jerry Lawton

LENGTH: 205 words


THE carnage in Tunisia was ended by hero builder Moncef Mayal who floored killer
Seifeddine Rezgui by pelting him with roof tiles.

Mr Mayal was standing on a rooftop terrace when he spotted the gunman below.

He picked up a stack of terracotta tiles and hurled them at Rezgui's head,
causing him to stumble.

Weeping Mr Mayal, 56, said: "It was my duty to do it as a Tunisian and as a
Muslim."

At that point Tunisian police caught up with the gunman and shot him dead. One
Tunisian police offi cer said that he had killed the assassin using "two
bullets".

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Hero boy brushed off bullet wound to
comfort wounded Tunisia massacre: Hotel staff formed human shield to protect
terrified guests Tunisia killings: Queen sends condolences to families of
victims and the survivors  Moncef Mayal, hero

The officer, who wished to remain anonymous, said he shot Rezgui after spotting
him praying in a side street.

"I put two bullets in him. I haven't slept since," he added.

Tunisian police were last night hunting accomplices they suspect may have been
disguised as sunbathers.

Army reservists have now been called up to guard beaches and historic sites
popular with tourists.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 8:52 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Killer was a 'normal guy' who loved breakdancing and Real
Madrid

BYLINE: Jerry Lawton

LENGTH: 32 words


BEACH terrorist Seifeddine Rezgui went from footie-mad breakdancer to mass
killer after being brainwashed by Islamic extremists, it was claimed last night.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 6:47 PM GMT

Scots jihadi bride Aqsa Mahmood posts despicable poem on Tumblr glorifying
triple terror attacks;
THE runaway school girl fled Scotland to join ISIS in Syria in November 2013,
but regularly posts her hateful rants online.

BYLINE: By Craig Robertson

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 435 words


SCOTS jihadi bride Aqsa Mahmood has described Friday's terror attacks as
"revenge" in a hateful online rant.

The runaway private schoolgirl posted a poem to her blog in which she says the
incidents in Tunisia, France and Kuwait were historic.

Mahmood left her family in Glasgow and fled to Syria to join ISIS in November
2013 and marry one of their fighters.

She's used the internet to promote the terror group and is currently at the
centre of a Metropolitan Police investigation over claims she's tried to recruit
other young British Muslim women online.

In her blog on Friday, the 20-year-old, who posts under the name Umm Layth,
said: "It is a day that will go down in history. A day of resistance and memory.

"In 3 different locations a family was born. Its name was change, freedom and
revenge.

"Kuwait, France and Tunisia is where they reside.

"They left a mark which will always remain.

"Permanent and blunt."

Her blog post emerged after Friday's gun attack in Tunisia, which killed 38
including 15 Brits, the beheading in the south of France and the suicide bombing
in Kuwait.

And she warned of further attacks, saying: "If you show no mercy with us then
why should we with you?"

Mahmood, from the Pollokshields area of the city, became obsessed with Syria
after witnessing civil war break out in 2013.

Last September her parents Muzaffar, 51, and Khalida, 43, made an emotional plea
for her to return .

They revealed how she'd turned into a "bedroom radical" and accused her of
betraying the family.

But the distraught couple said: "You have torn the heart out of our family and
changed our lives forever. Please come home."

Other online postings by the Scots jihadi bride:

In pictures: Online postings by student Aqsa Mahmood who went to Craigholme
School

Just a week later Mahmood responded in an online rant saying she had a new
family in Syria.

The former Glasgow University student said: "The family you get in exchange for
leaving the ones behind are like the pearl in comparison to the shell you threw
away into the foam of the sea which is the international Islamic community.

"The strength of the brotherhood and sisterhood here is most definitely shown
through difficulties where someone who has no blood ties with you and not even a
relation will make sure if their Muslim sister is in need of anything and if
there is any problems."

The Metropolitan Police have said their case against Mahmood is "well advanced"
and say she could be arrested and brought back to the UK if she enters any EU
country.

Video: Aqsa Mahmood press conference with Aamer Anwar

Try our quick news quiz below:

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 3:58 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: devastated daughter of missing Scots couple slams Foreign
Office for lack of information;
HOLLY GRAHAM is looking for information on her parents Billy and Lisa, but has
had over 20 phone calls to the Foreign Office unanswered.

BYLINE: By Brendan McGinty

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 686 words


THE DAUGHTER of a Scots couple missing in Tunisia has told how more than 20
phone calls to the Foreign Office have gone unanswered.

Devastated Holly Graham is desperately searching for information on the
whereabouts of her parents Billy and Lisa who she has not heard from since the
attack on Friday.

The 29-year-old yesterday criticised the Foreign Office for the lack of
information they're supplying in the days following the attack which claimed 38
lives in Sousse.

She revealed that her and her friends had made more than 20 different calls to a
special hotline set up for victim's families but hadn't received a single reply.

Speaking from her home in Bankfoot, Perthshire, she said: "My friends and I have
made 20

different calls to the Foreign Office on a line they set up supposedly to help
families requiring information.

"We have not been called back or acknowledged. I would have thought they would
at least have found someone who could contact me direct and explain what they
might do to help.

"In the meantime I am left with this terrible wait for information which is very
hard to bear.

"I have not spoken to my Mum or Dad since Thursday night. They had been in
contact every day since they got there."

Dad Billy, 51, had booked the two week break through as a 50th birthday present
for wife Lisa.

The pair arrived at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel resort - the scene of the
massacre - on June 17 and are due to come home on Wednesday.

Holly added: "Thomson are like they're just reading off a piece of paper. I've
had friends phoning on my behalf because you can imagine I'm a little bit of an
emotional wreck at the moment.

"They said the same - it's like they're just reading off a piece of paper that
they've been given to tell people."

Ochil and South Perthshire MP Tasmina Ahmed-Sheikh has pledged her support to
the Graham's and said she will work towards getting information for the family.

She said: "I spoke to Holly Graham this morning, and she is understandably upset
and worried about her parents.

"She thanks the media for all their support over the last two days, but has now
asked for some privacy during this difficult and stressful time.

"I hope that while there is considerable media and public attention on this
situation, the media can respect her wishes."

"I'll be doing all I can do support the family and will be working together with
the local MSP John Swinney to seek further information from the Foreign Office
about these terrible circumstances."

At least 15 Brits are among the 38 holidaymakers who lost their lives after
Sefeddine Rezgui stormed the pack tourist beach armed with a Kalashnikov assault
rifle.

The Scottish Government has held a second resilience meeting following the
attack in Sousse, Tunisia, to discuss the support for affected Scots.

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said: "Today I convened a further Scottish
Government resilience meeting to ensure that in Scotland we doing everything we
can to provide support those who may be affected by this senseless attack and
their families.

"I would like to offer my heartfelt sympathies to everyone who may have lost a
loved one in this attack.

"We are prepared for the possibility that there may be Scottish victims among
those who have lost their lives, but we have not yet received official
confirmation of this.

"The threat level for the UK remains at severe and counter terrorism measures
are in place to respond to this. The advice from Police Scotland is to stay
vigilant and alert.

"We are working closely with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Police
Scotland and other partners to ensure those have been caught up in the violence
or are concerned about relatives who are missing have all of the advice, help
and information they need. I want to reassure families that we are doing
everything that we can to make sure they have this support. I would also
encourage anyone with any concerns about the welfare of their friends and
families to please contact the official helpline number which is 0207 008 0000."

Anyone with information relating to Billy and Lisa Graham are asked to contact
daughter Holly hlgraham85@hotmail.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 1:43 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Hero who acted as human shield for fiancée gives thumbs
up from hospital bed back home;
MATHEW JAMES threw himself in front of the hail of bullets to protect partner
Saera, and was shot in the shoulder chest and hip

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 434 words


A HERO dad who took three bullets to protect his fiancée during the Tunisian
beach massacre gives a thumbs up and a brave smile from his UK hospital bed,
after returning home from his holiday horror.

Gas engineer Mathew James is in a "stable and comfortable condition" after
returning to Britain from Tunisia.

The 30-year-old used his body as a human shield to protect Saera Wilson from
being killed by a terrorist gunman during Friday's shocking massacre.

In a statement this morning his family said: "Mathew is currently in a stable
and comfortable condition - and he and his fiancée Saera are doing well, and are
happy to be back in the UK.

"They wish to thank all of the medical teams in both Tunisia and the UK for all
of their professional assistance, care and support.

hero fiancee

"They would also like to thank everyone involved in ensuring their safe return
to the UK and the support shown by family, friends and the public."

Saera and Mathew, from Trehafod, South Wales, jetted out to Sousse on June 21
for a two-week break, but Mathew was shot in the shoulder, chest and hip during
Friday's rampage.

Saera, 26, has told how Mathew "took a bullet" for her by protecting her from
the gunman.

She then fled for her life after he told her: "I love you babe. But just go -
tell our children that their daddy loves them."

Sarah found Matthew was in hospital after an agonising three-hour wait not
knowing if he had survived.

She stayed next to his bed in hospital instead of returning to the hotel - but
described it as complete chaos.

Beautician Saera was left with just the beach clothes she was wearing after the
shooting horror.

She said: "I had to leave everything on the beach - my bag, money, everything -
and just go.

"I can't go back to the hotel and I have nothing but what I'm wearing now."

She said: "No-one knows what was going on. We have had to draw pictures to try
to find out.

"We are due to get married in the summer of 2017. We will be the luckiest people
alive because we have witnessed what no-one ever should see. Ever."

Saera revealed yesterday that the couple were trying to keep Mathew's heroic
actions from their children Tegan, six, and Kaden, 14 months, because they don't
want them to worry.

Sarah said: "We don't want the children to know anything about it and how daddy
has been hurt.

"We've asked our families not to let them watch the television so they don't ask
any questions.

"They know we are in Tunisia and we don't want them to worry. We just want to
get back to them and give them a big hug."

Footage of wounded tourists being taken to hospital in Tunisia

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 1:15 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Hero boy brushed off bullet wound to comfort wounded

BYLINE: Michael Havis

LENGTH: 681 words


A SCHOOLBOY who saw three members of his family murdered in the Tunisian beach
massacre comforted other victims, despite being wounded himself.

Owen Richards, 16, saw his brother, uncle and granddad shot dead in Friday's
terror attack at the beach resort of El Kantaoui in Sousse.

The teenager's shoulder had been grazed by a bullet which killed one of his
family, believed to have been uncle Adrian Evans, 49.

His 19-year-old brother, Joel Richards, and granddad Patrick Evans, 79, were
lying dead in the sand nearby.

Having fled the scene, the heroic schoolboy comforted a wounded woman, who had a
bullet wound to her back.

He was later found "shaking and crying", saying "I have to call my mum."

Related articles Tunisia terror attacks: The British victims named so far
Tunisia terror: Hero cop ended Islamic State nutter's killing spree with two
bullets

Medical worker Fakher Ben Amor, from the Cliniques Les Oliviers hospital,
treated Owen after he was admitted.

The medic told The Mail on Sunday: "He had a small injury to his shoulder, very
superficial, and a problem with his left ear, he wasn't hearing very well from
the explosions.

"Owen ran away. He was not aware that other family members had died at that
point.

"He was really shocked and depressed when he came here. He was crying."

He added: "Owen said it was terrifying and he ran for his life, turning round to
look for other members of his family as he sprinted away from the beach.

"But every time he turned he saw more and more people falling as the bullets hit
them.

"It was only later he found out that two other members of his family had been
killed."

Owen's mother, Suzanne Richards, 46, is now understood to have left the family
home in Wednesbury, West Midlands, to reunite with her son in Tunisia.

A neighbour said: "She's gone out there to bring Owen home."

At least 15 Brits lost their lives in the atrocity, which was carried out by
Islamic State fanatic Seifeddine Rezgui, 24.

Joel Richards was a student at the University of Worcester, where mourners
gathered to lay flowers this morning.

He is believed to have previously studied at Stuart Bathurst Catholic High
School, a performing arts college.

A statement from university vice chancellor and chief executive, Professor David
Green, spoke of the "enormous sadness" of the loss and said the whole community
had been "shocked."

It added: "At Worcester Joel has shown himself to be a highly intelligent,
talented young man and an all-round outstanding person with a truly bright
future ahead.

"Since joining the university, he has become very popular with his fellow
students, team mates and with the many staff that have taught him throughout his
time with us.

"If these news reports are confirmed then Joel will be deeply missed by us all.

"On behalf of the University of Worcester I would like to extend the most
heartfelt sympathy of our entire university community to Joel's family and
friends. Our thoughts are with them and with all the other victims of this
horrific attack, their families and loved ones.

"The university will do our best to help students and staff come together and
provide the best support we can in these terrible circumstances through our
counselling and student support services and in every other way possible."

Afundraising page, set up to support hero younger brother, Owen, and other
members of the family, paid further tribute to tragic Joel.

Judy Gregory, his former science teacher from school, said: "Joel was a model
student and a pleasure to teach he was a credit to himself and his family our
prayers are with his family."

A university friend, Mike Brookes, wrote: "RIP Joel. You were the nicest guy
anyone could meet.

"Thoughts are with your family at this tragic time. Unit won't be the same mate.
Rest easy."

Another friend, Rachel Willetts, said: "You were a dear and cherished friend and
a person that I've always aspired to be like.

"I'll do my best to carry on smiling like you told me."

Defence Secretary Michael Fallon said the majority of those killed in the
attacks were believed to be British.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:47 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Friends of killer Seifeddine Rezgui tell of breakdancer
who began to post extremist views on social media;
REZGUI, 23, was shot dead by security forces after killing 39 people at the
beachside resort of Sousee.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 401 words


SHOCKED friends of Tunisia beach murderer Seifeddine Rezgui described him as a
breakdancing enthusiast who lived his life 'like any other young man'.

The engineering student, 23, was shot dead by police after he killed 39 people
in cold blood at the popular Tunisian seaside resort of Sousse.

Rezgui began to raise concerns after posted a series of extremist messages on
social media and praised jihad.

The killer, described as a huge football fan, came from the town of Gaafour in
the Siliana region, the country's prime minister Habib Essid said yesterday.

He had been a student at the University of Kairouan and had never travelled
abroad.

Rezgui's uncle said he was "just like the other young men" who liked to play
football or go to a cafe after praying in the local mosque.

He loved break dancing and entered several competitions in the capital city
Tunis, Ali Al-Rezgui told a Sunday newspaper, and a video has emerged appearing
to show him dancing around five years ago.

It has been reported a Facebook page believed to have belonged to him shows him
posting about Real Madrid and the Tunisian national football team - but in
recent months also contained a number of posts in support of Islamic State.

Mr Al-Rezgui said Rezgui had not been a devout Muslim, and referring to the
practice of Muslim men not shaving their beards, he said: "He didn't even have a
beard."

He added: "We were all shocked when we heard the news and saw his picture, and
his mother was devastated."

Neighbours suggested the gunman may have been brainwashed.

Monia Riahi, 50, who is a neighbour and family friend, described him as "good,
good, good!".

She told another Sunday newspaper: "I've known him since he was small. He was
never in trouble with anyone ever. Maybe he was brainwashed or something."

Rezgui's father, who is a day labourer working on farms or the nearby railway
line was taken to the Tunisian capital for police questioning.

Neighbour Ammar Fazai, 64, said: "I think maybe, just maybe, it was poverty that
did it."

Kairouan resident Salah Korbia said Rezgui and his four flatmates, thought to be
students, were not welcome in the town due to their conservative ideology.

Images have emerged of the the gunman standing barefoot on the beach dressed in
a black T-shirt and shorts, with a gun in his hand

Photographs taken after the attack appeared to show Rezgui's body after he was
shot by police.

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:28 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: British survivor says 'Tunisians formed human shield to
protect tourists';
John Yeoman posted a picture taken during the shooting and said the men in the
background were not stood watching the gunman - but trying to save people

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 388 words


A British survivor of the Tunisian hotel massacre says brave Tunisians formed a
human shield to protect Western tourists.

John Yeoman, who was in the hotel next to the one targeted by the gunman, said
the men in the background of a picture taken during the shooting were not stood
watching the gunman - but trying to save people.

The 46 year-old transport worker from Kettering described how the staff at the
Bellevue hotel lined up to prevent killer gunman Seifeddine Rezgui from going
into the hotel after he opened fire.

Flowers lay on Tunisian beach for victims of massacre

Read more: Latest updates from Tunisia following the harrowing attack

Human shield

John told MirrorOnline: "It's amazing what they did. The staff were in a line
and they were shouting at him, saying 'we won't let you through'.

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

"They shouted: 'You'll have to go through us'. That's why he's got his back
turned to them.

"He tried to get to my hotel and they stood in a line."

As a result the 23-year-old - who told Tunisians he wasn't after them and
targeted helpless Western tourists - turned and walked away.

Read more: Hero who acted as human shield for fiancee gives thumbs up from
hospital bed

John said the Tunisian hotel staff were "amazing" during and after the attack.

He said: "I can't describe the look on the (hotel staff's) faces. They were
horrified."

Earlier John tweeted: "Those in the background formed a human shield to protect
another hotel, they are not watching. They saved many lives. "

Tunisia terror attack: scenes of chaos as emergency services transport injured
from beach to hospital

John was forced to hide in his hotel room during the killing spree, and has
spoken of his relief at being back in the UK.

Read more: Grief-stricken sons announce death of missing parents after desperate
online search

He tweeted: "After a long day and a bottle of red wine to numb the experiences
of the 34 hours I'm ready for bed and a cuddle with my wife. Night all."

On Friday he posted a picture of a makeshift barricade he hastily made in front
of his hotel room door as the killer was carrying out his savage spree.

Other holidaymakers have been talking of the desperate measures they took to
survive, including one woman who played dead as her husband was shot in front of
her.

Tunisia timeline

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:07 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: First picture of the Scots couple believed to have died
when gunman opened fire on tourists;
ANN and Jim McQuire, from Cumbernauld, are believed to be among 15 Britons now
known to have died in the tragedy.

BYLINE: By Heather Greenaway

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 367 words


THIS is the first picture of Scottish couple Ann and Jim McQuire who are
believed to have died in the terror attack at a beach in Tunisia on Friday.

It is thought the couple from Cumbernauld are among 15 Britons now known to have
died in the tragedy, which claimed the lives of 38 holidaymakers.

It is feared Ann, 63, and Jim, 66, were gunned down by Seifeddine Rezgui as they
holidayed in the Tunisian resort of Sousse.

Ann is a retired medical receptionist, and Jim is a Boys' Brigade Officer with
the 5th Cumbernauld company.

Tributes to Jim and his wife, have been put on social media and the Boys'
Brigade Facebook page is full of heartfelt messages of condolence.

Sadie Boyle, President of Strathkelvin Battalion, wrote: "I thought I would let
the BB comunity know Strathkelvin Battalion has lost a good Officer Jim McQuire
and his wife Ann (5th Cumbernauld) at Tunisia Shooting prayers and thoughts to
their family."

Muriel McEwan from the 5th Cumbernauld Company, posted: "Truly heartbreaking. As
a helper at his company, I know our boys will be devastated. Thoughts and
prayers go our to his family."

Fraser Boyd wrote: "These tragedies, no matter how distant geographically, are
now starting to affect all of us. We must pray for our world and its future. And
we shall pray here at BB camp with 25th and 36th Stirling for Mr and Mrs
McQuire. We send our condolences to their families and the BB family who knew
them."

The 55th Edinburgh BB company took to Twitter to speak of their shock at losing
a fellow officer: "Really shocked to hear that Jim McQuire, BB officer with the
5th Cumbernauld and his wife Ann were killed in the Tunisia shootings. RIP."

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "We are not confirming the name of any of the
British victims at this time."

Meanwhile, the daughter of a Scots couple missing since being caught up in the
Tunisian slaughter is still waiting for news on whether they are safe.

Holly Graham's dad Billy and mum Lisa usually contact her every day while on
holiday - but didn't call on Friday or yesterday.

The pair arrived at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel resort - the scene of the
massacre - on June 17 and are due to come hime on Wednesday.

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 9:07 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: UK on full security alert as Armed Forces Day parades
pass off without incident;
THERE was heightened police presence in Edinburgh and Glasgow ahead of
yesterday's Armed Forces Day parades and security has been stepped up at all
major public events across the country.

BYLINE: By Norman Silvester

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 839 words


EXTRA anti-terror measures were taken for Armed Forces Day as the UK was put on
a full security alert yesterday.

There was a heightened police ­presence to ensure the safety of ­participants
and crowds at veterans' parades across Scotland.

It came as Scotland Yard confirmed a plot to bomb an Armed Forces march in south
London had been foiled last week.

The parade was targeted by Islamic State because it was closest to the ­barracks
in Woolwich where 25-year-old fusilier Lee Rigby was murdered by ­extremists in
2013.

Security was also heightened at the Gay Pride march in the centre of London,
which attracted around 30,000 ­revellers.

Extra measures will be in place ­tomorrow for the start of Wimbledon.

The country's threat level for ­international terrorism was assessed as severe,
meaning an attack is highly likely.

It's one level below critical when an attack is believed to be imminent.

In Edinburgh yesterday, anti-terror officers carried out a search of drains for
explosives along the Armed Forces Day march route in the centre of the city.

They used sniffer dogs to search phone boxes and even lifted paving stones.

There was also a heightened police ­presence in Glasgow, where First ­Minister
Nicola Sturgeon attended an event.

Parades in the country's two biggest cities and in Inverness, Paisley, Stranraer
and Dundee all passed ­without incident, as did events in ­England and Wales.

But the intense security measures are likely to be a sign of things to come over
the summer.

IS have warned that the holy month of Ramadan will have "lots of surprises" and
said Muslims who targeted ­non-believers would be rewarded ­tenfold in the
afterlife.

Police have been warned not to wear their uniforms in public when off-duty and
told not to tell strangers what they do for a living.

The advice follows similar guidance given to British soldiers not to wear their
uniform outside barracks or reveal they're in the Armed Forces.

Police Scotland would not say ­yesterday what security measures were being taken
north of the ­Border.

A spokesman added: "Police ­Scotland officers are not currently travelling to
Tunisia. This matter is being handled by the Foreign and ­Commonwealth Office
and we are in close liaison with them."

Ex-serious crime squad detective Gerry Gallacher - who investigated both
loyalist and republican terrorists groups active in Scotland - said: "The fact
that the threat level nationally is severe shows that the security services
believe that a ­terrorist attack by IS is in the offing. It is clear that IS are
using Ramadan to launch a fresh terrorist offensive. The ­murder of Lee Rigby
shows how random and haphazard these terrorist attacks can be and that they can
come from nowhere.

"The police have been very successful in foiling IS attacks in Britain using
intelligence, but groups like IS are also learning from their mistakes.

"The police will also want the public to be on their guard over the next few
weeks, to be their eyes and ears and to report any suspicious behaviour to
them."

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "The police, together with our security
partners, remain alert to terrorist threats that may manifest here or where
individuals overseas may seek to direct or inspire others to commit attacks in
and against the UK."

Scotland Yard confirmed yesterday that security was being stepped up at
­Wimbledon for the two-week tournament.

Upgraded security measures included the deployment of extra officers, increased
road closures and a "highly mobile reserve" team to respond to ­intelligence.

Chief Superintendent Stuart Macleod, the local commander, said: "This year's
event will be policed to a level proportionate with the current threat level."
The main Armed Forces Day event took place in Guildford, Surrey, attended by
Prime ­Minister David Cameron and involved a parade of more than 900 service
personnel, veterans and cadets.

Prince Andrew took the salute on the parade route on behalf of the Queen and
royal family, as the Red Arrows staged a fly-past.

Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, national policing lead
for ­counter terrorism, said: "There's an independent body of experts who assess
the threat and they're keeping it at severe.

"That is a very significant level.

"There have been a handful of plots near to commission that have been foiled and
many more plots, where people have had the ­aspiration, where we've disrupted
them early in their plans and their thinking."

He urged the public to be "vigilant" and urged anyone with information about
terrorism to contact the police.

Domestic terror arrests increased by almost a third last year, as police and
religious leaders try to halt the number of people joining Islamic extremists in
Syria.

There were 289 arrests for terrorism-related offences during 2014, an increase
of 30 per cent on the previous year.

An estimated 700 Britons are believed to have fled to join Islamic militants,
including three sisters and their nine children who  left their homes in
Bradford earlier this month.

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 8:32 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Meet the break-dancing student who was turned into brutal
laughing assassin by IS masters;
THE killer who mercilessly gunned down tourists in Tunisia had been a student
who loved break-dancing before becoming radicalised.

BYLINE: By Craig McDonald

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 587 words


THE killer who laughed as he mercilessly gunned down tourists in Tunisia was a
party animal who became radicalised in the last two years, friends said
yesterday.

A picture released by Islamic State showed clean-cut Seifedine Rezgui dressed in
a crisp white T-shirt wearing an easy smile as he carried off a relaxed pose for
the camera.

The only clues as to the 23-year-old aviation student's deadly mission were two
Kalashnikovs in the otherwise nondescript background.

Rezgui was yesterday described as a "good student" and Tunisian prime minister
Habib Essid said an initial investigation found he was not previously known to
the authorities. Other sources have painted a picture of a young man who liked
partying and break-dancing.

Rezgui was said to have targeted foreign holidaymakers, especially those from
Britain, as he carried out the massacre.

The killer was himself shot dead by police after carrying out his deadly attack.

It was claimed yesterday he lived with four housemates in an area known as
Gargabia in the city of Kairouan.

Sources said they had left a fortnight before the massacre.

Rezgui was said to have moved to the town from Jaafour, which is 100 miles from
Sousse where the attacks took place, and initially lived in another area of
Kairouan known as Rakada.

Another student revealed he used to practise kung fu when he lived there.

IS

His behaviour reportedly changed over the past two years, according to a former
acquaintance.

He began to frequent mosques outside government control, where he would spend
hours every day.

Rezgui would often travel to the capital Tunis to meet radical Islamists.

However, his father told friends he did not notice anything different about him
when he visited his parents in Gaafour at the start of the summer holidays.

IS - who said they were behind Friday's attack on what they called a "den of
vice" - identified the gunman by the alias of Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani.

Social media accounts close to the group showed pictures of him posing between
two Kalashnikovs and smiling.

IS posted on the internet: "Soldier of the Khalifat, Abu Yahya AlQuirawani, may
God accept him, a night of the Sousse invasion in the Muslim Tunisia."

Rezgui dressed like any other tourist to carry out his attack - wearing dark
shorts, a T-shirt and a necklace. It's estimated his  rampage lasted seven
minutes before he was shot dead outside the hotel.

Footage of wounded tourists being taken to hospital in Tunisia

It's understood Rezgui was extremely familiar with the layout of the Imperial
Marhaba resort and had carefully planned his attack.

A waiter who was at the scene when the mayhem unfolded said: "I was on the beach
when he started shooting. We got everyone back towards the hotel but he followed
us."

Trainee mechanic Ibrahim el-Ghoul, who works close to the resort, said he had
seen Rezgui smiling as he told him: "I don't want to kill you, I want to hit
tourists."

Security officials in Tunisia said the gunman was not on a terror watch list.

However, he may have been radicalised by extremist preachers about six months
ago

Rezgui had never travelled abroad in his lifetime, prompting fears he was
radicalised at a local mosque.

Sources in the gunman's home town said his parents, sister and close friends had
been detained by the Tunisian authorities.

A source said: "Everybody we have talked to here said he was just a very normal
guy.

"He prayed like other people here, he fasted like other people here - he showed
no signs at all of extremism." Try our news quiz  Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 7:30 AM GMT

Tunisia beach terror attack: Scots holidaymakers tell of horror of witnessing
Islamic State gunman execute fellow tourists;
THE Stevenson family barricaded themselves in their hotel room as the terrorist
gunned down 38 people, including at least 15 Britons.

BYLINE: By Craig McDonald

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 1065 words


A SCOTS family told how they watched in horror from their hotel room window as
an Islamic State gunman executed their fellow holidaymakers.

Jim Stevenson, wife Karen, son Mitchell, 16, and Karen's 85-year-old mum Nessie
were staying at the Imperial Marhaba hotel in Sousse when Seifeddine Rezgui went
on the rampage.

They barricaded themselves inside their room and watched as the terrorist gunned
down 38 people, including at least 15 Britons.

They saw Rezgui shoot to kill with his Kalashnikov at point-blank range.

Jim, 51, and Mitchell were in their hotel room as the attack began and dashed
down to get Karen and Nessie, who walks with a stick.

For three terrifying hours, they barricaded themselves in the room and used
their mobile phones to film the scenes of panic as tourists fled in all
directions.

Jim, a former production director who now runs a taxi, said: "My son's a
teenager so he was lying in his bed.

"My wife's iPod had run out so I'd said I would take it up and charge it in the
room, we'd get Mitchell and go for lunch.

"I was in the room and we just heard what sounded like a firecracker going off.

"My son said, 'I know what that is from Call of Duty - that's an AK47'.

"I said to him, 'Don't be so daft - it's a firework or something'.

"I went out to the balcony and it was like World War Z - everybody was just
running.

"They weren't running full pelt. It was as if they were being swept along and
were asking themselves what it was they were  running from.

"I saw the gunman who came up from the beach. He turned and shot an older lady
who was coming down the stairs and she fell down dead."

Jim and Mitchell's first thought was for their loved ones on the beach. Jim
said: "We went down to find my wife and my mother-in-law. They were sitting up
not really taking in what had happened.

"There was a waiter with a tray of drinks who'd seen it all and basically threw
down the tray and started running. He was telling everyone, 'Run, run'.

"My wife grabbed my mother-in-law and they ran and made it into the hotel.

"We managed to get the four of us together. We grabbed a wee boy who was on his
own and got to our room.

"The wee boy's mum and brother had been hit by shrapnel from a grenade thrown I
think by one of the attackers.

"We just grabbed every piece of furniture we could and shoved it up against the
door and barricaded ourselves in.

"There were two easy chairs that were jammed in but we got them and tables and
dressers and just piled it all up.

"My mother-in-law has a dead leg, she's 85, but they managed to get a good start
and were able to run up to the hotel.

"She can hardly walk but they managed to run somehow."

The number of Britons killed in the attacks is expected to rise today after the
Foreign Office warned they formed "the majority" of the 38 dead. The first
British victim was named as newly engaged Carly Lovett, 24, from Gainsborough,
Lincolnshire. She was on holiday with fiance Liam Moore.

Others included Adrian Evans, who worked for Sandwell Council in the West
Midlands, and his nephew Joel Richards, 22.

Irish mother-of-two Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath, was believed to have
gone to the beach herself shortly before the shooting started.

Bruce Wilkinson, 72, from Goole, Humberside, was named last night as one of the
dead.

Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham in Tyne and Wear, was also killed. Her death was
confirmed by her son-in-law.

It remained unclear whether Rezgui - named as the killer by Islamic State as
they claimed responsibility - had acted alone.

The Stevenson family were interviewed by police as they arrived back in
Manchester yesterday before returning to their home in the south side of
Glasgow.

Jim was able to supply a vital eyewitness account of Rezgui's movements. He said
he believed there were two, possibly three people involved.

Jim added: "He didn't come right up the beach - he went along the beach.

"He went left to right. He then came round the left hand side of the pool.

"It didn't sound anything like gunfire you heard in the movies.

"It was a total panic - everyone was running up from the beach up into the
reception area.

"But then there was an attack from the reception back down the way.

"To me, it was organised. There was two of them, at least - probably three."

The family eventually got out of the room after six soldiers came to the door.

Jim said: "They had a key but we'd barricaded ourselves in. We told them to go
away and that we were fine.

"We were trying to get anything on the internet to find out if it was safe. We
were seeing police snipers on the roof nearby.

"We thought maybe they had hit lots of hotels - but it was only ours."

The family got to the airport in Tunisia about 2am yesterday and arrived in
Manchester at about 10am. Jim said: "Police back in Manchester asked us about
the gunmen, what they looked like and what they were wearing.

"Both my son and I think one of them was wearing khaki shorts. When he came to
the pool he has shorts, T-shirt on, AK47 and long black hair. It was surreal."

Cashier Karen, 49, said: "I'm glad to be back in Glasgow. We are very grateful
at how quickly Thomson got us out. I am just so happy to be home.

"We must commend the hotel staff, Thomson and their rep. They were incredible."

Maggie Crawshaw and her partner Jal Burt, from Comrie, Perthshire, were staying
at the Royal Kenz hotel next door to the Imperial Marhaba.

The couple returned home in the early hours of yesterday. Maggie, 60, said:
"People were still in shock."

Cameron Barr, 21, of Prestwick, is staying at the nearby Marhaba Palace hotel
with girlfriend Toni Gibson.

The support worker said: "Five minutes after it happened, everyone was
scrambling about trying to get people around the pool and beach area inside but
everyone was taking their time as nobody knew the seriousness of the situation.

"The water Zumba was on at the time and had music playing really loud.

"Once we knew, the hotel was put in lockdown and we're not allowed to leave the
hotel."

Divers yesterday recovered a mobile phone after being told a gunman had tossed
it into the sea before starting to shoot.

It will be examined by investigators for clues to possible accomplices.

Forty people, including 25 Britons, are being treated for injuries.

It's understood five have already been released from hospital and some of those
who suffered less serious injuries are believed to have already returned to the
UK.

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:03 AM GMT

Tunisia beach terror attack: Agony of daughter whose parents have been missing
since massacre;
HOLLY Graham, from Perth, says dad Billy and mum Lisa usually contact her every
day while on holiday - but didn't call her on Friday or today.

BYLINE: By Brendan McGinty

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 295 words


THE daughter of a Scots couple missing since being caught in the Tunisian
slaughter told of her distress tonight.

Holly Graham's dad Billy and mum Lisa usually contact her every day while on
holiday - but didn't call on Friday or yesterday.

The pair arrived at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel resort - the scene of Friday's
massacre - on June 17 and are due to come home on Wednesday.

Hotel staff have told 29-year-old Holly, of Perth, that they have not been to
their room since the attack and said their passports had been taken by police.

The room they were booked into has remained untouched with all their other
belongings.

Holly said: "I have been desperately trying to get information but nobody will
tell me anything and it is very distressing.

"I have been watching the news but I haven't heard anything about my parents.

"I have tried the Foreign Office, the hotel, the hospital in Tunisia and the
holiday firm Thomsons who they travelled with.

"Nobody can give me any information and everyone just says they will call me
back. But I haven't heard anything and I am so worried."

Billy, 51, booked the holiday as a treat for Lisa who celebrated her 50th
birthday earlier this year.

The couple re-booked after enjoying a holiday at the same resort last year.

Her friend Emma Gardiner, 24, said: "We have been watching the news all day and
Holly is very fearful. Her heart is racing and so is her mind. We want anyone
who thinks they may have useful information to contact us.

"We'd like to appeal to anyone on holiday there who has since returned to look
closely at Billy and Lisa's picture and if they have any useful information to
speak to us. Lisa has a distinctive tattoo on her arm of a cherub blowing a
horn."

Anyone with information can contact Holly on hlgraham85@hotmail.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

'Run for your lives' - Hampshire woman tells of fear on beach during Tunisia
terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 147 words


A HAMPSHIRE who witnessed the terror attack in Tunisia has spoken of the panic
as the drama unfolded.

Melanie Callaway was on the beach in Sousse when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui began
targeting tourists with his assault rifle.

Melanie, from Hedge End, said she saw sand exploding into the air as bullets
were sprayed around the beach.

Along with her friend, she ran back to their hotel and barricaded themselves in
their room for five hours.

The pair arrived back in the UK yesterday, having been lucky enough to get one
of the very first flights out of the country in the aftemath of the attack.

She said: "I heard what sounded like fireworks going off. I didn't really think
much of it to start with until they got louder and then realised it was a
machine gun sound.

"People were just shouting run for your lives, just run.

"We got up off our sunbeds, left everything there and just ran."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Dudley News

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

Tributes to Black Country family killed in Tunisia terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 284 words


TRIBUTES have been paid to a Sandwell Council worker and his nephew who have
been named among the dead following the Tunisian beach gun attack which killed
39 people.

Adrian Evans worked for Sandwell Council's gas management department.

His newphew Joel Richards, 19 and from Wednesbury, was also among the 15 Brits
killed in the gun attack in the popular beach resort of Sousse.

Mr Evans was on holiday with his father and brother at the time.

It is believed that Mr Evans' father Patrick Evans, was also killed.

Sandwell Council leader Darren Cooper described Mr Evans as "very popular" and
said he was deeply saddened to hear about his death.

Tributes have been paid to Mr Richards, a University of Worcester student and
"exceptionally" talented teenage footballer.

His friend, Reece Watters, has paid tribute to Joel, saying he "helped everyone
he ever come in contact with".

He posted on his Facebook page: "Theres no status or no words I could put here
that could describe to you how much of a kind guy Joel Richards was, if you knew
him personally you would know how respected he was and how he played such a big
part in many peoples lives.

"He never had anything bad to say about anybody, people would never argue with
him because of how likeable Joel was. He helped everyone he ever come in contact
with, even when it involved putting others before himself.

"It's so heartbreaking to think that he was on holiday when some scum decided to
do what he did to all those people including Joel. Rest In Peace bro,one of the
best mates I could ever have.

"You might be gone but you will never be forgotten."



* More will follow on this story. Did you know Mr Evans? Leave your tributes
below or on our facebook page.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 4:45 PM GMT

Tunisia Terror Attack: Huddersfield holidaymaker Debbie Horsfall returns home
after terror of gun massacre;
Debbie, 22, was locked in a room with 10 others as gunmen killed 37 people at a
Tunisian resort

BYLINE: By Louise Cooper

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 450 words


Huddersfield holidaymaker Debbie Horsfall made what she feared would be her last
ever call home while hiding from the terrorist gunman who brought horror and
death to a Tunisian beach.

Debbie - who arrived back home early on Saturday - has revealed that after
fleeing the gunman who killed 39 people in the resort of Sousse she made a phone
call from her hiding place in the hotel and feared the mass killer could find
her at any point.

The 22-year-old said: "I didn't want to phone home at first while it was still
going on as I didn't want to worry them. But then I thought I needed to ring
them in case it's the last time I do.

"It was terrifying. While I was still hiding I spoke to my dad on the phone. It
was awful because there was nothing he could do and we were both upset.

"We were trying to keep quiet so the gunmen didn't hear us. I had lost my friend
but we were in contact on our phones."

Debbie and her friend, Ellie Makin, were lying on sun beds on the beach next to
the hotel when a gunman pulled a weapon from an umbrella beside them.

Fortunately Ellie spotted the gunman and both girls fled to the hotel but
remained unsafe for over an hour until the building was locked down.

Debbie told previously how it was her friend Ellie who spotted the gun man
seconds before he began shooting and they fled.

"We got up and ran as fast as we could to our hotel reception," she said. "We
just saw panic - everyone just got up and fled as soon as we realised it was
gunfire."

The pair ran back to their hotel where other residents had gathered in the foyer
but were in danger again when a gunman fired shots into the building."

Terrorist attack in Tunisia

The pair were evacuated home after their ordeal and Debbie, who works at
Thongsbride Tennis Club, arrived at Manchester Airport on Saturday morning.

She said: "You want to believe it's not real. I didn't feel safe until the plane
landed. The majority of people in our hotel chose to come home."

And Debbie has now revealed that she made an emotional phone call to her parents
back home whilst she was hiding from the gunman.

Debbie said after they were told it was safe to return to the hotel she still
didn't feel safe and just wanted to come home.

"I do feel very lucky to have come home when I hear reports of what has happened
to others," she added. "Thompson were really helpful. We were told on Friday
night that six coaches were coming and 10 aircraft would be flying to
Manchester, Doncaster and Gatwick for anyone who wanted to go home.

"I arrived in Manchester at 5.40 on Saturday morning and my parents had left
home at 4am to meet me.

"I think its something that will always make me feel a bit wary, wherever I am
in the world, from now on."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 10:13 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Scots killed in the massacre, others are missing

BYLINE: Stephen Wilkie

LENGTH: 697 words


A SCOTTISH couple died in the Tunisian beach massacre, it was confirmed
yesterday.

NC

Jim and Ann McQuire were killed during the brutal terror attack

And another Scottish couple were last night missing and feared dead.

Jim and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld, near Glasgow, were due to return home to
their loved ones yesterday.

But instead of picking the couple up from Glasgow Airport, relatives were
grieving their loss.

Billy and Lisa Graham, from Bankfoot, Perthshire, remained unaccounted for -
leaving their relatives frantic with worry.

Mr and Mrs McQuire, both recently retired, were treating themselves to a  break
in the sun when the gunman struck on Friday.

Mr McQuire, 66, was a former marine engineer who worked in the shipyards and a
veteran of his local Boys' Brigade company.

Mrs McQuire, 63, worked as a receptionist at Craigmarloch Medical Centre in
Cumbernauld before retiring last year.

Their grief-stricken son Stuart, 32, confirmed that both his parents had been
killed, adding: "I just don't know what to say, I can't speak."

Last night, messages of condolence were posted on social media sites as news of
the couple's tragic death spread.

The 41st Edinburgh BB tweeted: "Sad to hear a good BB officer, Jim McQuire and
his wife, have been killed in the Tunisia shootings. Thoughts and prayers from
all at the 41st.'"

Confirmation of the McQuires' deaths followed a desperate appeal for information
from the couple's daughter-in-law, Nicola McQuire.

Messaging the Facebook page of tour operator Thomson, she wrote: "Where can we
get information about who has been accounted for?

"My husband has not heard from his parents and can't get any information from
your helpline."

Yesterday, Reverend Joyce Keyes of Abronhill Parish Church, where the Anchor
Boys and Boys' Brigade meet, paid tribute to the McQuires.

She said: "They were extremely important to the church community here. Jim was
an elder with the church and the captain of the Boys' Brigade and his loss must
impact on the wider community.

"I knew them very well. They were friends of mine as well as members of the
church.

"They took part in services here. Jim would play the guitar and Ann was a
beautiful singer.

"They're going to be very dreadfully missed not just by their family but also by
their church family.

GETTY

The beach in Tunisia was filled with flowers over the weekend after the attack

"They were a loving couple with a very close family.

"Jim had been working extremely hard with the Boys' Brigade for years and would
rush over after work on a Friday to help out.

"He had worked extremely hard to keep the numbers up in recent years and to keep
people coming along.

"Recently, three of the boys in the Cumbernauld 5th earned the Queen's Badge -
which is the highest possible honour you can achieve in the Boys' Brigade - and
he was so proud of them."

Missing Billy and Lisa Graham were last in contact with family in Scotland on
Thursday.

The pair arrived at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel resort - the scene of the attack
- on June 17 and were due to come home on Wednesday.

But there has been no contact with family - whom they called every day - since
before the attack.

Hotel staff told their daughter Holly, 29, of Perth, they had not returned to
their room since the massacre and said their passports had been taken by police.

Related articles Time to face the extremism taking hold in Britain says Leo
McKinstry Send in SAS to crush Jihadis: Demand for action after beach slaughter
Tunisia terror attack: Hours of terror at Tunisia holiday hotel after mass
killings

Mr Graham, 51, booked the holiday as a treat for his wife, who was celebrating
turning 50.

Holly, one of the couple's two daughters, said: "I have been desperately trying
to get information but nobody will tell me anything. When you phone the travel
company they just read a statement off a piece of paper.

"The Foreign Office say they just don't know where my parents are and that
they'll phone if and when they do. They don't even tell you what they're doing
to try to find people.

"A friend with a Tunisian husband got him to phone the hotel. The staff told him
that mum and dad have not been back to the room and no one knows where they
are."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 9:57 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Hours of terror at Tunisia holiday hotel after mass
killings

BYLINE: Katrine Bussey

LENGTH: 494 words


BLOOD from the massacre victims turned the sand the colour of terracotta, it was
revealed yesterday.

GETTY

The beach in Tunisia remains marked by the terror attack on Friday

Cal Sarwar flew back to Glasgow after being in Sousse, where he was researching
a book on Islamic terrorism in Africa.

The 50-year-old journalist from Falkirk had been staying in a neighbouring hotel
when the gunman struck. He had been swimming in a pool just metres away from the
scene, when he thought he heard fireworks.

He said: "I was in the pool, about 25 metres from the beach. I swim with
earplugs in, so I was swimming away and I put my head up and saw people running
past. The gunman had already run past by that time. That was it, people
screaming, pandemonium, chaos.

"We went to the beach and it was a terracotta colour, the blood had mixed with
the sand, it was just terracotta everywhere, like somebody had been painting.
People were dragging people out of the water, it was quite a horrible scene.

"I'm shocked and I will be for a long time."

He said there had been a heightened security presence in the area in the days
before the attack, but said it had been scaled back just the day before. Mr
Sarwar added: "Four days before the attack the whole atmosphere on the streets
of Tunisia changed. Instead of taxis taking you right to your hotel doors they
would drop you off at the gates, there were police blocks at the gates. But that
security presence disappeared on Thursday afternoon."

Sandra Clason, 53, said she and her partner James Erskine heard the gunfire from
the attack, adding the hotel they were in was "too close for comfort".

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Hero policeman downed ISIS gunman with
pistol as snipers missed Tunisia terror attack: Heroic Briton who shielded
fiancée from bullets is back in UK Time to face the extremism taking hold in
Britain says Leo McKinstry Send in SAS to crush Jihadis: Demand for action after
beach slaughter

Ms Clason, from Bo'ness, West Lothian, told how they had been coming out of
their hotel room when they heard the shots.

She said: "It was surreal, you hear it, and you know it's gunfire, but it was
like fireworks. You could hear it getting closer, then nothing."

She added: "We were coming down but we were told to get back to the room. We
were one of the lucky ones." Gail Merry, her husband Richard and their three
children, from Ayr, flew into Glasgow Airport and said she was relieved to be
home, adding: "We had never been to Tunisia before, everything about the country
was fantastic, we loved it, we had planned to go back annually. But there's not
the security there that there should have been."

Malcolm Lamont, from Perth, said: "I wasn't worried, the hotel we were in was
quite secure with guards on the gates, so we were told to stay in the hotel
area. The resort after the incident was locked down. It's sad for the locals,
tourism is the main thing, so all the hotel staff are worried about their jobs."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 6:19 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Heroic Briton who shielded fiancée from bullets is back
in UK

BYLINE: Levi Winchester

LENGTH: 590 words


THE HEROIC Briton who used himself as a human shield to protect his fiancée
during the Tunisia terror attack is back on British soil.

WALES NEWS SERVICE

Mathew James and Saera Wilson are now back in Wales

Mathew James, from Pontypridd, south Wales, selflessly flung himself in front of
his wife-to-be Saera Wilson to shield her from a terrorist gunman, who opened
fire on a popular tourist beach in Sousse.

The 30-year-old was shot at three times in the terror attack - once in the hip,
chest and shoulder - and was recovering in a Tunisian hospital following
surgery.

But now his mother has spoken of her relief after Mr James and Ms Wilson were
flown back to Britain this morning to continue his recuperation.

Kathryn Matthews described seeing Ms Wilson step off the plane, with Mr James
carried on a stretcher behind her, as the "most fantastic feeling".

She also revealed to Facebook friends that her son - known to pals as 'Sas' -
had held the hand of a dying man who had also been caught up in the attack.

Writing on Facebook, she said: "Sas and Saera are back on home turf and safe.

"He's in good spirits and is getting the very best of care.

"It was the most fantastic feeling seeing Saera step off the plane & Sas
stretchered off... [they are] back where they belong.

"So proud of him, after being the first to be shot and making sure Saera got to
safety, he held the hand of an elderly gent who lay dying next to him, totally
overwhelmed by it all."

WALES NEWS SERVICE

Mr James took three bullets protecting his fiancee Ms Wilson

Mrs Matthews added that her son, a gas engineer, is looking forward to being
reunited with his two children - Tegan, six, and 14-month-old Kaden.

The bravery of Mr James touched the hearts of the nation and also sparked an
online donation page, to raise cash for him while he continues his recovery.

So far, donations from across the country have reached just over £11,000 in two
days.

Organiser Ian Spedding said he does not personally know the couple, but felt
compelled to do something after seeing their story on the news.

He said: "We heard about the story and were discussing it on some gas engineer
forums, and it occurred to us that he might not be able to work for a while.

"He's one of our own and we look out for our own. If he's not working, his
family will need the support and it's good to see everyone rallying around him."

It was confirmed yesterday that at least 15 nationals were among the 38 people
brutally killed in the sickening attack on Friday afternoon.

Among those killed have been identified as a newly engaged beauty blogger, a
couple who had just brought their first home together and a football-loving
family.

The devastating attack, which took place when a gunman opened fire on sunbathing
holidaymakers on a beach near popular tourist hotels, also left 36 people
wounded.

Mr James' family issued a statement through South Wales Police confirming he and
his future wife had arrived back home.

A spokesman said: "Mathew is currently in a stable and comfortable condition in
hospital.

"He and his fiancee Saera are doing well, and are happy to be back in the UK.

"They wish to thank all of the medical teams in both Tunisia and the UK for all
of their professional assistance, care and support.

"They would also like to thank everyone involved in ensuring their safe return
to the UK and the support shown by family, friends and the public."

Related articles  Tunisia terror attack: Briton used body as human shield to
protect...  Tunisia terror attack: Thousands raised for Brit who was shot at...

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 3:18 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Tragedy as 3 members of same family among at least 15
British dead

BYLINE: Tom Batchelor, Rob Virtue, Rebecca Perring, Peter Henn, Scott Campbell &
Greg Heffer

LENGTH: 2202 words


AT LEAST 15 British victims have been identified among the 38 people killed in
an Islamic State terror attack at a Tunisian holiday hotspot.

GETTY·PA·SKY

A local boy with floral tributes to tourists gunned down by Islamist Seifeddine
Rezgui

A young photographer was named yesterday as the first British victim of the
atrocity, which saw sunbathing holidaymakers mown down in a hail of bullets with
36 also left wounded.

Carly Lovett, from Gainsborough, Lincolnshire, is believed to have been in the
North African country with friends and family since Tuesday, reports the
Lincolnshire Echo.

The 24-year-old is understood to have been engaged since last December.

Another British victim was named as Adrian Evans, who worked for Sandwell
Council as a manager in the gas services department.

A council source described the news as "horrendous" and said their thoughts were
with the family and council colleagues.

The third victim was later named as his nephew, 19-year-old local football
referee Joel Richards.

Mr Richards, who played for James Connollys GFC in Warwickshire, was described
by friends on social media as "ambitious" and "one of a kind".

Connollys GFC released the following statement last night: "James Connollys GFC
is devastated to learn of the death of one of our players, Joel Richards, during
the horrific attack in Tunisia."

Patrick Evans, 78, who was Mr Richards' Grandfather and Mr Evans' father, was
also killed.

Couple Scott Chalkley, 42, of Derby, and Sue Davey, also 42, of Tamworth,
Staffordshire, also died in the shooting.

Ms Davey's son, Conor Fulford, had desperately appealed for information on
social media before learning of her death.

Married couple Jim, 66, and Anne McQuire, 63, from Cumbernauld, Lanarkshire,
have also been named among the dead.

Mr McQuire was a volunteer with the Boys' Brigade, and worked as a marine
engineer before retiring.

Trudi Jones, of Blackwood, Wales, was also killed.

IG

Carly Lovett is the first British victim to be named

IG

Adrian Evans was named as the second victim

IG

Joel Richards was later named as the third victim of the attack

Yesterday afternoon, the Foreign Office said 15 Britons have died in the beach
massacre but the toll "may well rise".

Tory MP and Foreign Office minister Tobias Ellwood added that it was "the most
significant terrorist attack on the British people" since the London Underground
bombings on July 7, 2005.

Earlier, Tunisian officials said Britons, a German and a Belgian had been
identified among the victims so far.

Irish mother-of-two Lorna Carty is also said to be among the dead, along with
French nationals.

Norfolk Police today confirmed a member of its support staff was among those
injured in the attack.

Tony Callaghan, who works as a property officer, was with his wife on holiday
when they were both injured in the shooting.

Their injuries required hospital treatment but are not life-threatening.

Earlier, Tunisia's Prime Minister Habib Essid told a press conference the
"majority" of victims are British.

David Cameron warned the UK public to be prepared for the fact "many of those
killed" in the "savage" shooting were Britons.

Lisa Burbidge, who was in her 60s and from Gateshead, Tyne & Wear, was also
killed in the attack.

She was on holiday with her family at the time.

Bruce Wilkinson, 72, of Goole, Yorkshire, was also killed.

IG

Seifeddine Rezgui has been named by Islamic State as the gunman

TWITTER

The gunman is pictured prowling with his rifle

Foreign Office staff have headed to Tunisia, while thousands of British
holidaymakers have begun returning from north Africa to UK airports.

Holidays to Sousse were this morning cancelled by major tour operators TUI group
- which owns Thomson and First Choice and runs the Imperial Marhaba hotel where
the shooting took place.

Islamic State social media accounts today claimed they were behind Friday's
attack, as the militants released photos of 23-year-old student Seifeddine
Rezgui, who uses the jihadi pseudonym Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani, who they claimed
to be the gunman.

Rezgui posed as a tourist before pulling a Kalashnikov hidden in a beach
umbrella and firing at people relaxing on a beach in Sousse on the Mediterranean
coast.

He was reportedly laughing as he carried out the massacre and deliberately
selected British tourists.

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: "He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy.

"He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to them, 'You go
away'.

"He was choosing tourists, British, French."

Despite initially believing there was more than one gunman, the Tunisian
authorities later said the solo killer had not previously been known to their
security services.

His killing spree on the beach at the Riu Bellevue Park ended when he was shot
dead by police.

A bomb was also found on his body.

IG

Lorna Carty is among the Brits killed in Tunisia

Shocking video footage taken by one of the eyewitnesses showed the carnage at
the holiday resort in the immediate aftermath.

A clip posted to YouTube showed people at the tourist destination in panic and
running away from gun shots which were heard ringing through the air.

The distressing clip also showed dead bodies laying on the beach after the
brutal terrorist attack.

**WARNING: GRAPHIC CONTENT PICTURE AND VIDEO BELOW**

TWITTER

This unverified photo reportedly shows the gunman lying dead
brightcove.createExperiences;

A Welshman is in hospital in a serious condition after using his body as a human
shield to protect his fiancee from being killed by the gunman.

Gas engineer Matthew James, 30, from south Wales, was hit in the shoulder, chest
and hip, as he acted as a human shield to save Sarah Wilson.

Speaking from the hospital in Tunisia, Sarah, 26, said: "He took a bullet for
me. I owe him my life because he threw himself in front of me when the shooting
started."

Among the other harrowing stories coming out of the African state, a 16-year-old
Brit told how they witnessed their parents and grandmother killed.

A Tunisian radio station reported the teen was being treated for their injuries
in hospital.

Lorna Carty was taking her husband on holiday to help him recover from heart
surgery, family friends have said.

Mrs Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath, was believed to have gone to the beach by
herself in Sousse when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse, aged in her 50s, and had a son and a daughter.

Her husband, a dairy farmer, is said to be uninjured but "absolutely
distraught".

A family friend said Mr and Mrs Carty were due to leave Tunisia to return to
Ireland just hours after the massacre.

The friend said: "They went out last Friday and they were due home tonight.

"Declan was in the hotel and Lorna went out to get a last bit of sun before
leaving.

"When he heard all the commotion he went out, then he recognised the towel and
the blood on it.

"He's devastated."

WALES NEWS

Matthew James took three bullets after jumping in front of fiancee to protect
her from the gunman

A British tennis coach who had been on holiday in Tunisia since Wednesday, said
she saw the gunman attack.

On the verge of tears Ellie Makin, 22, said: "I was on the beach in front of our
resort when I saw a guy walking around with an umbrella.

"All of a sudden he dropped the umbrella and had a gun, and he started shooting
everyone to the right of me."

She added: "There was blood everywhere.

"I was terrified, overwhelmed, shaken up and shocked. There are no words.

"There have been people missing from our resort and others. It could have been a
very different story if he had started shooting left instead of right."

Sousse is one of Tunisia's most popular beach resorts, drawing visitors from
Europe and neighbouring North African countries.

A British holidaymaker described hearing a large explosion followed by a chaotic
scene with tourists running around the hotel.

Briton Mary Norman said she also narrowly missed the attack.

She said: "We heard an explosion and then gunfire.

"A security guard said the gunmen were dressed like police."

This has been contradicted by other hotel workers who described the attacker as
wearing "tourist's clothes".

Tunisia Tourism ministry, World Travel and Tourism council

Statistics and figures from Tunisia

Another tourist, Susan Rickett, on holiday in Sousse, described how "everybody
starting running in and screaming" after gunfire was heard on the beach.

She added: "It sounded like a machine gun going off...there was an explosion a
little later."

Fellow Briton Gary Pine said he was on the beach and heard what "we thought was
firecrackers going off" 100 yards away, followed by an explosion from the next
hotel complex along.

He said "there was a mass exodus off the beach" and his son said he had seen
someone get shot on the beach.

Mr Pine said that guests at his hotel were first told to lock themselves in
their rooms, and later to gather in the lobby.

Elizabeth O'Brien, an Irish woman on holiday with her two sons in the resort,
described how she grabbed her children and ran for their lives when they heard
gunfire erupting from one of the hotels.

"We were on the beach, my sons were in the sea and I just got out of the sea.

"It was about 12 o'clock and I just looked up about 500 metres from me and I saw
a balloon collapse down, then rapid firing, then I saw two of the people who
were going to go up in the balloon start to run towards me - because I thought
it was fireworks.

"So, I thought 'oh my God, it sounds like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to
my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the
waiters and the security on the beach started saying 'run, run run!' and we just
ran to our room, which is like a little bungalow.

"So we are actually trapped in our room."

INSTAGRAM·CHERVONEC

Graphic image reportedly showing the scene on the beach in Sousse

TWITTER·MOURADTEYEB

Casualties were reported on the beach in Tunisia

The Tunisia terror attack came on the same day as a lone terrorist beheaded a
man at a factory in France.

Friday also saw a bloody massacre carried out by Islamic State in Kuwait, where
explosions were heard at a Shiite mosque after Friday prayers.

It is not known if there is a link between the atrocities, although the
jihadists have called for more attacks during the Islamic holy month on Ramadan.

Next Tuesday, June 30, also marks the first anniversary of Islamic State
declaring their 'caliphate' in Syria and Iraq.

The killings at the Sousse resort are the second terrorist attack on tourists in
Tunisia this year.

Tunisia has been on high alert since March when the Islamist militant gunmen
attacked the Bardo museum in Tunisia, killing a group of foreign tourists in one
of the worst attacks in a decade in the North African country.

A failed attack also took place at a hotel in the same Sousse resort in October
2013.

Sousse is seen as an important econimic driver for Tunisia.

More than 1.2million pepople visit every year, most of them Europeans.

Tourists are attracted to its excellent beaches and fascinating cultural
attractions including a ninth century mosque and UNESCO World Heritage Site at
the medina.

Its Mediterranean climate has led to the creation of hotels providing 40,000
beds.

Related articles Could TURKEY be next? ISIS terror threat to MILLIONS of
holidaymakers PM calls emergency meeting as ex-extremist warns UK could face
terror attack 'within days' Tunisa terror attack: Brit teen who survived
massacre saw family gunned down and killed ISIS terror suspect got chemical
plant delivery job while ON French spies' EXTREMIST list

AP

29 people are now believed to have been killed in the attack

AP

An image taken from Tunisia TV1 of injured people being treated at the scene of
the attack

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond insisted that travel advice issued in the wake
of the March attack in Tunisia was "appropriate" as he rejected the suggestion
that an opportunity was missed to warn Britons to stay away from Tunisia.

Mr Hammond said that travel advice would be kept under "constant review"
following the latest atrocity and will be considered at the next meeting of the
Government's Cobra emergency committee.

Quizzed on whether travel advice should have been tightened to prevent Britons
from travelling to the North African country after the March attack, Mr Hammond
replied: "We have to balance the way we set out travel advice, looking at the
facts around these incidents.

"Of course an incident like this can occur anywhere. I'm confident that the
travel advice we set was appropriate but we are now of course reviewing that"

Foreign Office sources said the advice given to Britons about travelling to
Tunisia was in line with that given by other European countries to their
citizens.

The latest advice warns "there is a high threat from terrorism, including
kidnapping".

"Attacks could be indiscriminate, including in places visited by foreigners."

The Foreign Office has set up a helpline on 020 7008 0000 for those concerned
about relatives.

EXPRESS

A map of the area, including popular tourist hotels caught up in the attack
Related articles  PICTURED: The moment Tunis museum suspect arrives in Europe...
Man BEHEADED by Islamic State extremists in French factory attack

GETTY

Sousse is a popular resort town with foreign tourists
brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 2:25 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Hero policeman downed ISIS gunman with pistol as snipers
missed

BYLINE: Suz Elvey

LENGTH: 406 words


A HERO policeman ended the reign of terror of an Islamic State gunman on a
Tunisian beach when he downed him with two bullets from his pistol - after
snipers had repeatedly missed him.

IG

ISIS gunman Seifeddine Rezgui killed 38 people

The unnamed hero, who says he has been haunted by Friday's terror attack,
revealed it took two bullets to take down Seifeddine Rezgui, who shot dead 39
people on a packed Sousse beach on, including 15 Britons.

He told the Sunday Mirror: "I put two bullets in him. I haven't slept since."

Sniper marksmen reportedly climbed onto the roofs of nearby hotels at the
popular resort and took aim at the gunman as he calmly walked down a side street
carrying an assault rifle and grenades.

But as their bullets missed him time and time again, the lone policeman took
action, killing Rezgui with two blasts from his handgun.

One witness described how terrified members of the public cheered when the
murderer was finally shot dead.

Speaking to the newspaper, ex-pat Vicci Spencer, 38, originally from Grimsby,
said: "He was just walking along the road, like nothing had happened. They were
firing shots at him but just kept missing.

"But when he was eventually killed they closed off the road and bomb disposal
experts came and collected the grenades.

"When it was clear and everything was OK the locals were cheering and
celebrating his death."

EPA

Tributes on Sousse beach

The policeman wasn't the only person hailed a hero following Friday's massacre.

Brave Matthew James, 30, from Pontypridd, south Wales, used his body as a human
shield to protect fiancée Sarah Wilson from the gunman's bullets.

He suffered a heart attack after being shot in the hip, chest and shoulder while
throwing himself between his 26-year-old wife-to-be and the terrorist.

He is now recovering in hospital.

Rezgui came from the town of Gaafour in the Siliana region of Tunisia and had
been a student at the University of Kairouan.

His family and neighbours reacted with shock at the news he was a killer, saying
no one had seen it coming.

Rezgui's uncle Ali Al-Rezgui said his nephew enjoyed football, break-dancing and
going to a cafe after praying at the local mosque and was "just like the other
young men".

Neighbour Monia Riahi suggested he may have been "brainwashed" by extremists.

Related articles  Tunisia terror attack: 'I played dead as the killer stood over
me'  Tunisia terror attack: Neighbours say gunman was a 'good man who...

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 2:11 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Neighbours say gunman was a 'good man who was never in
trouble'

BYLINE: Scott Campbell

LENGTH: 434 words


THOSE who knew the gunman killed by police after slaughtering 39 people in
Tunisia have spoken of their shock at his murderous actions.

GETTY

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui liked breakdancing as shown in this video clip

Seifeddine Rezgui came from the town of Gaafour in the Siliana region, the
country's prime minister Habib Essid revealed yesterday.

He had been a student at the University of Kairouan and had never travelled
abroad.

Rezgui's uncle said he was "just like the other young men" who liked to play
football or go to a cafe after praying in the local mosque.

He liked break dancing and was well-known for entering competitions in the
capital Tunis, Ali Al-Rezgui said.

Referring to the practice of devout Muslim men not shaving their beards, Mr
Al-Rezgui said: "He didn't even have a beard."

Related articles  Tunisia terror attack: 'I played dead as the killer stood over
me'  Tunisia terror attack: Thousands raised for Brit who was shot at...

He added: "We were all shocked when we heard the news and saw his picture, and
his mother was devastated."

Neighbours suggested the gunman may have been brainwashed.

Monia Riahi, 50, who is a neighbour and family friend, described him as "good,
good, good!".

She said: "I've known him since he was small. He was never in trouble with
anyone ever. Maybe he was brainwashed or something."

Rezgui's father, who is a day labourer working on farms or the nearby railway
line, has reportedly been taken to the Tunisian capital for police questioning.

brightcove.createExperiences;

Neighbour Ammar Fazai, 64, said: "I think maybe, just maybe, it was poverty that
did it."

But other reports said Rezgui had posted extremist messages on social media,
praising jihad.

Kairouan resident Salah Korbia said Rezgui and his four flatmates, thought to be
students, were not welcome in the town due to their conservative ideology.

Images have emerged of the the gunman standing barefoot on the beach dressed in
a black T-shirt and shorts, with a gun in his hand.

Photographs taken after the attack appeared to show Rezgui's body after he was
shot by police.

GETTY

The beach terror attack has shocked the world Related articles Tunisia terror
attack: Three victims named among British dead in 'worst attack since 7/7'
Tunisia terror attack: Blogger, council worker and football referee among
British victims Tunisia terror attack: Gunman 'seemed like just a normal guy'
Tunisia terror attack: British teenager saw his brother and uncle shot dead on
the beach Tunisia terror attack: Thousands raised for Brit who was shot at while
protecting fiancée

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:12 PM GMT

David Cameron in wake of terror attacks: 'We will beat terrorism'

BYLINE: Marco Giannangeli

LENGTH: 360 words


ISLAMIC terrorists will "only unite us more strongly in our determination to
defeat" them, David Cameron said yesterday.

GETTY

Prime Minister David Cameron

The Prime Minister made his comments after the Cobra emergency committee met for
the second time in two days and plain-clothes reconnaissance troops were
deployed across Britain.

Friday's security briefing was chaired by Philip Hammond.

The Foreign Secretary appeared "visibly shaken", sources said, as details of the
attack on tourists in Tunisia unfolded.

Yesterday Mr Cameron warned Britain to prepare for a high death toll from the
beach slaughter which has already claimed 38 lives.

He said: "I'm afraid that the British public need to be prepared.

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Desperate relatives appeal for news over
fate of loved ones Tunisia terror attack: Blogger, council worker and football
referee among British victims Britain warned: Expect new terror attack tomorrow

"These were innocent holidaymakers... they did not pose a threat to anybody.
These terrorists murdered them because the terrorists oppose people and
countries who stand for peace, tolerance and democracy. These terrorists will
not succeed. As much as they try to divide people they will only unite us more
strongly in our determination to defeat these Islamist extremists and all that
they stand for."

The Prime Minister confirmed that heightened security was in place for Armed
Forces Day yesterday. Last night the Sunday Express learned about 250 troops
from the Special Reconnaissance Regiment are to patrol key sites in support of
the Counter Terrorist Command.

About 40 per cent of the SRR are Muslim soldiers, commended for undercover work
in Afghanistan.

Unarmed and in civilian clothes, they will observe busy sites or known threats
amid indications that attacks here could follow those on Friday.

Last night teams of Special Forces advisers were flown to Cyprus.

Military sources say the fear is that British tourists could be kidnapped and
held hostage.

Warship Bulwark, which was due to return to the UK, could remain in case of an
evacuation.

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:06 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: 'I played dead as the killer stood over me'

BYLINE: James Fielding in Tunisia

LENGTH: 1302 words


TWO BRITISH survivors told yesterday how they were forced to play dead as the
Tunisian terrorist reloaded inches from their heads.

MARK KEHOE-AFP

The British holidaymakers were lucky to escape the shootings

Great-grandmother Angela Evans, 67, lay face down in the sand motionless with
her friend and neighbour Belda Butauskiere, 49, for 10 minutes during the
bloodbath while gunman Seifeddine Rezgui murdered already wounded holidaymakers
in cold blood.

Mrs Evans, of Kings Lynn, Norfolk, told how he stood over her and reloaded to
"finish her off" but was distracted by noises further up the beach.

The distraction saved her life.

Rezgui, 23, arrived on the beach in an inflatable boat at noon on Friday,
dressed as a barefoot tourist in shorts and top.

He pulled a Kalashnikov from an umbrella and began his rampage of murder,
deliberately targeting westerners.

In a strap around his chest he carried home-made grenades, padded with ball
bearings, which he hurled at guests inside and outside hotels.

After 20 minutes he was shot dead by Tunisian security services.

Describing her ordeal, Mrs Evans said: "We were lounging on the sunbeds when we
heard noises similar to firecrackers. I looked up and there was the gunman
dressed in black. He was shooting indiscriminately at people.

"He then approached those who were dying and shot them execution-style. We tried
to run but had fallen over in a panic. I whispered to Belda to play dead and we
both just lay flat, face down in the sand, as though we were corpses.

"I could sense the gunman was close by. His feet were just inches from my head.
Then I heard him change the magazine in his gun. At this point I began to say a
prayer in my head. I thought we were next and he was going to finish us off. But
at that moment we heard some commotion elsewhere and he seemed to be distracted
by that and wandered off.

"We played dead for about five more minutes until we heard screaming coming from
the hotel lobby and we knew that's where he had headed.

"We then got up carefully and wandered to the hotel next door, the Bellevue. On
the way we saw holidaymakers lying dead with bullet holes in them. When we got
to the Bellevue a member of staff hid us in his office until everything calmed
down."

Mrs Evans, a grandmother-of-four and great-grandmother-of-one, flew out on
Thursday and was supposed to be in Tunisia for a week.

However, last night she and Mrs Butauskiere were preparing to fly home.

She said: "I'm still in shock. This is the last thing you expect to happen on
holiday. I'm just so thankful that myself and Belda are OK, but my heart goes
out to those who lost their lives."

Mrs Butauskiere, who lives next door to Mrs Evans in Kings Lynn, said: "When we
first saw the gunman we mistook him for a police officer.

GETTY

Imperial Marhaba Hotel, where 38 holidaymakers were shot dead

"Then he started to kill people at random and after that it just became a blur.
If we had not played dead we would not be here today.

"It has been a nightmare, now we just want to go home." T

he women were both staying at the Imperial Mahiba Hotel.

Another survivor, Elizabeth McMillan, 43, was staying at the same hotel with her
husband Stuart and two friends.

The mother-of-two said: "We were sunbathing on the beach, listening to music
when we heard the noise. It sounded like Chinese firecrackers.

"Stuart grabbed me and told me to move. We hit the sand and when I turned round
I saw the guy firing a machine gun. He was about 20ft away.

"I started to run. I turned round and saw the gunman stand over a man on the
beach and shoot him. I think he was already dead but the gunman was making sure.
I knew I had to get away. I kept running but it was hard on the sand.

"I then saw the gunman go towards the hotel."

Mrs McMillan was separated from her husband but found her friend and hid behind
a sand dune before being beckoned into a neighbouring hotel.

She barricaded herself in a room with two Hungarian tourists and didn't find
Stuart for another two hours.

"We were separated and I didn't know if he was OK," she said.

"Stuart didn't know were I was and needed to know I wasn't lying on the beach.
He walked back on to the beach past several bodies that were covered up.

"We saw loungers covered in blood, there were chips on the marble stairs where
bullets had hit, there were smashed doors."

Mrs McMillan, who lives in Glasgow, is now among the thousands of British
tourists waiting to be flown home.

Tony Callaghan, 63, a police officer from Norfolk, was treated for non
lifethreatening injuries along with his wife at Sahloul University Hospital.

ENTERPRISE NEWS

One of the British victims, Carly Lovett

GETTY

Tourists walking along the beach where the gunman shot 38 people

GETTY

A note, written in German, left on the beach in Tunisia

GETTY

Suspected gunman Seifeddine Rezgul

He said: "It was absolutely terrifying, we were literally running for our lives.
It was a click of a finger whether you lived or died. I feel so sorry for the 38
people who didn't make it."

Yesterday the beach outside the Imperial hotel was cordoned off but evidence of
the carnage was still clear.

Spots of blood could be seen in the sand and a book left discarded in the panic
was still left eerily on a sun lounger.

Bottles were strewn across the beach and an inflatable lilo remained where it
had been dropped.

Floral tributes had been left at the scene of the shootings with a message in
both German and English asking simply "Why?"

There were thought to be only two Britons still in hospital last night.

They included Kirsty Murray, who was shot in the arms and legs but is stable.
Her father Neil Murray flew to Tunisia on Friday night to be at her bedside.

He said: "She is OK but really shaken up. I have not managed to talk to her too
much but what she has told me was that it was horrible."

Intensive care nurse Isabelle Santrn said 13 British tourists, one Russian and
one Ukranian were taken to the hospital.

She said: "One of the British holidaymakers died in the ambulance. I don't know
anything more about him other than he was an elderly gentleman and was dressed
just in his bathing shorts.

"He had been shot several times in the legs as he lay on the beach. He died of
massive blood loss."

British author Cal Sawar had been in Tunisia researching the country's terrorist
links.

Mr Sawar, from Falkirk, makes regular trips to the country.

He said: "I have been out here for the last 12 days and you could sense that
something was building up. The police have been very jumpy these last few days.

LORNA CARTY

Another British victim, Lorna Carty

GETTY

A woman mourning on the beach of the fatal attack

GETTY

Flowers and notes were left on the beach for the victims Related articles
Tunisia terror attack: Blogger, council worker and football referee among
British victims Britain warned: Expect new terror attack tomorrow 'I played dead
as the killer stood over me': Horrific moment for British great-grandmother

"There has been a greater police and security presence recently than when I was
last here 18 months ago.

"About five days ago I watched dozens of armed police from two armoured trucks
run shouting into a block of flats near one of the hotels but it was a false
alarm.

"When the gunman struck I was further down the beach and witnessed people
running around in mass panic. I got the feeling that the police and guards knew
there was something up and knew something was imminent but were caught out."

Among those stopping to look at the floral tributes was British holidaymaker
Adam Goodwiin, 36, from Saffron Walden, Essex, who said: "Nobody should ever die
on holiday, it is a tragedy.

"There are only a few people sunbathing today but what can you do? If you hide
away in your room then the terrorists have won."

Additional reporting by Jaymi McCann.

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:02 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: 'The world seemed to stop for a minute', say British
tourists

BYLINE: Rob Virtue

LENGTH: 1035 words


BRITISH tourists caught in the horror of the Tunisian terror attack have spoken
of their lucky escapes at the hands of the maniac gunman.

TWITTER·NATIONAL·MERCURY

Ellie Makin, Debbie Horsfall and Olivia Leathley were all caught in the attack

Tennis coach Ellie Makin who had been on holiday in Tunisia since Wednesday,
said she saw the Islamic State fighter attack, leaving 37 dead, including Brits.

The 22-year-old said she was at the scene when he struck.

She said: "I was on the beach in front of our resort when I saw a guy walking
around with an umbrella.

"All of a sudden he dropped the umbrella and had a gun, and he started shooting
everyone to the right of me.

"He was to the right of me. I got up and just happened to look right and I saw
the gun and the umbrella being dropped and then he started firing to the right.

"If he had fired to the left I don't know what would have happened. We're quite
lucky."

She said she ran into our hotel reception for cover.

She added: "The gunman was medium height, with black hair, top and black khaki
trousers or shorts.

"I saw a guy get shot in the stomach and then another in the head. There was
blood everywhere.

"I was terrified, overwhelmed, shaken up and shocked. There are no words."

TWITTER

Tennis coach Ellie Makin said there was "blood everywhere"

Another Brit Matthew James is fighting for his life three bullets to save his
fiancee Sarah Wilson in the attack.

She spoke of the tragedy and said "it was the bravest thing I've ever known".

Olivia Leathley, 24, was with her boyfriend Mike Jones.

She said they grabbed each others hands when the shooting started and ran for
their lives.

They survived by barricading themselves in a nearby office.

In a phone call to her brother Andrew, she said: "I ran faster than I ever have
in my life. There are gunmen everywhere.

"I was running through the hotel lobby when I came face to face with a man with
a machine gun.

"The world seemed to stop for a minute before I quickly ran the other way and
ran for my life."

Debbie Horsfall, 22, hid in a room with 10 other people for more than an hour as
they waited for the shooting to stop at the resort town of Sousse.

The receptionist from Huddersfield who arrived on Wednesday, said she and her
friend are looking to leave the country as soon as possible.

She said: "We were just lying on the beach when we heard gunfire.

"I didn't see it myself, my friend just shouted "run, gun!

MERCURY

Olivia Leathley with her boyfriend Mike Jones

"We just got up and legged it as fast as we could.

"They wanted us to go back to our hotel room but we refused because we were on
the ground floor and knew we wouldn't be safe.

"Then I thought there was a gunman outside. Some people ran up the stairs, and I
ran into a random room with 10 others for about an hour until we knew the gunman
was dead or had been shot."

Ms Horsfall said she thought she was going to die.

She added: "There was nowhere safe to go.

"All I could think was 'I am not going to make it.' I feel sick now because of
everything that has gone on.

"We came out because the cleaner hiding with us went to reception and they said
it was all fine.

"I was very wary when we came out - I just didn't know what had happened until
somebody in the group saw a picture of the guy dead.

"Our hotel is now surrounded by the police and we are not allowed on the beach.

"I have had so many people texting me and messaging me.

"We are going to leave as soon as we are able. We will fly anywhere, to Scotland
if necessary."

NATIONAL

Debbie Horsfall hid in a room with 10 others in Tunisia

Briton Mary Norman said she also narrowly missed the attack.

She said: "We heard an explosion and then gunfire.

"We were on the beach five minutes earlier and had come up to the pool.

"All sun beds were taken. There were people like ourselves there and people in
the sea. It was just relaxed."

Another tourist, Susan Rickett, on holiday in Sousse, described how "everybody
starting running in and screaming" after gunfire was heard on the beach.

She added: "It sounded like a machine gun going off...there was an explosion a
little later."

David Schofield who heard an explosion while sunbathing by the pool said: "We
heard people saying there were guns on the beach and people were shooting on the
beach.

"I don't know what's going on.

"I went to reception and they said the police have told us to get everyone
inside.

"About five minutes ago I saw some people running. There are some people on the
roof but I think that's a representative from the hotel.

"No one is injured that I can see."

"So we are actually trapped in our room."

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: At least FIVE British tourists among 37
killed in 'ISIS shooting' PM calls emergency meeting as ex-extremist warns UK
could face terror attack 'within days' Tunisia terror attack: Briton used body
as human shield to protect fiancee being killed ISIS terror suspect got chemical
plant delivery job while ON French spies' EXTREMIST list

Fellow Briton Gary Pine said he was on the beach and heard what "we thought was
firecrackers going off" 100 yards away, followed by an explosion from the next
hotel complex along.

He said: "There was a mass exodus off the beach" and his son said he had seen
someone get shot.

He said guests at his hotel were first told to lock themselves in their rooms,
and later to gather in the lobby.

Elizabeth O'Brien, an Irish woman on holiday with her two sons in the resort,
described how she grabbed her children and ran for their lives when they heard
gunfire erupting from one of the hotels.

"We were on the beach, my sons were in the sea and I just got out of the sea.

"It was about 12 o'clock and I just looked up about 500 metres from me and I saw
a balloon collapse down, then rapid firing, then I saw two of the people who
were going to go up in the balloon start to run towards me - because I thought
it was fireworks.

"So, I thought 'oh my God, it sounds like gunfire', so I just ran to the sea to
my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the
waiters and the security on the beach started saying 'run, run run!' and we just
ran to our room, which is like a little bungalow.

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Hartlepool Mail

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

UK medical team flies out to help Tunisia terror attack victims

BYLINE: Press Association

LENGTH: 729  words


A medical liaison team has been dispatched to Tunisia to help those affected by
the beach massacre, which has left at least 15 Britons dead.

Home Secretary Theresa May said the British death toll remains at 15, but the
number is expected to rise as more information comes out.

Speaking after chairing a meeting of the Government's emergency cobra committee
this morning, Mrs May said the Government was also sending a team to look at
security arrangements in the area, which attracts thousands of western tourists
every year.

A total of 38 people were killed in the attack at a beach resort in Sousse on
Friday, while 39 others were wounded.

The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice to warn that further terrorist
attacks in Tunisia are possible and urged people to be vigilant.

Mrs May told reporters: "The figure for the number of confirmed dead remains at
15, but we should expected that that figure is going to rise."

The news comes as Mrs May indicated British officials are struggling to identify
the victims of the Tunisian terror atrocity because few of the holidaymakers
were carrying anything.

Mrs May said Britons gunned down in the "appalling" massacre would not have had
passports or other forms of identification with them on the beach and some
victims were being moved between hospitals in the country.

Mrs May said there was no evidence that gunman Seifeddine Rezgui had chosen the
Sousse resort because of the high number of Britons that flock to the popular
holiday destination.

But the terror threat Britain is facing is becoming more diverse with a
possibility of more spontaneous lone wolf attacks attacks, she added.

Over the last decade about 40 terror plots are believed to have been foiled by
the security services.

Mrs May told BBC One's Andrew Marr Show: "What's important is that the
information is absolutely 100% correct when it is given to a family.

"If you can imagine, these are circumstances, because of the circumstances of
the attack, people won't have had documents with them, they won't necessarily
have had phones.

"Some people are being moved between hospitals, so the team on the ground are
making every effort to ensure that they get accurate information."

Asked if the beach had been targeted because of the high number of British
tourists using it, she replied: "This is still ongoing investigations and we are
working very closely with the Tunisian authorities in relation to this.

"I've seen no evidence so far that this was targeted because there are British
tourists there, but, of course we must recognise this is the most significant
loss of life in a terrorist attacks since 7/7."

Asked about reports that four major plots in London in the last few months have
been halted, Mrs May said: "Yes, a number of plots have been stopped.

"Over the last ten years it's estimated that something like 40 plots have been
disrupted here in the UK.

"The threat has become more diverse over time. It has changed over time. That's
why it's important for us to sustain the counter-terrorism capabilities of the
agencies.

"We see that you have not just those who will plot for some time, perhaps in a
group to undertake a complex attack, but also the possibility of more
spontaneous attacks, these so-called lone wolf attacks."

Mrs May said the government will be introducing a counter-extremism strategy to
tackle radicalisation.

Since December 2013 more than 70,000 pieces of extremist material have been
removed from the internet, she added.

Mrs May said: "We want to work with families and communities so if they are
seeing signs of somebody being radicalised, if they are concerned about the
behaviour perhaps of their son or daughter or perhaps of somebody's friend that
they are actually able to come forward to the authorities and talk to us about
this so we can perhaps stop somebody from going down that path of
radicalisation."

Meanwhile, the number of Irish victims of the Tunisia attack has been officially
confirmed as three.

Ireland's Minister for Foreign Affairs Charlie Flanagan said an Irish couple
missing since Friday's massacre are among the dead.

An Irish mother-of-two, Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath, had already be
named as a victim of the massacre.

The couple, named locally as Laurence and Martina Hayes, both aged in their 50s,
from the town of Athlone in Co Westmeath in the Irish Midlands, were holidaying
in the resort.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPHM


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

France terror attack suspect 'took selfie with beheaded victim'

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 128 words


THE main suspect in the beheading of a French businessman took a "selfie" photo
with the victim and sent the image to at least one recipient, officials said.

Authorities are working to confirm the identity of the recipient, but were not
able to immediately confirm media reports that it was sent to an unspecified
person in Syria, two French officials said.

On Friday, key suspect Yassine Salhi allegedly crashed a truck into a US-owned
chemical warehouse and hung his employer's severed head on a factory gate in
Saint-Quentin-Fallavier - in what authorities are calling a terror attack.

He was arrested and remained in police custody on Saturday.

Authorities noted the similarity to tactics used by Islamic State, though no
group has claimed responsibility for the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 4:50 PM GMT

Extra relief flights to bring tourists back to Manchester from Tunisia;
Thomson and First Choice are continuing to repatriate customers currently in the
North African country after the Sousse terror attack on Friday

BYLINE: By Chris Slater

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 363 words


Another aircraft bringing holidaymakers back from crisis-hit Tunisia is to
arrive in Manchester on Monday.

Thomson and First Choice are continuing to repatriate customers currently in the
North African country after the Sousse terror attack on Friday.

And a further 12 mercy flights are due to leave today, with one of those landing
into Manchester Airport.

It will leave Enfidha at 11:45pm local time tonight (Sunday) before arriving
into Manchester just before 3am on Monday morning.

The company had earlier confirmed some of its customers were among those caught
up in the bloodshed, which saw 39 people killed including at least 15 Brits.

A spokesman for Thomson and First Choice said: "We'd like to reassure all other
customers that our team is working round the clock, handling a continuously
moving and challenging situation, to make the necessary arrangements for our
customers in Tunisia who wish to return to the UK and we ask that they please
bear with us.

"Those affected by the tragic events in Tunisia are our main priority and we
will continue to do all we can to support our customers as well as their family
and friends in resort at this exceptionally difficult time.

"We would like to extend our deepest sympathies to the friends and families of
those involved in this tragic event.

"The whole of Thomson and First Choice are deeply shocked and truly saddened by
the events and we are grateful to our staff on the ground and in the air and the
emergency services who are working hard in an incredibly challenging
environment."

A man from Bury who finally arrived back in Manchester on Saturday night
contacted the MEN from Tunisia, highly critical of the lack of assistance from
Jet2 in Tunisia.

Tunisia hotel attack

"Contacted Jet2 but same thing, they are still holding meetings but other people
in our resort have already left, we are being left in the dark, (we have had)
more info from the media," he wrote in a correspondence.

"We have not been given any helpful updates from Jet2, just to wait, even our
holiday rep doesn't know what's going on ... (we are) being passed from pillar
to post."

Anyone with concerns about friends and families is asked to call 0800 0885372.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 4:13 PM GMT

Bomber behind terror attack on Shia mosque that killed 27 is identified as Saudi
citizen who flew to Kuwait just hours before the attack

BYLINE: IMOGEN CALDERWOOD FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1358 words



     ·    Kuwaiti authorities have named bomber behind mosque attack in Kuwait
          City
     ·    Fahad Suleiman Abdulmohsen al-Gabbaa, early 20s, killed 27 in the
          blast
     ·    Authorities have arrested the 'illegal' driver and owner of the car
     ·    More than 2,000 worshippers were inside the mosque for midday prayers


The suicide bomber who blew himself up at a packed Shiite mosque in Kuwait after
midday prayers on Friday, killing 27 people, has been named by Kuwaiti
authorities.

The man has been identified as a Saudi citizen, named Fahad Suleiman Abdulmohsen
al-Gabbaa, who flew into the Gulf nation just hours before the attack in Kuwait
City.

He is reported to have been born in 1992, making him just 22 or 23 years old.

The bomber arrived at Kuwait International Airport, at dawn on the morning of
the attack, just hours before he detonated explosives in the packed prayer room.

More than 2,000 worshippers were standing shoulder-to-shoulder in group prayer
at the Al-Imam al-Sadeq mosque, observing the Islamic holy month of Ramadan,
when the blast tore through the building.

The ministry has arrested several suspects, including a Kuwaiti, in connection
with the attack, which also wounded 227 people.

A mugshot has also been released of the man believed to have been the driver of
the Japanese-made car that took the bomber to the mosque, who has been detained.



The man, Abdul-Rahman Sabah Aiden, 25, is said to be a member of Kuwait's
'bidoon' community, made up of around 110,000 descendants of desert nomads and
others considered stateless by the government, which refers to them as
'illegal'.

The community has long claimed the government deprives them of citizenship and
rights.

He was found hiding in one of the houses in the al-Riqqa residential area, in
the southern al-Ahmadi governorate.

The owner of the house, who has been identified as a supporter of extremist
Islamic ideologies, has also been detained.

The owner of the car, Jarrah Nimr Mejbil Ghazi, 27, who is also listed as a
stateless person, has also been detained.

The government-linked Al-Jarida newspaper reported that at least seven suspects
had been detained in connection with the attack.

'The interior ministry will continue its efforts to uncover the circumstances of
this explosion,' said interior ministry spokesman Adel Hashash.

The ISIS-affiliated group in Saudi Arabia, calling itself Najd Province, has
previously identified its militant Abu Suleiman al-Muwahhid as the man who
carried out the suicide bombing, using the name that Fahad Suleiman Abdulmohsen
al-Gabbaa chose to be known as within the extremist group.

CCTV footage has emerged of the bomber arriving outside the mosque in a white
car. He calmly gets out of the car, walks slowly up the steps and inside the
mosque.

Dressed in a white dishdasha and matching kheffiyah in order not to raise
suspicion, the bomber heads towards the prayer room.

His white thobe slightly bulging at the sides due to the explosive vest
concealed underneath his clothes.

He was seen walking in to the back of the mosque during prayers, before standing
among his victims and blowing himself up.

The group said the mosque was targeted because they believe it was spreading
Shiite teachings among Sunni Muslims.

ISIS, a radical Sunni Muslim group, considers Shiites to be heretics.

Local media said 18 of those killed were Kuwaitis, three Iranians, two Indians,
one each from Pakistan and Saudi Arabia and one bidoon.

Khalil al-Salih, a Kuwaiti MP said he saw the bomber enter the building.

A loud explosion was heard before parts of the ceiling began collapsing.

'He walked into the prayer hall during sujood (kneeling in prayer), he looked...
in his 20s, I saw him with my own eyes,' he said.

The group said the mosque was targeted because they believe it was spreading
Shiite teachings among Sunni Muslims.  ISIS, a radical Sunni Muslim group,
considers Shiites to be heretics.

Kuwait's health minister said that 27 people had been killed and a further 227
worshippers were badly injured in the horrific attack.

SUNNIS AND SHIITES IN KUWAIT

Officials said the bombing was clearly intended to force enmities between
majority Sunnis and minority Shiites and harm the comparatively harmonious ties
between the sects in Kuwait.

Between 15 and 30 per cent of Kuwait's 1.2million population is Shiite, with the
majority of the population being Sunni.

However members of both communities have so far lived side by side with very
little apparent friction.

The explosion was one of a trio of attacks on three different continents on
Friday linked to extremist Islamic groups, although there is no evidence that
the attacks were coordinated.

The other two attacks saw a gunman open fire on tourists at a beach in Tunisia,
killing 37, and in France a decapitated body was found after an attacker rammed
his car into a gas container, triggering an explosion.

This week ISIS promised 'paradise' and 'rewards in heaven' for those who carry
out Ramadan attacks.

The terrorist group appears to be carrying out its threat to step up attacks
throughout the holy month.

The group has said that its main target is the Arabian peninsula and in
particular Saudi Arabia, from where it plans to expel Shiite Muslims.

Najd Province claimed similar bombings against Shiite mosques in Saudi Arabia in
recent weeks.

Last month, the group claimed two deadly bombings against Shiite mosques in
Saudi Arabia, both of which took place during the weekly Friday prayers.

ISIS has also claimed several such attacks against Shiites in Yemen, the last of
which was just a week ago.

On June 17, it claimed five simultaneous bombings at Shiite mosques and offices
in Sanaa that killed at least 31 people and wounded dozens.

But Friday's attack is the first of its kind in oil-rich Kuwait.

One eyewitness said that he saw at least 10 dead bodies lying close together.

Police formed a cordon around the mosque's complex immediately after the
explosion, banning people from entering or gathering near the area.

Ambulances could be seen ferrying the wounded from the site.

Hassan al-Haddad, 21, said: 'We couldn't see anything, so we went straight to
the wounded and tried to carry them out. We left the dead'.

Abdullah al-Saffar, who was at the mosque, said the explosion took place just
after midday Friday prayers.

Friday midday prayers are typically the most crowded of the week, and attendance
increases during the holy Muslim month of Ramadan, which started last week.

Another witness, Ahmad al-Shawaf, said worshippers were standing shoulder to
shoulder in group prayer when the explosion struck near the door of the mosque,
behind some of the worshippers.

Al-Shawaf said the explosion took place near the end of a second prayer that is
traditional to Shiites and that follows the main midday Friday prayer.

He said witnesses standing behind him said they saw a man walk in, stand in the
back with other congregants and detonate his device.

Mohammed al-Faili, 32, said that his 70-year-old father was killed in the
explosion and two of his brothers were also wounded.

He said he was not at the mosque at the time of the explosion but was heading to
the morgue to identify his father's body.

Kuwaiti Justice, Religious Endowment and Islamic Affairs Minister Yacoub
al-Sanna described the attack as a 'terrorist and cowardly action which
threatens our nation and works at tearing apart the national unity.'

Al-Sanna told the official state agency KUNA that the government would take all
necessary measure to ensure protection of houses of worship. 'Kuwait was and
will remain the oasis of security and safety to all components of the Kuwaiti
society and sects,' he said.

Kuwaitis have reacted with fury on social media following the attack, blaming
those who fund Islamic groups fighting in Syria and Iraq.

'The wrath of God will come upon ISIS and everyone who is supporting them and
collecting funds for them under the cover of helping refugees and orphans,'
wrote Kuwaiti Hamad al-Baghli, on Twitter.

'Everyone who is funding and donating to ISIS should be charged with treason
because they want to burn Kuwait,' tweeted Asmaa Asiri.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 10:58 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Travel firms offer tourists option to cancel or change
their summer break;
Sun-seekers due to fly out in the next few days were urged to contact their tour
operator for their options

BYLINE: By Nigel Thompson

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 195 words


Travel firms are giving holidaymakers who booked for Tunisia the chance to
cancel or change their summer break.

And sun-seekers due to fly out in the next few days were urged to contact their
tour operator for their options.

The call came from travel association Abta as extra planes began flying back
holidaymakers desperate to get home after Friday's terrorist attack.

Abta said: "The first priority is the welfare of holidaymakers in the hotels
affected by this terrible incident."

Inside the Rui Imperial Mahaba Hotel, Port El Kantaoui near Sousse, Tunisia

It added: "Holidaymakers elsewhere in Tunisia are advised to contact their tour
operator and follow instructions issued by local authorities.

"Many of our members who have operations in Tunisia are offering customers the
option to amend or cancel their bookings."

It said it was liaising with the ­Tunisian ­authorities and the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office and would keep giving updated advice.

Among the first to arrive home this afternoon were honeymooners Helen and Darren
Tait, who were joyfully greeted by daughter Brooklyn after they touched down at
Glasgow.

Flowers lay on Tunisian beach for victims of massacre

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 10:41 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Defiant Brits vow to stand by hotel after bloodbath on
the beach;
The five-star Riu Imperial Marhaba was open for business despite bullet holes
which riddled the indoor pool where three people are believed to have died

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1209 words


Tunisian terror attack: Rui Imperial Mahaba Hotel lies deserted 2 days after
attack

Defiant Britons have vowed to stand by Tunisia as the hotel where 37 people were
massacred opened its doors for the first time since the atrocity.

The five-star Riu Imperial Marhaba was open for business despite bullet holes
which riddled the indoor pool where three people are believed to have died and
broken windows from the indiscriminate Kalashnikov fire of maniac IS gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui.

It has emerged 600 Scotland Yard officers are investigating the massacre, with a
team at the Marhaba helping local officers.

Tunisian cops are now convinced that Rezgui, 23, did not act alone - a theory
which is now being backed by some of the guests at the hotel.

The Mirror gained access to the Marhaba as it opened for the first time amid
huge security for a state visit by Tunisian Government officials - and British
investigators.

Incredibly, one elderly British couple from Cambridgeshire sat alone by the
deserted poolside - and told how they were going to carry on with their holiday
despite coming within yards of the gunman as he shot three people just yards
from where they sunbathed.

David, 75, and Jean had just arrived at the hotel and were enjoying their first
morning by the pool when Rezgui began his rampage.

David said: "I heard what I thought were fireworks and then suddenly I realised
he was on the steps and he was firing.

"There were three people lying flat beside him and I assume they were
casualties.

"One fell by the pool and I knew he had been shot and at that stage, the gunman
was just about 30 metres away from me.

"He was just spraying bullets all around, and I am not particularly proud of
this but I ran as fast as I could.

Inside the Rui Imperial Mahaba Hotel, Port El Kantaoui near Sousse, Tunisia

"You remember how to run in a situation like that, even when you are 75."

He found his wife Jean nearby and they ended up locked inside a changing room by
the indoor pool as Rezgui shot and killed one victim after another outside.

Jean, a grandmother-of-three, said many fellow guests were convinced there was
another gunman who came into the hotel reception, at the height of the mayhem.

"I spoke with guests afterwards, and they thought another man came in and was
firing as the main gunman entered.

"It is hard to know, but there appeared to be more than one person firing.

"If he had found us he would have just let rip, opened fire, we would all have
been dead."

David, of March, Cambs., said the gunman was believed to have shot three people
by the indoor pool, and went up stairs to the second floor where he shot a
female hotel staff member in the leg as she 'got in the way' when he took aim at
a guest.

The retired businessman added: "We are not being brave staying on, because we
were scared witless.

"I have seen a Red Cross counsellor and he has advised me to cut down on the
whisky - it was helping me sleep.

"We were so lucky - we had just arrived on Friday, and had gone into the spa
together to have a look around when the gunman came up past the pool.

"We were locked in the changing rooms for over an hour, with around 30 other
people from all over the world, and we were convinced he was going to come in.

"You could hear the automatic fire and the hand grenades going off outside.

"People had hypertension, people were crying, and they kept saying 'be quiet' in
case the gunman heard us.

"We felt so isolated because we did not have a clue what was happening.

"The staff were marvellous here, and there was a big guy who kept going out to
see what was going on, he was so brave.

"There was a woman who was screaming, crying, it was so shocking, she was
absolutely terrified.

"We were all traumatised, but we just feel so sorry for the people who work
here. We can go home - they can't.

"We have been on holiday to Tunisia ten times, we love the place and the people,
and we did not want the terrorists to win.

"When we arrived there were hundreds by the pool, now there is hardly anyone
left.

"But we have decided to stay on."

The Mirror agreed not to give their full names as they are in fear of reprisals.

Fellow Brits Fred Hinley, 74, and his wife Alice, 72, are also staying at the
Belle Vue hotel next door - even as thousands of fellow holidaymakers from the
UK head home.

Wearing an England hat on the beach where the massacre took place, he said: "I
feel as if the terrorists would have won if we had gone back.

"This must be the safest spot in Tunisia now. We spoke with our family and my
son Stephen said 'keep calm Dad, don't panic'."

Alice, a great grandma with nine grandchildren, added: "The Tunisian staff were
in tears, I feel so sorry for them. Our cleaner said she is the only one in her
family with a job.

"We saw the gunman, he was shooting outside and we were on our balcony. He fell
when he was hit by the man throwing tiles miss at him from the roof."

Fellow Belle Vue guests Ashley Brocklesby-Gell, 49, and his wife Avis, 54, from
Retford, Nottinghamshire, will also defy the terrorists.

He said: "They win if we go home. Everybody is worried about us, but we think
here is probably the safest place in Tunisia at the moment."

His wife added: "We're not leaving, but plenty of others want to. The lobby of
our hotel was full of people with suitcases."

They were contacted via Facebook by the family of British victims Scott Chaukley
and Sue Davey on Saturday, and helped them to find out what had happened to them
by going to authorities in Sousse.

They laid flowers in their memory at the spot where they died.

But others were desperate to get home.

Kaylee Brigden, 26, and her mum Tracy Raffermati, 55, of Welwyn Garden City,
have been trying to arrange a flight Tracy's children Luca, four, and Laerana,
two.

Full-time mum Kaylee said: "I think we should take priority.

"We had to lock ourselves in the room when it started with another family who
did not have their room key, and barricaded the door to stop the gunman getting
in.

"My partner is beside himself with worry. We just want to be home."

They hoped to leave tonight.

Ian and Jane Fairhurst, from Kendal in the Lake District, blamed the Foreign
Office for not doing enough.

Jane, 50, an Asda cashier, said: "First we were told we were going, and we
packed up and got ready, then we were told we weren't. Now we don't know when
we'll get out.

Her husband, 56, who works in care, said: "It's chaos. On Saturday, they told us
we could go home, then we were told there were no flights.

"No one can get through to the Foreign Office, and Thomsons had a rep aged 21
who was out of her depth.

"It's the Brits who have let us down, not the Tunisians. The Tunisians have been
fantastic."

Around 10,000 Brits will have left Tunisia in mass evacuation by Tuesday,
however.

Around 2,500 took off in specially chartered flights on Saturday, and another
2,500 more people were heading back today, as part of holiday firms' efforts to
get those on holiday at the beach resort home as soon as possible.

Thomson and First Choice said expatriated 1,000 of its customers. There are
still 5,400 remaining.

There are around 20,000 Brits still on Abta holidays in Tunisia.

Holidaymakers elsewhere in the country were advised to contact their tour
operator and follow any instructions issued by local authorities.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 10:35 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: At least 30 Brits murdered in the massacre on the beach;

So far 15 British and Irish victims of vile jihadi gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, 24,
had been confirmed dead

BYLINE: By Jason Beattie

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1004 words


Tunisia terror attack: scenes of chaos as emergency services transport injured
from beach to hospital

The number of Brits murdered in the Tunisia beach massacre will reach at least
30 and could rise further, Government sources have warned.

So far 15 British and Irish victims of vile jihadi gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, 24,
had been confirmed dead.

Sources said the overall total, currently 38, will exceed 40.

There has been a delay in identifying bodies due to the local coroner who was
insisting on seeing victims' medical records before confirming their
identification.

And Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said the delay was because many were
"dressed for the beach, not carrying ID physically on them".

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

He added: "There are a significant number of victims who have not been
positively identified at this time and it is highly likely that a significant
proportion of them will be British."

Tunisia Terror attacks: 15 Brits feared dead in Sousse shooting

Mr Hammond added that it was "extraordinarily difficult" to predict where the
next attack will happen and was no more likely to be in Tunisia than in a
European city.

"Our agencies have been very frank about this over a long period of time now,
they cannot guarantee that we will be safe from this kind of self-radicalising
lone-wolf attack.

"It is the most difficult type of attack to detect and predict and therefore the
most difficult kind to protect against."

Home Secretary Theresa May said the British deaths figure was expected to rise
as more information comes out.

Three Irish people are also among the dead.

Speaking after chairing a meeting of the Government's emergency cobra committee
this morning, Home Secretary Theresa May said: "The figure for the number of
confirmed dead remains at 15, but we should expect that that figure is going to
rise.

Theresa May says there is no no evidence to suggest that Tunisia attacks were
targeted solely on British tourists

"The process is a complex one. And it is of course imperative that we get it
absolutely right for families, and that can sometimes take time."

The Queen sent her condolences to victims of the Tunisian massacre, saying the
brutal attack had left her and the Duke of Edinburgh "shocked".

The monarch also sent her "deepest sympathy" to those injured in Friday's brutal
slaughter in Sousse which left at least 15 Britons dead.

As tributes were paid to the victims by family and friends, Buckingham Palace
released a statement from the Queen saying: "Prince Philip and I were shocked to
learn of the attack on British tourists in Tunisia on Friday.

Tunisian terror attack survivor: 'Blood from victims turned sand colour of
terracotta'

"We send our sincere condolences to the families of those who were killed and
our deepest sympathy to the people who are still fighting for their lives in
hospital, and those who have been seriously injured.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with those of all countries who have been affected
by this terrible event."

Thousands of tourists have arrived back in the UK from Tunisia in the wake of
Friday's beach massacre in the country.

Holiday firms have scrambled extra flights on top of scheduled services for
people seeking to flee back to Britain since the slaughter in Sousse. Flights to
the country have also been cancelled.

Thomas Cook said 1,100 people who cut short their stay in the North African
country were among 3,600 who have flown back since the attack.

It laid on two extra flights on Saturday and another today.

More than 600 British anti-terror detectives have been drafted in to gather
evidence following Friday's attack.

Nearly 400 have been stationed at airports to inrterview returning
holidaymakers.

The move came as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office warned further terror
attacks in the north African country was possible.

The FCO on its website urged British holidaymakers to keep in touch with tour
operators and follow any advice from Tunisian security authorities.

On its website it advises most people visiting areas around Tunis and the coast
to follow its advice but said Britons should not travel to border areas to Libya
and some parts connected to Algeria.

It has also emerged that an RAF mercy mission may evacuate one of the shot
Brits.

Kirsty Murray, 25, was visited in hospital in Sousse by an RAF medic on
Saturday, and it is understood she is likely to be flown home when arrangements
can be put in place.

The daughter of a couple missing in Tunisia has told how more than 20 phone
calls to the Foreign Office have gone unanswered.

Devastated Holly Graham is desperately searching for information on the
whereabouts of her parents Billy and Lisa who she has not heard from since
before the attack on Friday.

The 29-year-old has criticised the Foreign Office for the lack of information
they're supplying.

She revealed that her and her friends had made more than 20 different calls to a
special hotline set up for victim's families but hadn't received a single reply.

Speaking from the family home home in Bankfoot, Perthshire, she said: "We have
not been called back or acknowledged.

"I would have thought they would at least have found someone who could contact
me direct and explain what they might do to help.

"In the meantime I am left with this terrible wait for information which is very
hard to bear.

"I have not spoken to my Mum or Dad since Thursday night. They had been in
contact every day since they got there."

She also criticised holiday firm Thomson who dad Billy, 51, had booked the two
week break through as a 50th birthday present for wife Lisa.

The pair arrived at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel resort - the scene of the
massacre - on June 17 and are due to come home on Wednesday.

Holly added: "Thomson are like they're just reading off a piece of paper. I've
had friends phoning on my behalf of me because you can imagine I'm a little bit
of an emotional wreck at the moment.

"They said the same - it's like they're just reading off a piece of paper that
they've been given to tell people."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 10:24 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Blood of victims 'stained beach colour of terracotta'
says British survivor;
Cal Sarwar flew back to Glasgow today after being in Sousse, where he was
researching a book on Islamic terrorism in Africa

BYLINE: By Katrine Bussey

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 406 words


A British survivor of the Tunisia gun attack has told how blood from the victims
of the massacre turned the sand to the colour of terracotta.

Cal Sarwar flew back to Glasgow today after being in Sousse, where he was
researching a book on Islamic terrorism in Africa.

The 50-year-old journalist from Falkirk had been staying in a neighbouring hotel
when student Seifeddine Rezgui targeted western tourists on the beach area of
the RIU Imperial Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue.

Mr Sarwar had been swimming in a pool just metres away from the scene, when he
thought he heard fireworks.

But when he came up from under the water, he saw "pandemonium" with panicked
holidaymakers running past.

READ: For latest updates on the Tunisia attack follow our live blog:

He recalled: "I was in the pool, I wasn't on the beach, the pool is about 25
metres from the beach.

"I swim with earplugs in, so I was swimming away and I put my head up and saw
people running past. The gunman had already run past by the time I put my head
up out of the water.

"That was it, people screaming, pandemonium, chaos."

He added: "I was there writing my second book and it's ironic that this was
happening."

Mr Sarwar said: "I heard something, I heard fireworks, from what I was told the
guy had a Kalashnikov, he had reloaded several times.

"He went past me, I was told, I didn't see him.

"We went to the beach and it was a terracotta colour, the blood had mixed with
the sand, it was just terracotta everywhere, like somebody had been painting.
People were dragging people out of the water, it was quite a horrible scene

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

"When you see something like that you just don't expect it. I'm shocked and I
will be for a long time."

He said there had been a heightened security presence in the area in the days
before the attack, but said it had been scaled back just the day before

"Four days before the attack the whole atmosphere on the streets of Tunisia
changed," Mr Sarwar said.

"Instead of taxis taking you right to your hotel doors they would drop you off
at the gates, there were police blocks at the gates. But that security presence
disappeared on Thursday afternoon, on Thursday afternoon we were allowed once
again to take our taxis and get dropped off at the hotels again."

He added: "They were preparing for something, but I don't think they expected it
to come from the water."

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 10:04 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Slaughter of the innocents as ordinary Brits killed while
they enjoyed holiday;
The victims of the Tunisia hotel massacre were ordinary people enjoying a
sunshine holiday when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire

BYLINE: By mirror

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1086 words


They were ordinary people enjoying their holidays - grandfathers, mothers, sons
and lovers.

They were nurses, retired, soldiers, care home assitants and shop workers.

But their lives were destroyed for ever when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui produced a
kalashnikov from inside a parasol and murdered 38 people in cold blood.

Photographer Carly Lovett, 24, died holding her fiance's hand after selflessly
using herself as a human shield, witnesses have said.

Carly and Liam Moore, both 24, ran in from the beach when crazed Rezgui opened
fire.

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

They raced down a staff corridor behind the reception desk and tried to hide
with others before the killer tossed a grenade in after them.

One witness said: "Carly took the full force of the grenade because she was in
front.

"Liam was with her the whole time, doing whatever he could. He tried to give her
CPR but she died there next to him.

"The paramedics made him leave the corridor so they could get to Carly. He was
in the lobby covered in blood so people thought he was injured but it wasn't his
blood.

"He was so traumatised."

The couple, childhood sweethearts who got engaged last Christmas, had only
arrived at the resort on Wednesday.

Liam is back at home being comforted by his parents. Carly was a photographer
for a website based near her home in Gainborough, Lincs.

Tragic Owen Richards, 16, saw three generations of his family were wiped out as
Rezgui strafed the sands with bullets.

Adrian Evans, 49, a manager for Sandwell Council in the West Midlands, died
alongside his 19-year-old nephew Joel, a university student and talented
football referee.

Joel's grandad Charles 'Patrick' Evans, 78, also died, but Owen, who lived with
mum Suzy, 46, survived.

Care home worker Trudy Jones, 52, has been named as the latest British victim of
the Tunisia terrorist attack.

Trudy, described as 'an absolute angel' was on a one-week holiday and had been
due to fly home today so she could return to work at the Highfields Nursing home
in Cefn Fforest on Tuesday.

Trudy, of Blackwood, near Caerphilly, is understood to have been with her
partner on the beach in Sousse when the gunman open fire on Friday.

The mother of a Premier League soccer star's girlfriend was among the victims of
the Tunisia beach massacre.

Mum-of-three Suzanne Davey, 43, and her partner Scott Chalkley, 42, were killed
in the gunfire while on a holiday to celebrate buying their first home together.

Suzanne's daughter Chloe Fulford, 24, lives with Leicester City winger Marc
Albrighton in Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands.

Suzanne lived in Tamworth, Staffs, and worked as a manager in the complaints
department for Severn Trent Water.

Her son Conor Fulford , 23, who works as a football coach in Massachusetts, USA,
tweeted: "Love you always Mom, I've got my teddy bear you got me tonight, Rest
easy xxxx"

Leicester City Football Club issued a statement offering support to winger Marc
Albrighton and his partner Chloe, who is Sue's eldest daughter.

The Premier League club said: "Leicester City Football Club offers its sincerest
condolences to Marc Albrighton, his partner Chloe and their family after
learning of the deaths of Chloe's mother, Sue, and her partner, Scott, during
Friday's attacks in Tunisia.

Conor Fulford

"They are all in our thoughts and prayers."

Suzanne and Scott, from Chaddesden, Derby, had been together for two years.

Speaking about dad Scott, his son Ross Naylor, 23, said: "He is a great guy.
He's just a normal, typical bloke.

"He's a fun loving guy. Even though he is 20 years older than me, he's like a
mate - that's how it is. He's like your best mate."

Claire Windass, 54, who is believed to have worked for North Lincolnshire
Council, was on the beach when she was murdered.

Her husband Jim, who was sitting next to her, miraculously escaped unhurt.

The couple, from Bransholme in Humberside had arrived at the resort last Sunday
for a weeks holiday and were due back home today.

Speaking outside the family home, Mrs Windass' step-son, Steve Windass, 29,
said: "I was at work at the time when a colleague said it was in Tunisia.

"I started to look at the TV and the more I thought about it, the more I
realised that was where it was."

Police have also confirmed they are supporting the family of a woman from
Tyneside, believed to be Lisa Burbidge, who was killed in the terrorist attack.

The grandmother was in her 60s and lived in Whickham, Gateshead.

Her family paid a moving tribute to her.

Lisa, of Whickham, Gateshead, died in the massacre during a holiday in Sousse.
She was in her 60's.

Her family said: "We are devastated with the tragic loss of the most beautiful,
amazing, caring and gentle person in our lives.

We have been left with a massive hole in our hearts.

"She leaves behind many family members including four fantastic grandchildren
who were her world and will miss her tremendously.

"We would like to thank everyone for their kind words and condolences but now
would ask that we are left to grieve privately to come to terms with our sad
loss."

Another devoted couple killed in the Tunisia shooting had only gone on holiday
on a spur-of-the-moment last-minute deal.

Former engineer Jim McQuire, 66, and his wife Ann, 63, were due to fly back into
Glasgow early on Monday to attend the Queen's Holyrood Garden Party.

They were invited after a lifetime of commitment to the Church of Scotland and
Jim's many years as a Boys' Brigade captain.

Pal Marjory Williamson said: "They were just enjoying life so much.

"The holiday was booked just a week in advance and they said they loved having
the freedom to do that now that Jim is retired."

But their last-minute holiday ended in tragedy when they were shot on the beach
- with Ann dying on the spot and Jim passing away in hospital a short time
later.

The couple's only child Stuart, 32, had married his wife Nicola in October.

The distraught widow of victim Bruce Wilkinson arrived back at the couple's
terraced home in Goole, East Yorks.

Rita Wilkinson, 71, should have returned to the UK on Monday with her husband, a
72-years-old retired ambulance driver.

But Mr Wilkinson, a former soldier was killed in the beach attack.

Mrs Wilkinson who has two daughters, Sharron and Julie, is being comforted by
her family.

The family said: "We are devastated at the loss of Bruce, who was a devoted
husband, father and grandfather.

"Bruce was a loving family man, and in his working life worked to support the
care of others."

Tunisian terror attack survivor: 'Blood from victims turned sand colour of
terracotta'

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 9:34 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Gunman's phone recovered from the sea could uncover ISIS
connections;
Rezgui was seen relaxing on the beach in the popular resort of Sousse before he
showered innocent tourists with bullets

BYLINE: By Karen Rockett

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 320 words


This is the mobile phone believed to belong to Tunisia terror attack gunman,
Seifeddine Rezgui.

ISIS has claimed responsibility for the massacre, which killed 38 people, many
of them British.

Rezgui was seen relaxing on the beach in the popular resort of Sousse before he
showered innocent tourists with bullets.

At least 15 of the victims are believed to be British.

His mobile phone was recovered from the sea by police divers and may still
provide information about the killer and his ISIS connections.

Tunisia Terror attacks: 15 Brits feared dead in Sousse shooting

Seifeddine Rezgui was spotted strolling along the sea shore and is likely to
have deliberately tossed the mobile into the water before he began his murderous
rampage knowing he would never use it again.

Eye-witnesses described seeing Rezgui arrive on the beach on either a small boat
or a jet ski.

He calmly strolled along the beach with his gun hidden in a parasol and chatted
with people on the beach.

Chilling footage has also emerged of him sprinting along the beach, holding his
weapon just moments after carrying out his bloody rampage.

Tourists desperately tried to flee the gunfire and screamed at him as he went on
his hour long rampage through the Marbaha Imperial Hotel before he was shot
dead.

The Home Secretary, Theresa May, chaired a meeting of the COBRA emergency
committee and said a British medical liaison team has been sent to the resort of
Sousse.

But bodies are taking longer than usual to identify because few victims were
carrying passports, credit cards, drivers' licences or phones.

Friday's attack was the worst terrorist massacre of Brits since 7/7, and came
less than two weeks before the London bombings' 10th anniversary.

There is no sign yet that the Tunisia victims were targeted for being British,
but the resort is a popular westerners' destination used by Thomas Cook.

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 8:54 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Gunman's father says he is 'ashamed' of his son's
actions;
Hakim Rezgui said that when he first heard the news he could not "comprehend" it
and that he was "sorry" for all the lives that had been lost

BYLINE: By Nina Massey

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 465 words


The father of the Tunisia terror attack gunman has said he is 'ashamed' of his
son's actions.

Hakim Rezgui said that when he first heard the news he could not "comprehend" it
and that he was "sorry" for all the lives that had been lost.

Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, shot dead western tourists on the beach in Sousse at the
RIU Imperial Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue - including at least 15 Britons.

Mr Rezgui said: "My god, I am so shocked. I don't know who has contacted him,
influenced him or who has put these ideas in his head. He has new friends who
got him into this."

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

He added: "My son had no problem with anyone. But I don't know who has changed
his mind, influenced him and who has warped his mind."

READ: For latest updates follow our live blog here:

Mr Rezgui continued: "I wish there had been no victims, no one hurt. I wish it
had never happened. Because when I see the victims I think it could have been my
own family.

"I had no idea and I am really sorry. I am upset to see those victims. I feel
the loss of the families so strongly. I feel like I have died along with the
victims.

"I am so ashamed for me, for his mother, for all our family."Enjoying the midday
sun as they holidayed on the African coast, they are believed to have been
targeted because they were from the UK.

A total of 12 British victims have been named so far - and there have been
warnings that the final British death toll could reach as high as 23.

Tunisia terror attack: scenes of chaos as emergency services transport injured
from beach to hospital

Home Secretary Theresa May said the process of identifying victims will 'take
time'.

She said: "The process of identifying individuals who have been affected and the
deceased is a complex one.

"It is imperative that we get it absolutely right for the families, and that can
sometimes take time."Describing the attack as a "catastrophe", Mr Rezgui
explained that he rarely saw his son who had made new friends and spent all his
time at university or at the coffee shop.

Tunisian terror attack survivor: 'Blood from victims turned sand colour of
terracotta'

Adding that he had no idea of the plans Seifeddine was making, Mr Rezgui said:
"My son lost his life and he has lost our lives too. He has lost his life, his
studies, his future and he's ended our lives too."

The gunman's aunt, Zara Rezgui, described him as a "blank page", but a kind,
calm, "normal boy" who spent most of the time alone.

She said: "He was a blank page, he didn't tell us anything about what he was
planning.

"The first time we knew about it was when we saw it on the news.

"We are shocked. God bless him. God is punishing us.

"His mother and father brought him up to be a good boy, work hard and get a good
job. He never spoke about his secret."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 8:44 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attacks: 'Expect death toll from massacre to rise,' Government
warns;
At least fifteen Britons are known to have been killed in Friday's attack in the
resort of Sousse - with 12 named so far

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 254 words


The Government has warned that the British death toll from the Tunisia gun
attack is expected to rise.

At least fifteen Britons are known to have been killed in Friday's attack in the
resort of Sousse.

A total of 12 British victims have been named so far.

But, speaking after chairing a meeting of the Government's emergency cobra
committee this morning, Home Secretary Theresa May said: "The figure for the
number of confirmed dead remains at 15, but we should expect that that figure is
going to rise.

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims  "The process is a complex one. And
it is of course imperative that we get it absolutely right for families, and
that can sometimes take time."

Mr Hammond said there had been delays in identifying victims because many were
"dressed for the beach, not carrying ID physically on them''.

He added: "There are a significant number of victims who have not been
positively identified at this time and it is highly likely that a significant
proportion of them will be British.''

Mr Hammond said it was "extraordinarily difficult'' to predict where the next
attack will happen and was no more likely to be in Tunisia than in a European
city.

"Our agencies have been very frank about this over a long period of time now,
they cannot guarantee that we will be safe from this kind of self-radicalising
lone-wolf attack.

"It is the most difficult type of attack to detect and predict and therefore the
most difficult kind to protect against.''

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 7:25 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: British teenage survivor says 'I can't get sound of gun
fire out of my head';
Abbie Douglas, 19, is finally back home after returning on a special flight from
Sousse but says she is still in shock

BYLINE: By Craig Thompson

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 419 words


A teenager who narrowly escaped the Tunisian terror shootings today said she
"can't get the gun fire out of my head" as she relived the beach massacre.

Abbie Douglas, 19, from Wallsend, North Tyneside, is finally back home after
returning on a special flight from Sousse.

Still clearly in shock, she was reunited with her family today.

Abbie said: "Now that I'm home, it's only starting to sink in what's happened. I
just keep hearing the gunshots going off again and again.

"When I was there I could deal with it, but now I'm back home it just keeps
coming into my head over and over.

"People kept saying, 'We understand how you feel,' but how could they? How many
people have been through this kind of thing before?"

Abbie and boyfriend Sam Younganan, 22, only arrived in the resort last Wednesday
and it was her first foreign holiday without her parents. Less than 48 hours
later, gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire, killing at least 15 Britons, the
Newcastle Chronicle reports.

The pair were sunbathing beside the pool at the Soviva Resort, opposite Hotel
Riu Imperial Marhaba in the Port El Kantaoui neighbourhood, when they heard the
shots.

Abbie, who works in Sainsbury's in Heaton, Newcastle, took refuge in the hotel
and along with a group of fellow tourists, she and Sam blockaded themselves in.

For the latest news on the Tunisia attack click here

The pair flew back to the UK on Saturday night, arriving at Leeds Bradford
Airport at 2am on Sunday where they were met by Sam's dad who drove them back up
to Newcastle.

Abbie said she is still coming to terms with the news.

She added: "I didn't know a woman from Gateshead had died, that's terrible.

"I think everything that's happened will take a while to sink in to be honest.

"I didn't get to be until after 4.30am but haven't had much sleep. I just want
to have a shower and to see my mum."

Tour operators, including Thomson, Thomas Cook and easyJet have been scheduling
emergency flights to help evacuate tourists caught up in the nightmare.

"It has been a long few days," said Abbie who had been due to stay in Tunisia
for two weeks.

"I have a bit of time off still, so I'm just going to try and relax as much as I
can.

"I want to read all the stuff about what's happened, but at the same time I
don't. It's still all very strange."

Tributes have been paid across the world to the victims of the beach attack
which left 38 dead and has been described as the most significant terrorist
attack on British people since 52 were killed in the 7 July 2005 London
bombings.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 7:02 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Gunman filmed sprinting along beach holding weapon
moments after carrying out bloody massacre;
Seifeddine Rezgui runs along the shoreline in the resort of Sousse leaving a
seen of carnage in his wake - and at least 15 British dead

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 223 words


This footage shows the Tunisia massacre gunman running along the beach after
carrying out his deadly attack.

At least 15 British tourists were killed after Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire
when he arrived on the shore at the resort of Sousse at around 11.55am.

He murdered dozens of innocent tourists - in a horrifying gun and grenade
rampage which claimed the lives of 39 people.

Eye-witnesses described seeing Rezgui arrive on the beach on either a small boat
or a jet ski.

He calmly strolled along the beach with his gun hidden in a parasol and chatted
with people on the beach.

READ: Follow our latest updates here:

In this video holidaymakers are seen running away as Tunisia locals throw
masonry onto his head from the roofs of surrounding buildings to slow his
escape.

Rezgui can be seen running with his gun in hand while onlookers scream at him.

He sprints up an alley heading towards the hotel where he continued his attack.

As he sprints towards the hotels a voice can be heard shouting: "That's him on
the beach it's him", they shout.

"The gun is in his hand...take him out...hit him with a stone...it's him...he is
coming."

Rezgui went on an hour-long rampage through the nearby Marbaha Imperial hotel,
before he was shot dead.

A phone believed to belong to the gunman is reported to have been retrieved from
the sea by divers.

Tunisia timeline

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 6:00 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: The Queen sends 'deepest sympathies' to victims of
massacre;
Queen saying: "Prince Philip and I were shocked to learn of the attack on
British tourists in Tunisia on Friday.

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 234 words


The Queen has sent her condolences to the families of those killed in the
Tunisian beach massacre, saying the brutal attack had left her and the Duke of
Edinburgh "shocked".

The monarch also sent her "deepest sympathy" to those injured in Friday's brutal
slaughter in Sousse which left at least 15 Britons dead.

As tributes were paid to the victims by family and friends, Buckingham Palace
released a statement from the Queen saying: "Prince Philip and I were shocked to
learn of the attack on British tourists in Tunisia on Friday.

"We send our sincere condolences to the families of those who were killed and
our deepest sympathy to the people who are still fighting for their lives in
hospital, and those who have been seriously injured.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with those of all countries who have been affected
by this terrible event."

Home Secretary Theresa May said the British deaths figure was expected to rise
as more information comes out. Three Irish people are also among the dead.

The killing spree by Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui targeted
western tourists on the beach at the RIU Imperial Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue
and only ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his body.

Investigators have revealed they are looking for at least one more accomplice,
with an Interior Ministry spokesman telling the Associated Press they are sure
that Rezgui had help.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 4:24 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Brits and Tunisians unite as powerful video shows
mourners joining hands in candlelit tribute;
Holidaymaker Jenny Weldon, from Middlesbrough, filmed the moving candelit vigil
at her hotel complex in Sousse, which was rocked by the terror attack

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 217 words


British tourists and Tunisian residents have united in remembering the victims
of Friday's beach massacre.

A tribute took place last night at a hotel complex near the scene of the terror
attack as British holidaymakers formed a human circle and performed a moving
tribute.

Meanwhile, Brits and Tunisian locals came together on the beach where the
tragedy unfolded to hold a candlelit vigil in support of the victims and to
stand against the violence which took place.

Read more: Live updates following Tunisian beach massacre

Holidaymaker Jenny Weldon, from Middlesbrough, filmed the powerful scenes at the
hotel as mourners formed a circle around the complex as mourners sang to Michael
Jackson's 'Heal the World'.

Jenny said: "We wanted to pay our respects and everything has been very quiet
and settled in memory of those who lost their lives."

Tourists and Tunisians came together for a candlelit vigil as people held
posters saying "Peace" and "Sousse will never die".

Many Tunisians also unfurled British flags as a show of support to the victims
outside the Imperial Marhaba hotel, one of the two hotels targeted by killer
Seifeddine Rezgui.

One local resident said: "What happened (on Friday) does not represent Tunisia.
We are sorry for the families, the victims, they are our guests."

Tunisia timeline

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 2:17 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: British pensioner says £6 sun hat saved her life after
bullet narrowly missed forehead;
A bullet tore through Rita Williams' pink hat and the 76-year-old from south
Wales has said she feels lucky to be alive

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 323 words


A British pensioner believes her £6 sun hat saved her life after she narrowly
avoided being hit by a bullet from Tunisia terror gunman Seifeddine Rezgui.

Rita Williams, 76, was on holiday with husband Ken when the shooter started
opening fire at Western tourists.

Rita, from Maesteg, south Wales, was knocked to the ground as a bullet tore
through her pink sun hat but she later discovered she was uninjured and the shot
had narrowly missed her forehead.

Read more: Live updates following Tunisian beach massacre

.

She told The Sun on Sunday: "If I didn't have the hat on I think the bullet
would have hit me. The bullet literally skirted past my skull.

"I've been so lucky, I'm still shaking. It was all so frightening."

Husband Ken added: "I bought the hat this week for about six quid and it's saved
her life. It makes you appreciate life. I came so close to a terrible
situation."

Meanwhile, a hero dad who took three bullets to protect his fiancée during the
Tunisian beach massacre gives a thumbs up and a brave smile from his UK hospital
bed, after returning home from his holiday horror.

Gas engineer Mathew James is in a "stable and comfortable condition" after
returning to Britain from Tunisia.

The 30-year-old used his body as a human shield to protect Saera Wilson from
being killed by a terrorist gunman during Friday's shocking massacre.

In a statement this morning his family said: "Mathew is currently in a stable
and comfortable condition - and he and his fiancée Saera are doing well, and are
happy to be back in the UK.

"They wish to thank all of the medical teams in both Tunisia and the UK for all
of their professional assistance, care and support.

"They would also like to thank everyone involved in ensuring their safe return
to the UK and the support shown by family, friends and the public."

Up to 23 Brits are believed to have died in the shootings which a total of 39
people were killed.

Tunisia attack: The day after the attack

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 1:34 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: What we know about British victims of beach massacre;
A total of up to 23 Britons are believed to have died in the Tunisian beach
massacre - here's what we know about the tragic victims so far

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 1381 words


Among the 38 victims of the massacre in Tunisia on Friday, at least 15 were
British.

Enjoying the midday sun as they holidayed on the African coast, they are
believed to have been targeted because they were from the UK.

A total of 12 British victims have been named so far - and there have been
warnings that the final British death toll could reach as high as 23.

Home Secretary Theresa May said the process of identifying victims will 'take
time'.

She said: "The process of identifying individuals who have been affected and the
deceased is a complex one.

"It is imperative that we get it absolutely right for the families, and that can
sometimes take time."

Here are the fatalities who have been named so far:

Carly Lovett, 24

Gifted photographer Carly, 24, became separated from her fiancé Liam Moore
during the bloodbath on the beach and ran back to what she thought was the
safety of her hotel.

But she died when the lobby area was blown up shortly after the shootings.

Liam, 24, survived and called his parents Christopher and Helen to tell them he
was safe, promising to call back once he found Carly.

The two got engaged last Christmas after dating since they were 14.

They left the UK on Wednesday for a two week holiday in the resort of Sousse.

Adrian Evans, 49

Mr Evans worked as a manager for Sandwell Council in the West Midlands, based in
its gas services department.

He died alongside two members of his family - his dad Charles Evans and his
nephew. His other nephew Owen Richards survived the attack.

Mr Evans had worked for the council for 32 years, and was on his first day of a
holiday in Tunisia.

He was due to spend seven days in the African country before a week's stay in
France.

Charles 'Patrick' Evans, 78

Mr Evans lived with his wife Maureen in the West Midlands.

He was shot on the beach along with three members of his family.

Joel Richards, 19

Joel, a 19-year-old student at the University of Worcester was also a talented
referee "with the world at his feet."

The teenager's Facebook profile picture shows him standing on Wembley Way when
his beloved Walsall FC played there earlier this year.

In a statement, Birmingham County FA said: "Joel was an active member of the
Birmingham County FA youth council.

"A young talented referee with the world at his feet, he was highly thought of
and will be sadly missed." Sue Davey, 44

Ms Davey, from Tamworth, was on holiday with her partner Scott Chalkley at the
Imperial Hotel in Sousse.

Her son Conor Fulford, 23, begged for help to find his mum in the aftermath of
the gun attack.

But Conor later took to Twitter saying: "Hi Everyone, Sorry to tell you we lost
my mother Sue Davey tonight but i want to thank everybody that tried to help me
& my family ..."

Sue worked with Scott for Severn Trent Water.

She is reported to be the mother of Leicester City star Marc Albrighton's
partner has been confirmed as victim of the Tunisian gun massacre.

The family of Sue Davey, the mother of Marc's partner Chloe Fulford, has
confirmed on Facebook that she has died in the atrocity.

The family of Ms Davey's partner Scott Chalkley, also confirmed that he had also
died in the shooting.

Both families launched pleas on social media to try to find out information
about the missing couple who were on holiday together.Scott Chalkley, 42

Mr Chalkey's son Ross Naylor also took to Twitter in a desperate bid to find
information about his dad in the aftermath of the attack.

Sue and Scott were enjoying their dream holiday after recently buying a house
together.

Ross said on Facebook: "Tonight me and Brad lost our dad. Unfortunately he was
caught up in the sickening attack in Tunisia and is not longer with us.

"I'm sure many of you have seen the news about Sue as well so all I ask is that
people let both families grieve in peace."

Trudy Jones

Trudy, from Blackwood, south Wales, was named by Islwyn MP Chris Evans as one of
the victims of the tragedy.

Wales Online reports a statement released by Mr Evans said: "When the news broke
of the evil attack on innocent holidaymakers in Tunisia we knew it was likely
that British citizens were among the casualties.

"The reality of this horrific and brutal attack has now been brought home to our
communities with the news that Trudy Jones of Blackwood is among those
murdered."

Claire Windass, 54

Claire, from Hull, was sunbathing with her husband Jim when she was shot by the
gunman.

The mum-of-two was due to fly back home today after arriving at the resort on
Sunday for a week-long holiday.

Claire worked for is believed to have worked at North Lincolnshire Council.Bruce
Wilkinson , 72

Mr Wilkinson is from Goole, Humberside. He is understood to have been on holiday
with his wife.

The family of Bruce Wilkinson has issued a statement to the grandfather. He was
on holiday with his wife Rita when the attack began.

In a statement issued via their MP Andrew Percy, they said:

"We are devastated at the loss of Bruce, who was a devoted husband, father and
grandfather.

"Bruce was a loving family man, and in his working life worked to support the
care of others.

"He was a kind and compassionate man, with a dry sense of humour.

"He was fun-loving, and will be deeply missed by friends and family alike.

"The family would like to thank everyone who has supported them since the tragic
of events of last Friday, and we respectfully ask to be left in peace to
grieve."Lisa Burbidge

Lisa, believed to be in her 60s, was from Whickham, Northumbria.

She was enjoying a break with her family at the time of the terror attack.

Ms Burbidge's granddaughter Chloe Thompson left a tribute on the Newcastle
Chronicle's Facebook page, saying: "My angel, my bestfriend love you always
grandma, rest in peace."

She also thanked the dozens of readers who responded to her comment with
condolences.

The grandmother of four has been described as a devoted to her husband Bill
until he died of cancer.

Her son-in-law, David Thompson, wrote of her on Facebook:

"Quote My amazing mother in- law was shot and killed in tunisia yesterday ..she
loved the place, people and had been to that hotel 6 times..she has left two
wonderful daughters and four fantastic grandkids.

"She also had another holiday booked to go again in August with the family."

Ann McQuire, 63

Mrs McQuire, 63, a former medical practice receptionist, was on holiday with
husband James when she was killed in the attack.

James McQuire, 66

James, from Cumbernauld in North Lanarkshire, was on holiday with his wife Ann
at the time of the attack.

Mr McQuire, 66, is a former marine engineer who volunteered at the Edinburgh
Boys' Brigade. He had been due to attend a Royal Garden Party in Edinburgh on
his return from holiday.

He was originally on a list of British people being treated in hospital but his
death has since been announced by his family.

McQuire tweet

A number of Brits were also injured in the attack, including:

Cheryl Mellor

Cheryl Mellor was doing crosswords on the beach when IS killer Seifeddine Rezgui
opened fire.

She was hit in a forearm and leg as engineer Stephen, 59, slumped motionless on
the sand while trying to shield her.

Tearful Cheryl, 55, told of her dramatic escape as a picture emerged of the
gunman strolling along the beach at Sousse shortly after the massacre which has
so far claimed the lives of 15 Brits among the 38 holidaymakers killed.

Speaking from her hospital bed, the retired psychiatric nurse said she believes
her husband of nine years did not survive.

"He died on the beach. I'm heartbroken," she wept

Stephen Mellor, 59

Stephen, from Bodmin, Cornwall, was shot on the beach as he tried to shield wife
Cheryl from the bullets.

Cheryl told the Mirror Stephen had died on the beach and he had no pulse when
people checked his heartbeat.

However, as of last night Cheryl had not received official confirmation of
Stephen's death.

Matthew James, 30

The gas engineers is recovering in hospital after using his body as a human
shield to protect Sarah from being killed by the terrorist gunman.

The 30-year-old took bullets to his shoulder, chest and hip as the terrorists
fired Kalashnikov at the sunbeds at the Sousee Beach in Tunisia.

Speaking from the hospital where Matthew is recovering from a shattered pelvis
and a heart attack, Sarah, 26, said: "He took a bullet for me. I owe him my life
because he threw himself in front of me when the shooting started.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:28 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: British survivor says 'Tunisians formed human shield to
protect tourists';
John Yeoman posted a picture taken during the shooting and said the men in the
background were not stood watching the gunman - but trying to save people

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 388 words


A British survivor of the Tunisian hotel massacre says brave Tunisians formed a
human shield to protect Western tourists.

John Yeoman, who was in the hotel next to the one targeted by the gunman, said
the men in the background of a picture taken during the shooting were not stood
watching the gunman - but trying to save people.

The 46 year-old transport worker from Kettering described how the staff at the
Bellevue hotel lined up to prevent killer gunman Seifeddine Rezgui from going
into the hotel after he opened fire.

Flowers lay on Tunisian beach for victims of massacre

Read more: Latest updates from Tunisia following the harrowing attack

Human shield

John told MirrorOnline: "It's amazing what they did. The staff were in a line
and they were shouting at him, saying 'we won't let you through'.

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

"They shouted: 'You'll have to go through us'. That's why he's got his back
turned to them.

"He tried to get to my hotel and they stood in a line."

As a result the 23-year-old - who told Tunisians he wasn't after them and
targeted helpless Western tourists - turned and walked away.

Read more: Hero who acted as human shield for fiancee gives thumbs up from
hospital bed

John said the Tunisian hotel staff were "amazing" during and after the attack.

He said: "I can't describe the look on the (hotel staff's) faces. They were
horrified."

Earlier John tweeted: "Those in the background formed a human shield to protect
another hotel, they are not watching. They saved many lives. "

Tunisia terror attack: scenes of chaos as emergency services transport injured
from beach to hospital

John was forced to hide in his hotel room during the killing spree, and has
spoken of his relief at being back in the UK.

Read more: Grief-stricken sons announce death of missing parents after desperate
online search

He tweeted: "After a long day and a bottle of red wine to numb the experiences
of the 34 hours I'm ready for bed and a cuddle with my wife. Night all."

On Friday he posted a picture of a makeshift barricade he hastily made in front
of his hotel room door as the killer was carrying out his savage spree.

Other holidaymakers have been talking of the desperate measures they took to
survive, including one woman who played dead as her husband was shot in front of
her.

Tunisia timeline

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:24 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: How 30 minutes of horror unfolded as holidaymakers basked
in midday sun;
Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui arrived on the beach at Port el-Kantaouiat at around
11.55am on Friday and opened fire five minutes later

BYLINE: By Richard Wheatstone

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 323 words


The El Kantaoui beach was crowded with holidaymakers as lone gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui arrived on the shore at around 11.55am.

Five minutes later he opened fire on dozens of innocent tourists - sparking a
horrifying gun and grenade rampage which claimed the lives of 39 people.

Eye-witnesses described seeing Rezgui arrive on the beach on either a small boat
or a jet ski.

He calmly strolled along the beach with his gun hidden in a parasol and chatted
with people on the beach.

Tunisia timeline

The 23-year-old is believed to have been identifying Western targets and telling
some Tunisians on the beach to "go away now".

Around five minutes after arriving, Rezgui opened fire.

Read more: Live updates following Tunisian beach massacre

Eye-witnesses stated he first shot at a paraglider hovering over the sea before
turning and spraying bullets into nearby sunbathers.

Joel Richards, 19, his uncle Adrian Eveans, 49 and granddad Patrick Evans, 78,
were among the British victims gunned down on the beach.

Others - including Joel's younger brother Owen, 16 - managed to flee back
towards the Imperial Marhaba Hotel.

The killer eventually followed the crowds into the beachfront hotel and panicked
holidaymakers looked to barricade themselves in rooms and offices.

British victim Carly Lovett, 24, was among those who escaped the beach but was
then killed by a grenade blast in the lobby of the hotel.

After firing guns and explosives in the Imperial Marhaba and the neighbouring
Rui Bellevue Hotel, Rezgui then made his way out into nearby side streets as
security forces descended.

Tunisia hotel attack: See the terror on the ground as one of the shooters is
killed in street gun battle

He exchanged gunshots with armed officers as he became surrounded before he was
eventually gunned down.

Shocking video footage shows the moment one officer shot him repeatedly on the
ground before onlookers crowded around the body.

Tunisia attack: The day after the attack

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 10:19 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui was 'Real Madrid-loving break
dancer' who became 'brainwashed' by extremism;
The 23-year-old student was described by friends as 'like any other young man'
before he started praising jihad and posting extremist messages

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 633 words


Tunisia beach gunman Seifeddine Rezgui was a break dancing enthusiast who lived
his life 'like any other young man' - according to shocked friends and
neighbours.

The 23-year-old engineering student massacred 39 people in the popular Tunisian
resort of Sousse before being shot dead by security forces.

The killer was described as a football-loving young man who started to raise
concern as he posted extremist messages on social media and praised jihad.

Rezgui came from the town of Gaafour in the Siliana region, the country's prime
minister Habib Essid said yesterday.

In the months before the atrocity, he was based in the Islamic town of Kairouan,
30 miles from Sousse. He had never travelled abroad.

He lived with four other young men also thought to be students, and was studying
aviation at the local university - just as Mohammad Atta, the 9/11 leader, did
before the terrorist attack on the Twin Towers in New York.

Read more: Live updates following Tunisian beach massacre

When they moved into the house in the R'bib Sidi Belgacem district a year ago,
neighbours were alarmed by their attitude.

"They didn't even say hello to us," said Salah Korbia, who lives opposite the
tiny mosque where they spent much of their time.

"Everyone in the neighbourhood was against them being there," he said.

A Facebook page believed to have belonged to him shows him posting about Real
Madrid and the Tunisian national football team.

Rezgui's uncle said he was "just like the other young men" who liked to play
football or go to a cafe after praying in the local mosque.

He loved break dancing and entered several competitions in the capital city
Tunis and a video has emerged appearing to show him dancing around five years
ago.

Just hours before the attack, Rezgui was at home talking with his uncle about
his life and studies.

"Everything was perfectly normal," his uncle Ali Bin Muhammad Rezgui said. The
distraught 70-year-old said: "He was with me on Thursday. We sat in the garden
and he was perfectly normal.

"We had no idea what he was planning. We talked about his life and studies. That
was the last time I saw him.

"He was a sweet boy when he was younger. He was a breakdancer and loved
football. He should have had a long, happy life."

Neighbours suggested the gunman may have been brainwashed.

Monia Riahi, 50, who is a neighbour and family friend, described him as "good,
good, good!".

She told the Observer: "I've known him since he was small. He was never in
trouble with anyone ever. Maybe he was brainwashed or something."

Rezgui's father, who is a day labourer working on farms or the nearby railway
line was taken to the Tunisian capital for police questioning.

Neighbour Ammar Fazai, 64, told the Observer: "I think maybe, just maybe, it was
poverty that did it."

A Tunisian Interior Ministry source said that while Rezgui did not have a
criminal record, he was known to authorities for 'low level radicalism' and was
once stopped by police for smoking cannabis.

The source confirmed that Rezgui was an active member of a radical group called
Islamic Youth and would go to mosques controlled by radical preachers.

Images have emerged of the the gunman standing barefoot on the beach dressed in
a black T-shirt and shorts, with a gun in his hand

Photographs taken after the attack appeared to show Rezgui's body after he was
shot by police.

Sky gunman pic

A picture released by Islamic State showed clean-cut Seifedine Rezgui dressed in
a crisp white T-shirt wearing an easy smile as he carried off a relaxed pose for
the camera.

IS posted on the internet: "Soldier of the Khalifat, Abu Yahya AlQuirawani, may
God accept him, a night of the Sousse invasion in the Muslim Tunisia."

The only clues as to the 23-year-old aviation student's deadly mission were two
Kalashnikovs in the otherwise nondescript background.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 1:22 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: British teenager's horror as first foreign holiday ends
in nightmare;
Abbie Douglas, 19, from Wallsend, was enjoying her her first trip abroad with
her boyfriend and without her family

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 486 words


A British teenager has spoken of her horror after her first foreign holiday
turned into a bloodbath following terrorist attacks on Tunisia yesterday.

Abbie Douglas, 19, from Wallsend, was enjoying her her first trip abroad with
her boyfriend and without her family.

But yesterday her dream getaway turned into a nightmare when jihadi gunmen
opened fire on tourists in Sousse, the Newcastle Chronicle reports.

"We were sunbathing when we heard a bang but we just thought someone had dropped
something heavy" said the 19-year-old, who is on a Jet2 package holiday from
Newcastle Airport with 22-year-old boyfriend Sam Younganan.

"There were a few more [bangs] but we didn't know what was going on.

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

"Someone said there was a shooting and everyone ran inside."

The pair were sunbathing beside the pool at the Soviva Resort, which was
opposite the under fire Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba in the Port El Kantaoui
neighbourhood, when they heard the gunfire.

Wearing just a bikini Abbie took refuge in the hotel and along with a group of
fellow tourists, she and Sam blockaded themselves in.

"People have been struggling to get hold of their families," she added.

"I spoke to my brother and my mam so they know I'm safe."

Speaking in the aftermath of the attack Abbie was still shaking but said things
were beginning to regain some sense of normality in the hotel though no one
could enter or leave the resort.

Tunisia terror attack: Horrific scenes of people fleeing from gunman on beach

She added: "I can't eat, I can't drink - we're in a neighbouring block and I
don't want to walk back to ours it's a few minutes walk.

"People are in reception now having beers, I want to relax but I don't want to
drink.

"We were supposed to be coming back on Wednesday but we want to come home
tonight, but we're waiting to hear what's happening.

"Jet2 have held a meeting, the army have blockaded the area and no one can get
in or out so we've been told its low-risk anything else will happen.

"I'm more nervous about the trip back to the airport - it's about an
hour-and-a-half drive.

"I never expected this, it's like something out of a film, it's just horrible.

Her brother Jamie Douglas said his family were hugely relieved after hearing
Abbie was safe.

"I spoke to her about 30 minutes ago, it was a big relief," he told the
Chronicle on Friday afternoon.

"She's locked in some random hotel room with some other Brits.

"They were out by the pool, they heard what they now know is a gun shot and
thought nothing of it, then they seen people running past with blood on them.

Newspaper Front Pages from around the world

"They're in a hotel room, they've locked the doors, shut the windows and the
hotel is on lock down.

"I got a text off her saying there was a gun attack, I was bricking myself.

"When I spoke to her she was crying, she'd text and kept texting us.

"I've been looking at flights to try and get her back."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:45 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Grief-stricken sons announce death of missing British
couple following desperate online search;
Conor Fulford and Ross Naylor had taken to Twitter immediately after the gun
attack for news of Sue Davey and Scott Chalkley - but have now revealed their
deaths

BYLINE: By Jessica Best

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 1248 words


Grief-stricken sons have taken to Twitter to announce the deaths of a British
couple in the Tunisia gun massacre.

Conor Fulford, 23, and Ross Naylor had taken to Twitter immediately after the
gun attack for news of Sue Davey and Scott Chalkley - both 42 - who were in
Sousse on holiday together.

But Conor, who is Sue's son, and Ross, who is Scott's, have now taken to Twitter
to announce their tragic deaths.

Read more: Find all the latest from Tunisia in our live blog

The two sons had begged for help to find their respective parents in the
aftermath of the gun attack - but have now revealed that both were tragically
killed.

The couple were staying at the Imperial Hotel in Sousse, Tunisia, where the
warped shooter gunned down Western tourists with an assault rifle hidden under
an umbrella.

Sue and Scott, who both worked for Severn Trent Water, were enjoying their dream
holiday after recently buying a house together.

Conor took to Twitter tonight saying: "Hi Everyone, Sorry to tell you we lost my
mother Sue Davey tonight but i want to thank everybody that tried to help me &
my family ..."

Ross said on Facebook: "Tonight me and Brad lost our dad. Unfortunately he was
caught up in the sickening attack in Tunisia and is not longer with us.

"I'm sure many of you have seen the news about Sue aswell so all I ask is that
people let both families grieve in peace."

Ross Naylor Tweet

It comes after it was tragically revealed that three members of the same family
are reported to have been killed in the Tunisian gun massacre after grandfather
Patrick Evans was named as the sixth British victim.

Mr Evans is understood to be the father of Adrian Evans, and the grandfather of
Joel Richards, 19, both of who died in the attack at the resort of Sousse on
Friday.

Conor Fulford

Joel, a student at the University of Worcester, died alongside his uncle Adrian.

Carly Lovett, from Lincoln, Bruce Wilkinson, from Goole, East Yorkshire, and
Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham, Tyne and Wear are also among the dead.

Joel and his uncle Adrian were keen supporters of Walsall Football Club while
Joel was also a talented referee "with the world at his feet."

In a statement, Birmingham County FA said: "Joel was an active member of the
Birmingham County FA youth council.

"A young talented referee with the world at his feet, he was highly thought of
and will be sadly missed.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends at this time."

The teenager's Facebook profile picture shows him standing on Wembley Way when
the League One side played there earlier this year.

A post was also uploaded on fans' forum site Vital Walsall paying tribute to the
tragic victims.

It said: "We are saddened to report that Walsall fans Adrian Evans and Joel
Richards have been reported to be amongst the victims of the Tunisia terrorist
attacks.

"Adrian, Joel and another family member who is yet to be named were on the beach
in Sousse when a terrorist started shooting.

"Our deepest condolences and prayers are with their family and friends at this
deeply sad time.

"Fellow Saddlers you will be forever in our hearts."

Mr Evans worked as a manager for Sandwell Council in the West Midlands, based in
its gas services department.

A council source described the news as "horrendous" and said their thoughts were
with the family and council colleagues.

The Birmingham Mail reports that he died alongside two other members of his
family, although this has not been confirmed.

A council source told the paper Mr Evans had worked for the council for 32
years, and was on his first day of a holiday in Tunisia.

He was due to spend seven days in the African country before a week's stay in
France.

The source said: "When I heard about it I was very sickened. To have someone so
close to you lost in such a way is terrible.

"He was a committed man who gave good service to the people of Sandwell."

It comes after 24-year-old Carly Lovett was the first British victim to be named
earlier today.

PM David Cameron says public needs to be prepared for the fact that "many of
those killed" in the Tunisia attack were British

The newly engaged beauty blogger is believed to have been on holiday with her
fiance when she was killed.

Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood warned that figure "may well rise" further,
adding that it was "the most significant terrorist attack on the British people"
since July 7, 2005, when 52 people were killed.

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

British police have flown to the resort to help identify victims, consular teams
are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected, and he said had spent
much of today on the phone with victims and families caught up in the "appalling
attack".

Tunisia attack: The day after the attack

The death toll in the terrorist attack at the beach resort of Sousse currently
stands at 38, with eight of the dead confirmed to be British.

But the Tunisian prime minister has warned that the "majority" of those killed
were British.

David Cameron echoed that earlier today, saying that the country needed to
prepare itself for further news that "many of those killed would be British".

The slaughter happened when a gunman, disguised as a tourist, opened fire on the
busy beach in the resort, a popular destination for holidaymakers from the UK
and Ireland.

Terror group Islamic State have claimed responsibility for the attack.

The gunman, identified as Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani, 23, was reportedly laughing as
he carried out the massacre and deliberately selected western tourists.

Witnesses said he used a Kalashnikov rifle hidden inside an umbrella to shoot
the tourists sunbathing on the beach.

An eyewitness quoted by local radio said: "He was laughing and joking around,
like a normal guy. He was choosing who to shoot. Some people, he was saying to
them, 'You go away'. He was choosing tourists, British, French."

Among the victims was also an Irish mother-of-two who was named locally as Lorna
Carty from Robinstown, County Meath.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and she was believed to have gone to the beach by herself
when the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond gave details of the government response today.

He said: "The situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can't be
sure exactly how many, but because of the nature of the composition of the
tourist population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high
proportion of those killed and injured will have been British."

Shocking new footage shows deadly Tunisian gun attack

It comes three months after mother-of-two Sally Adey, from Caynton, near
Shifnal, died in a terrorist attack in Tunis.

Mrs Adey, a retired solicitor, died in the shooting at the Bardo National Museum
in Tunisia on March 18.

She had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her 52-year-old husband Robert, who
survived the attack.

More than 20 people were killed in the attack, with 17 of those being cruise
ship passengers.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  News Shopper

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

7/7 London bombings: Capital prepares to mark 10th anniversary of terror attacks

BYLINE: Press Association and news reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 485 words


Final arrangements are being made to mark the 10th anniversary of the terrorist
attacks in London which claimed the lives of 52 innocent people and injured
hundreds more.

Survivors of the 7/7 bombings and relatives of those who died will join David
Cameron, London Mayor Boris Johnson, other politicians and members of the
emergency services at memorial events on July 7.

Firefighters, London Underground staff, paramedics and passengers caught up in
the horrors of a decade ago will mark the anniversary in different ways.

Many will attend memorial events, some will return to the scenes of the bombs
which ripped though Tube trains and a London bus while others do not want to
remember.

The terror attack in Tunisia, another Islamist extremist atrocity which claimed
the lives of innocent Britons, is likely to make July 7 all the more poignant
for many.

Jeff Porter, who was driving a Tube in the opposite direction to one which
exploded, is going to the seaside for a few days while David Boyce, one of the
first LU staff to realise a bomb had exploded near Russell Square, will return
to the station to pay his respects.

Memories of the fateful day will come flooding back for the hundreds of innocent
passengers and many heroes who dealt with the outrage.

July 7 2005 had dawned with London still elated from learning the previous day
that it had won the 2012 Olympics, but the euphoria was short-lived.

Suicide bombers Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain,
18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, met at Luton station that morning.

They took a train to King's Cross in London, then hugged and separated to carry
out their deadly missions.

Within three minutes of 8.50am, Tanweer detonated his bomb at Aldgate, Khan set
his device off at Edgware Road and Lindsay blew himself up between King's Cross
and Russell Square.

Hussain detonated his device on board the number 30 bus at Tavistock Square at
9.47am.

Twenty-six died in the bombing at Russell Square on the Piccadilly line, six
died in the bombing at Edgware Road on the Circle Line, seven died in the
bombing at Aldgate on the Circle Line and 13 died in the bombing on the number
30 bus at Tavistock Square.

A fortnight later, another four would-be suicide bombers launched failed attacks
on the Tube and a bus, leading to police marksmen shooting dead innocent
Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes.

Many police officers, firefighters, paramedics and London Underground staff
displayed extraordinary bravery in descending into dark and smoke-filled Tube
tunnels, aware that they could face further bombs.

An inquest in 2011 heard that their ability to help the injured and dying was
restricted by issues ranging from equipment shortages to delays in reaching the
scenes of the attacks.

The 7/7 coroner, Lady Justice Hallett, found that each one of the 52 innocent
victims would have died ''whatever time the emergency services reached and
rescued them'."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (London)

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 2:33 PM GMT

Fifteen Britons killed in Tunisia beach massacre with death toll set to rise;
Security stepped up at UK tourist destinations and events such as Wimbledon in
wake of terror attacks in Tunisia, France and Kuwait

BYLINE: Mark Townsend, Daniel Boffey and Tracy McVeigh in London and Chris
Stephen in Sousse

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1052 words


At least 15 Britons are now known to be among the 39 tourists killed in the
brutal Tunisian beachside massacre on Friday. And the families of seven tourists
still missing faced an agonising wait for news after the worst terrorist outrage
to hit Britons since the London attacks in July 2005.

"We fear more sad news is to come," said a Downing Street source. The Observer
understands that seven British holidaymakers who were caught up in the attack
are in a critical condition in hospital: two are in a coma, and a further three
are in intensive care. The condition of 26 other injured people - of other
nationalities - was unclear.

The gunman, Tunisian Seifeddine Rezgui, was shot dead by police after his
20-minute shooting spree on Friday. As security was being ramped up at tourist
sites and public places across Britain after Friday's day of bloodshed, in which
60 people died in three attacks across three continents, the first among the
victims of the Tunisian shootings were named.

They were 24-year-old photographer Carly Lovett from Lincolnshire; Adrian Evans,
49, who worked for Sandwell council in the West Midlands; his nephew, Joel
Richards, 19, who played for Birmingam-based Gaelic football team James
Connollys GFC; Irish nurse Lorna Carty, from County Meath; and Lana Lemaire, a
Ukrainian who lived in Belgium. Lovett, a beauty and fashion blogger and
graduate of the University of Lincolnshire, had travelled to Tunisia on
Wednesday with her fiancé, Liam Moore. Expressing their shock, her friends
talked of how excited she had been about the trip. One, Dave Overton, said she
was a "friendly but also a tough character with a sensible and practical outlook
on life".

A statement from Birmingham County FA, where Richards was a member of the youth
council, said: "A young, talented referee with the world at his feet, Joel was
highly thought of and will be sadly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with
his family and friends at this tragic time."

David Cameron warned the public to be prepared for a rising British death toll.
Meanwhile, there was frustration and criticism directed at British Foreign
Office officials for being too slow, and "rude and ignorant" towards worried
relatives, some of whom took to social media to post pictures of their loved
ones. Conor Fulford, from Staffordshire, was trying to find his mother, Sue
Davey. He tweeted photographs of her with the hashtag #FindSueDavey.

He criticised the information being given by the Foreign Office: "They just said
if they find any leads, they will let us know. I'm at a loss for words at the
minute."

Fulford later confirmed his mother was among the victims. He tweeted: "Hi
Everyone, Sorry to tell you we lost my mother Sue Davey tonight but i want to
thank everybody that tried to help me & my family".

A cohort of Scotland Yard counter-terrorism officers and consular staff were
sent out to the scene of Friday's beach massacre as travel agents scrambled to
lay on extra flights and on Saturday airlifted 2,500 UK holidaymakers out of the
north African country.

The Tunisian prime minister, Habib Essid, said that the majority of the dead
were British and deplored the attack at the Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel, where
Rezgui, a 23-year-old engineering student, shot his victims with a Kalashnikov
rifle he had hidden in a parasol. It was one of three attacks on Friday by
gunmen linked to Islamic State.

In Kuwait, a mass funeral was held for the 27 men and boys killed on Friday as
they knelt in prayer at a mosque and the Gulf state's government called for a
day of national mourning. The suicide bombing of the Shia mosque in the capital,
Kuwait City, left 227 people injured.

In France a man was decapitated in an attack at a factory in Lyon. Yassin Sali,
35, caused an explosion by ramming a car into an area where fuel canisters were
being stored but was arrested at the scene.

On Tuesday, an Isis spokesman had called for militants to cause "calamity for
infidels" and to step up attacks during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan. David
Cameron on Saturday insisted, however, that there was no intelligence to suggest
the attacks were deliberately linked.

Cameron, speaking after Saturday's Cobra emergency committee meeting, repeated
warnings that Britain was facing a long-term threat and promised to make a
statement in the Commons on Monday to update MPs on the government's security
plans as events developed in Tunisia and elsewhere. He also warned that the
public faced "a very severe threat in our country and we have done for many
months and many years".

The UK's threat level for international terrorism is currently "severe", meaning
an attack is highly likely, and has been since last August in response to
conflicts in Iraq and Syria. It is one level below "critical" when an attack is
believed "imminent".

Announcing heightened security at major events, including Armed Forces Day and
Wimbledon, which starts on Monday, Cameron said: "If we work together, if we are
vigilant, if we back our police and anti-terrorism forces, if we combat this
poisonous narrative of Islamist extremism that is radicalising too many young
minds in our country; if we do all those things and show the persistence and the
determination that I have talked about, then we will overcome."

Police seized a drone hovering over Wimbledon's tennis courts as part of a
concerted tightening of security as Scotland Yard's most senior anti-terror
official announced police were looking to "strengthen the protection and
security of key sites, business and public places around the UK".

Tunisia's prime minister has ordered a clampdown on radical mosques in the
aftermath of Friday's attack. Police will close about 80 mosques associated by
authorities with radical preachers within a week, with Essid saying they were
spreading "venom".

Thousands of tourists are joining what is threatening to be a mass exodus from
the country, one of north Africa's prime tourist destinations. An estimated
20,000 British tourists are in Tunisia, and many are clamouring to be brought
home.

The Foreign Office updated its travel advice, warning against visits to areas of
the country in the south and west, with its website saying there is a high
threat from terrorism, including kidnapping. Attacks could be indiscriminate,
including in places visited by foreigners.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBONS


                   Copyright 2015 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 2:59 AM BST

ATTACKS SHAPED FIGHT AGAINST TERROR

BYLINE: Hayden Smith, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 647 words


The July 7 attacks shaped the landscape for the fight against terrorism in the
UK for years to come.

They represented the first major atrocity on British soil by Islamist extremists
and brought into stark relief a threat which was so horrifyingly demonstrated in
New York four years earlier

That the perpetrators were all ``home-grown'', apparently normal members of
society, made their murderous acts all the more shocking.

When another attempt to bomb the capital's transport network failed a fortnight
after 7/7, the sense of alert heightened further.

Then-prime minister Tony Blair warned that the ``rules of the game are
changing'' as he announced wide-ranging powers to combat Muslim extremists.

The following year, the government made public for the first time authorities'
assessment of the possibility of a terror attack in UK at any given time.

In an indication of the enduring nature of the threat, it has mainly stood at
either of the top two levels - critical or severe - since it was first published
in August 2006.

Although no mass casualty attacks on the scale of 7/7 have happened since, there
is no doubt that the UK has been targeted for terrorist operations on a number
of occasions over the last decade.

In November, Home Secretary Theresa May revealed that 40 plots have been foiled
since the bombings.

Some of these have been well-documented, such as a plan to blow up transatlantic
jets and to bomb the London Stock Exchange, while others are known only to the
security services.

Warnings have also been issued about the possibility of a ``Mumbai-style''
attack.

Terrorism returned to London in a different form in 2013 when two Islamist
fanatics murdered Drummer Lee Rigby near Woolwich Barracks in broad daylight.

If al Qaida were seen as posing the greatest threat in the aftermath of 7/7, the
emergence of Islamic State (IS) in the Middle East has added a new dimension to
the challenge facing the police and security services.

Like al Qaida, IS has sought to export its own brand of terror beyond Syria and
Iraq and claimed responsibility for the attack on tourists in Tunisia.

In a recent speech, Mrs May said: ``The atrocities on 7/7, carried out by
British terrorists, intent on the mass murder of fellow British citizens,
changed the way we understood and approached the threat from terrorism.

``Ten years later we have seen that the threat has evolved, and it has become
more serious and more complex.''

Earlier this year police revealed that more than 700 British-based extremists
have travelled to Syria, with a significant proportion of those believed to have
made the journey to fight with the extremist group.

A wave of young men set off to join IS and the group's UK link was most notably
exposed with the unmasking of Londoner Mohammed Emwazi as the infamous militant
known as Jihadi John.

The exodus has led to fears that returning fighters may attempt to inflict
atrocities and the terror threat level was raised from substantial to severe in
August.

The Government has sought to combat the threat by giving police powers to seize
the passports of those suspected of plotting to join the fighting.

There have also been warnings that al Qaida remains intent on committing
atrocities.

In January Andrew Parker, the head of MI5, disclosed that a group of ``core''
terrorists linked to the group are planning attacks against the West.

Counter-terrorism units are busier than ever before. Statistics show suspects
are being arrested at a rate of almost one every day, while senior officers have
also warned rising numbers of women and children are being drawn into extremism.

The pervasiveness of the internet and social media today has added a new
dimension.

Police have warned that extremists are attempting to use online platforms to
propagate attacks and recruit new fighters and have welcomed the Government's
proposals to expand powers to track communications data.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 2:45 AM BST

TERROR ATTACKS TOOK 52 LIVES

BYLINE: Press Association Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 3269 words


These are the 52 victims of the July 7 2005 terrorist attacks on London.

Seven died in the bombing at Aldgate on the Circle Line:

Lee Baisden, 34, an accountant for the London Fire Brigade, from Romford, in
Essex.

Mr Baisden had to grow up quickly. He became the man of the house after his
father Patrick died in 1992 and spent much of his time caring for his mother,
who has multiple sclerosis.

He had hoped to marry his partner Paul Groman before he was killed.

Benedetta Ciaccia, 30, an IT business analyst from Norwich who worked for a
publishing company.

Born in Rome, she was brought up in Italy but a passion for languages and travel
led her to move to England at the age of 19.

She was two months away from marrying her fiance Fiaz Bhatti when she died.

Richard Ellery, 21, a shop worker for photographic chain Jessops from Ipswich,
Suffolk.

The eldest of three children, Mr Ellery was born and raised in Southampton, left
school at 18 and moved in with friends in Ipswich shortly before he died.

Jessops closed all its 280 stores to mark a national two-minute silence a week
after the bombings.

Richard Gray, 41, a tax manager from Ipswich, Suffolk.

Mr Gray was born in Bradford-on-Avon, Wiltshire, and met his wife Louise in 1987
when she started a part-time job at the Ipswich hotel owned by his parents. They
went on to have two children, Adam and Ruby.

He qualified as a chartered accountant specialising in tax and commuted every
day from Ipswich to his job with FW Smith Riches and Company in Pall Mall,
central London.

Anne Moffat, 48, head of marketing and communications for Girlguiding UK, from
Old Harlow, Essex.

Miss Moffat studied art in Hull before moving to London but she returned to the
family home in Old Harlow to look after her ailing mother, who died in 2002.

She was committed to helping others, and a ``Make Poverty History'' booklet was
found in her handbag when her body was recovered.

Fiona Stevenson, 29, a solicitor living in central London, originally from
Little Baddow, Essex.

Miss Stevenson had dreamed of becoming a lawyer as a teenager when at school in
Chelmsford and went on to Sussex University before fulfilling her ambition.

She joined specialist criminal law firm Reynolds Dawson but died just two weeks
after buying a new flat in central London.

Carrie Taylor, 24, a finance officer at the Royal Society of Arts, from
Billericay, Essex.

Miss Taylor, who was born in Sidcup, Kent, and grew up in Billericay, discovered
a passion for drama at a young age and went on to study it at Royal Holloway,
University of London.

Her ambition was to work behind the scenes in the arts and she was given a
permanent job at the Royal Society of Arts three days before her death.

Six died in the bombing at Edgware Road on the Circle Line:

Michael Stanley Brewster, 52, a civil engineer and father-of-two from Swanwick,
Derbyshire.

Mr Brewster, who was known as Stan, was a senior project manager for Derbyshire
County Council, where his main interests were the design and structure of
bridges.

A keen cyclist who rode 12 miles to work every day, he also played football and
golf and took part in triathlons to raise money for a local hospital.

Jonathan Downey, 34, from Milton Keynes, an HR systems development officer.

The Liverpool FC fan, who was brought up in Corby, Northamptonshire, was
planning to move to Ireland with his wife Veronica.

Kensington and Chelsea Council, where he worked, placed a bench outside the town
hall in his memory.

David Foulkes, 22, a newspaper sales manager from Oldham, Greater Manchester.

Mr Foulkes was educated at Hulme Grammar School, where he became a member of the
team that won the Greater Manchester under-16 squash championship.

He had just begun a new job with The Guardian newspaper and travelled to London
on July 7 for a work meeting.

Jennifer Nicholson, 24, from Reading, Berkshire, who worked for a music company.

Born in Bristol, she underwent major surgery to correct a curvature of the spine
while at school before studying music and English at Reading University.

The opera fan planned to do a PhD, marry her soulmate James White and had spoken
of her hopes of becoming a mother.

Colin Morley, 52, from Finchley, north London, who worked in advertising and
marketing.

The father-of-three grew up in Coulsdon in Surrey, Leeds and Liverpool before
going to university in London, where he met his wife Ros.

He was responsible for the popular mobile phone campaign: ``Who would you like
to have a one to one with?''

Laura Webb, 29, from Islington, north London, who worked as a personal assistant
for an advertising firm in Paddington.

Miss Webb, who was brought up in Kingston Vale, Surrey, was a passionate
globetrotter who spent nearly a year travelling through Thailand, Australia and
South America with her boyfriend, Chris Driver, before they cut their trip short
after the 9/11 attacks.

She and Mr Driver planned to spend the rest of their lives together and were
intending to buy a home, marry and have a family.

Twenty-six died in the bombing between King's Cross and Russell Square on the
Piccadilly line:

James Adams, 32, a mortgage broker from Peterborough, Cambridgeshire.

Mr Adams was born in Chester and educated at the King's School in Peterborough,
where he shared bunk beds with Labour MP David Lammy.

He was a committed Christian who served as a deacon at his church for three
years. An orphanage he supported in southern India erected a building in his
memory.

Samantha Badham, 35, an internet designer who lived in Tottenham, north London.

Hereford-born Miss Badham was head girl at the John Masefield High School in
Ledbury, Herefordshire, before studying history at Birmingham University.

She and her long-term partner Lee Harris were killed together after they changed
their normal routine and took the Tube because they were planning to meet
friends after work.

Philip Beer, 22, a hair stylist from Borehamwood, Hertfordshire.

Mr Beer started work at a salon after leaving school at 16 and dreamed of
travelling the world as a well-known hairdresser.

His friend and colleague Patrick Barnes, who was travelling with him on the
train targeted by suicide bomber Jermaine Lindsay, said Mr Beer's last words to
him after the attack were: ``Everything's going to be fine.''

Anna Brandt, 42, a Polish national living in Wood Green, north London, who
worked as a cleaner.

The mother-of-two ran her own restaurant in Poland before coming to the UK in
2002.

On the day she was killed, her daughter Natalie had arrived to visit her in
London but they missed each other before the tragedy.

Ciaran Cassidy, 22, a shop assistant from Upper Holloway, north London.

The passionate Arsenal fan came from a large Irish family and worked for a legal
and stationery firm in Chancery Lane.

At the time of his death he had been saving up to go to Australia, and his
family had expected him to move there permanently because the lifestyle would
have suited his laid-back personality.

Rachelle Chung For Yuen, 27, an accountant from Mill Hill, north London, who was
originally from Mauritius.

The devout Roman Catholic grew up on Mauritius, the eldest of three sisters, and
worked to pay her own way through her accountancy studies.

She came to Britain in 2000 to complete her training and married her husband
Billy in London in May 2004.

Elizabeth Daplyn, 26, a hospital administrator from Highgate, north London.

Leicester-born Miss Daplyn was a talented artist and musician who graduated from
Oxford University in 2001 with a degree in fine art.

She lived in a variety of places, including Pakistan and Nigeria, before moving
into a flat with her boyfriend, Rob Brennan, several months before her death.

Arthur Frederick, 60, a museum security guard from Seven Sisters, north London,
who was originally from the Caribbean.

Born in Grenada, Mr Frederick moved to Montserrat as a young man and worked
there as a policeman for nearly 32 years as well as recording a calypso song
called Signs of Christmas that is still popular on the island.

He moved to London after becoming worried about the eruption of Montserrat's
Soufriere Hills volcano in the late 1990s.

Karolina Gluck, 29, a Polish national living in Finsbury Park, north London, who
worked at a private postgraduate college.

Miss Gluck was born in the town of Chorzow in Poland and followed her twin
sister Magda to London in 2002.

At the time of her death she and her sister were planning to return to Poland
the next month to introduce their boyfriends to their family.

Gamze Gunoral, 24, a Turkish national staying in Totteridge, north London, while
she studied English.

Istanbul-born Miss Gunoral, an only child who was brought up by her mother after
her parents divorced when she was five, excelled at school and graduated from
university as an actuary in 2003.

The ambitious businesswoman came to Britain after deciding to take a year's
break from her job with Turkey's largest export company to improve her English.

Lee Harris, 30, an architect who lived in Tottenham, north London.

Mr Harris, who grew up in Hereford, worked for architecture firm 3DReid on
projects including Heathrow Airport's central bus station and the Terminal 1
international departures lounge.

He died alongside his partner Miss Badham, whom he met at Hereford Lads Club
some 14 years before the attacks.

Ojara Ikeagwu, 55, a social worker from Luton.

Mrs Ikeagwu was born in Nigeria and came to Britain in 1976 with her husband and
their three young children.

She was devoted to her family and a generous supporter of children in her home
village in Nigeria, which following her death made her a chief and named its
primary school after her.

Emily Jenkins, 24, a PA for a project management company, who lived in Peckham,
south-east London.

Miss Jenkins, who grew up in Kew, south-west London, travelled widely. She lived
in South America, Spain and Australia before returning to Britain and setting
her heart on becoming a midwife.

Adrian Johnson, 37, a married father-of-two and product technical manager from
Sutton-in-Ashfield, Nottinghamshire.

His work for luxury fashion house Burberry took him all over Europe, including a
lot of time in Italy and the company's base in Haymarket in London.

Mr Johnson met his future wife Catherine at school when they were 15, and his
ambition was to see his family comfortable and his children grow up.

Helen Jones, 28, an accountant living in Holloway, north London.

Miss Jones was born in Edinburgh but grew up in Templand near Lockerbie. She
moved to London in November 2001 and worked for Phoenix Equity Partners.

Accountant colleagues called her ``Sherlock Jones'' because she was so good at
sniffing out mistakes.

Susan Levy, 53, a mother-of-two from the village of Newgate Street, near
Cuffley, Hertfordshire, who worked as a legal secretary.

She married husband Harry in 1976 and they set up home in Ilford where they
lived for 24 years before moving to Hertfordshire.

Her eldest son, Daniel, lived in Australia but said the important part of his
day was switching on his computer in the morning to find a message from his
mother waiting for him.

Shelley Mather, 26, a tour guide from New Zealand who had been living in London
for three years.

Miss Mather, the only New Zealander to die in the bombings, left her country in
2002 for a tour of Europe and enjoyed the lifestyle so much she qualified as a
travel guide.

Such was her love of travel that her ambition was to ``circumnavigate the
universe''.

Mike Minh Matsushita, 37, a Vietnamese-American who had just moved to Islington,
north London and started a new job in IT recruitment.

He was born in My Tho, south Vietnam, five months before his father was shot
dead by a drunken soldier.

Mr Matsushita later moved to New York with his mother and grew up in the Bronx
but had only been in London a month after moving to be with his girlfriend Rosie
Cowan.

James Mayes, 28, an analyst for the Healthcare Commission from Islington, north
London.

With a keen intellect and love of debate, he attended City of London School then
studied politics at the University of Warwick.

He normally would not have been on the Piccadilly line train but was going to a
seminar in Holborn in central London on July 7.

Behnaz Mozakka, 47, a biomedical officer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from
Finchley, north London.

Mrs Mozakka was born in Shiraz, Iran, before moving to the capital Tehran, where
she met her husband Naber, with whom she had a son, Saeed, and daughter, Saba.

Her family were at one point wrongly told she had survived the blast for up to
45 minutes, but in fact she died instantly.

Mihaela Otto, 46, a dental technician from Mill Hill, north London.

Miss Otto was brought up in Romania and moved to London in 1984, following in
the footsteps of her sister Dania.

Arriving in England she worked in a series of jobs, including as a Burberry
sales assistant and in publishing, before qualifying in dentistry.

Atique Sharifi, 24, an Afghan national living in Hounslow, west London, who was
studying English and IT at college.

He arrived in England in 2002 fearing for his life and having fled extremists in
his homeland after both his parents were killed in the Kabul war.

Mr Sharifi dreamed of becoming a doctor, but in his spare time he worked in a
pizza take-away so he could send money back to his sister in Afghanistan.

Ihab Slimane, 24, a waiter who lived in Finsbury Park, north London.

Mr Slimane was born in Lyon, France, but was of Tunisian descent.

The IT engineering graduate had been living in the capital for just three weeks
when he was killed, but had already made new friends and impressed work
colleagues.

Christian Small, 28, an advertising sales worker from Walthamstow, east London.

The keen sportsman and Luton Town FC fan was drawn to West Africa, particularly
Ghana and Senegal, because the region was his ancestral home.

To reflect his West African roots he changed his name by deed poll shortly
before he died to Christian Njoya Diawara, meaning a man of determination and
strong spirit.

Monika Suchocka, 23, a trainee accountant from Poland, who was living in
Archway, north London.

Ms Suchocka's ambition to work as a translator took her to Italy, France, United
States, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Germany.

She only moved to London three months before the attacks and was considering
whether to move back to Poland after her job finished in October 2005.

Mala Trivedi, 51, a radiographer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from Wembley,
north-west London.

She was born in Nairobi, Kenya, and moved to London to study at Lambeth
Hospital. She married her husband Ashock in 1975 and had one son, Kunaal.

Her colleagues said she had the potential to attain a senior role at Great
Ormond Street.

Thirteen died in the bombing on the number 30 bus in Tavistock Square:

Anthony Fatayi-Williams, 26, an oil executive from Hendon, north-west London.

Mr Fatayi-Williams was educated in Nigeria, France and the UK before joining
multinational engineering firm Amec.

On the morning of July 7 2005, he set off as usual for his office in Old Street,
central London, but his journey was disrupted by the chaos caused by the earlier
bombings on three Tube trains and he helped point other commuters in the right
direction before getting on the number 30 bus.

Jamie Gordon, 30, a City worker from Enfield, north London.

Born in south London, he moved to Zimbabwe with his family as a small child
before later returning to the UK where he achieved well at school and then in
his career.

We was killed on July 7 after taking a different route to the office from usual
after spending the night with a friend from work.

Giles Hart, 55, a BT engineer from Hornchurch, Essex.

Born in Sudan to English parents, Mr Hart moved to the UK at the age of five. He
was passionate about literature and cinema history, and devoted much time to
campaigning for justice and liberty.

He was heavily involved in the Polish solidarity movement, through which he met
his wife Danuta, with whom he had two children. After his death he was awarded
one of Poland's most prestigious honours for his services to democracy.

Marie Hartley, 34, from Oswaldtwistle, Lancashire, worked for a greetings card
firm.

She and her husband David were described as ``soul mates'' who lived ``totally''
for their sons Liam and Aiden.

A talented artist, Mrs Hartley was in London on the morning of 7/7 to attend an
exhibition in Islington, north London, with a colleague.

Miriam Hyman, 31, a picture researcher from Barnet, north London.

She was born at London's University College Hospital, graduated from University
College London and lost her life in Tavistock Square - all within about one
square mile.

Before her death, she was planning to set up her own greeting card company
called Mimento, a play on her nickname ``Mim''.

Shahara Islam, 20, a bank cashier from Plaistow, east London.

The East Ender was a Londoner and British but ``above all a true Muslim and
proud to be so'', her relatives said.

Following travel disruption on the morning of July 7, she boarded the number 30
bus with a colleague, Emma Plunkett, who survived the blast.

Neetu Jain, 37, a computer analyst from Hendon, north London.

Born in New Delhi in India, she moved to the UK with her family in 1968.

At the time of her death she had recently started a new job with an IT firm
called TXT4 based in Hoxton Square, east London, and was about to marry her
partner.

Sam Ly, 28, a computer technician from Melbourne, Australia.

Born in Vietnam, My Ly moved with his family to Melbourne, Australia, as a
refugee when he was a toddler.

He proposed to his girlfriend, Mandy Ha, at the age of five when they were at
primary school together, and they went on to become a couple at university
before moving to London in 2003.

Shyanuja Niroshini Parathasangary, 30, a post office worker from Kensal Rise,
north London.

Born in Colombo, Sri Lanka, she came to London with her family aged just 19
months and went on to graduate from London's South Bank University with a degree
in business studies and administration.

Ms Parathasangary was especially close to her sister, and the two women were
refurbishing a house with a view to moving in together at the time of her death.

Anat Rosenberg, 39, an Israeli charity worker who was living in Finsbury Park,
north London.

Born in Israel, she moved to London where she enjoyed going out almost every
night to ballet, contemporary dance, theatre, opera and concerts.

She was also an obsessive buyer of shoes, costume jewellery and quirky handbags.
After her death, the sale of her ``vast'' collection raised a huge amount of
money for Wizo, the international Jewish women's organisation.

Philip Russell, 28, a financier from Kennington, south London.

Mr Russell grew up in Kent and graduated from Kingston University with a degree
in business studies.

He then followed his passion for travelling with a solo trip to South Africa,
Australia and New Zealand before finding work in the City of London. After
joining JP Morgan Asset Management, he was promoted twice in the 20 months
before his death.

William Wise, 54, an IT specialist from Notting Hill, west London.

The son of a GP, Mr Wise grew up in Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire, and went on to
marry his wife Christine in 1976.

Although the pair separated in 1997, they got back together two years before he
was killed in the Tavistock Square bombing.

Gladys Wundowa, 50, from Ilford, Essex, who worked as a cleaner at University
College London.

Born in Ghana to a poor cocoa farming family, she moved to London in 1983 as the
maid of a Lebanese family. She met her husband, Emmanuel, in 1986 and they had a
son and a daughter.

She was planning to return to her homeland with her husband when she was
murdered.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 12:01 AM BST

BRITONS TARGETED IN TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Nina Massey Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 293 words


Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood has described the Sousse tragedy as the ``most
significant terrorist attack'' on Britons since July 7, 2005.

Here is a list of some of the other atrocities committed against Britons.

Brighton Bombing: On October 12 1984 the IRA bombed the Grand Hotel in Brighton,
killing five people and injuring 34 in the attack aimed at prime minister
Margaret Thatcher and her cabinet.

Lockerbie bombing: Abdelbaset al-Megrahi remains the only person convicted for
the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over the south of Scotland on December 21 1988.
A total of 270 people were killed.

Omagh bombing: On August 15 1998, 29 victims - who included a woman pregnant
with twins - died after a dissident republican car bomb detonated in Omagh town
centre on a busy Saturday afternoon.

It was the single bloodiest terrorist attack in the history of the Northern
Ireland Troubles and came only months after the signing of the historic Good
Friday peace accord.

Bali bombings: Twenty-eight Britons were among the 202 people killed on October
12 2002 when the al Qaida-linked Jemaah Islamiyah group detonated bombs at two
packed nightspots on the Indonesian island.

7/7 attack: UK-born suicide bombers Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer,
22, Hasib Hussain, 18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, detonated devices on three Tube
trains and a bus, causing carnage and killing 52 people on July 7 2005.

Glasgow Airport attack: On Saturday June 30 2007 a blazing jeep loaded with
propane cannisters was driven into a crowded Glasgow Airport.

Woolwich attack: Fusilier Lee Rigby, 25 - a drummer and machine gunner with the
2nd Battalion Royal Regiment of Fusiliers - was killed outside his barracks in
Woolwich, south-east London, on May 22 2013 by two Islamic extremists.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2015 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Shields Gazette

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

UK medical team flies out to help Tunisia terror attack victims

BYLINE: Press Association

LENGTH: 729  words


A medical liaison team has been dispatched to Tunisia to help those affected by
the beach massacre, which has left at least 15 Britons dead.

Home Secretary Theresa May said the British death toll remains at 15, but the
number is expected to rise as more information comes out.

Speaking after chairing a meeting of the Government's emergency cobra committee
this morning, Mrs May said the Government was also sending a team to look at
security arrangements in the area, which attracts thousands of western tourists
every year.

A total of 38 people were killed in the attack at a beach resort in Sousse on
Friday, while 39 others were wounded.

The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice to warn that further terrorist
attacks in Tunisia are possible and urged people to be vigilant.

Mrs May told reporters: "The figure for the number of confirmed dead remains at
15, but we should expected that that figure is going to rise."

The news comes as Mrs May indicated British officials are struggling to identify
the victims of the Tunisian terror atrocity because few of the holidaymakers
were carrying anything.

Mrs May said Britons gunned down in the "appalling" massacre would not have had
passports or other forms of identification with them on the beach and some
victims were being moved between hospitals in the country.

Mrs May said there was no evidence that gunman Seifeddine Rezgui had chosen the
Sousse resort because of the high number of Britons that flock to the popular
holiday destination.

But the terror threat Britain is facing is becoming more diverse with a
possibility of more spontaneous lone wolf attacks attacks, she added.

Over the last decade about 40 terror plots are believed to have been foiled by
the security services.

Mrs May told BBC One's Andrew Marr Show: "What's important is that the
information is absolutely 100% correct when it is given to a family.

"If you can imagine, these are circumstances, because of the circumstances of
the attack, people won't have had documents with them, they won't necessarily
have had phones.

"Some people are being moved between hospitals, so the team on the ground are
making every effort to ensure that they get accurate information."

Asked if the beach had been targeted because of the high number of British
tourists using it, she replied: "This is still ongoing investigations and we are
working very closely with the Tunisian authorities in relation to this.

"I've seen no evidence so far that this was targeted because there are British
tourists there, but, of course we must recognise this is the most significant
loss of life in a terrorist attacks since 7/7."

Asked about reports that four major plots in London in the last few months have
been halted, Mrs May said: "Yes, a number of plots have been stopped.

"Over the last ten years it's estimated that something like 40 plots have been
disrupted here in the UK.

"The threat has become more diverse over time. It has changed over time. That's
why it's important for us to sustain the counter-terrorism capabilities of the
agencies.

"We see that you have not just those who will plot for some time, perhaps in a
group to undertake a complex attack, but also the possibility of more
spontaneous attacks, these so-called lone wolf attacks."

Mrs May said the government will be introducing a counter-extremism strategy to
tackle radicalisation.

Since December 2013 more than 70,000 pieces of extremist material have been
removed from the internet, she added.

Mrs May said: "We want to work with families and communities so if they are
seeing signs of somebody being radicalised, if they are concerned about the
behaviour perhaps of their son or daughter or perhaps of somebody's friend that
they are actually able to come forward to the authorities and talk to us about
this so we can perhaps stop somebody from going down that path of
radicalisation."

Meanwhile, the number of Irish victims of the Tunisia attack has been officially
confirmed as three.

Ireland's Minister for Foreign Affairs Charlie Flanagan said an Irish couple
missing since Friday's massacre are among the dead.

An Irish mother-of-two, Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath, had already be
named as a victim of the massacre.

The couple, named locally as Laurence and Martina Hayes, both aged in their 50s,
from the town of Athlone in Co Westmeath in the Irish Midlands, were holidaying
in the resort.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NPGZ


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 07:33 PM GMT

US On Alert For Fourth Of July Terror Attack

BYLINE: Sky News US Team

SECTION: MEDIA

LENGTH: 258 words



HIGHLIGHT: Americans should beware of the threat of a terrorist attack in the
lead-up to next weekend's Fourth of July celebrations, a powerful US lawmaker
has said.


  Michael McCaul, chairman of the House of Representatives' Homeland Security
Committee, told Fox News Sunday there had been increased chatter on social media
that suggests terrorists could target the Independence Day celebrations.

The Texas lawmaker said: "I am extremely concerned about the way these Syrian,
ISIS recruiters can use the internet at lightning speeds to recruit followers in
the United States... and then activate them to do whatever they want to do.

"Whether it's military installations, law enforcement or possibly a Fourth of
July event parade."

He noted that a spokesman for the Islamic State had called for attacks during
the Islamic holy month of Ramadan and on the Fourth of July holiday.

"I think given these confluence of events we're being on the cautious side here
to warn the public to remain vigilant - to enjoy the Fourth of July parades, but
remain vigilant during these celebrations," said Mr McCaul.

Federal authorities have warned law enforcement officials nationwide to be on
the look-out for security threats in the coming days.

An FBI intelligence bulletin on Friday said there was no specific or credible
threat of an attack, but warned of the ongoing threats posed by homegrown
extremists.

Such warnings are often issued in advance of major US holidays out of an
abundance of caution.

But following attacks in Tunisia, France and Kuwait, Department of Homeland
Security Secretary Jeh Johnson said law enforcement should be "vigilant and
prepared'' for the Fourth of July celebrations.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               South Wales Argus

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

TUNISIA SHOOTINGS: Blackwood grandmother among those murdered in beach terror
attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 841 words


UPDATE: 8.00pm

A BLACKWOOD grandmother was today revealed to be among those slain in Tunisia.

Trudy Jones, 51, who worked at Highfields Care Home in Blackwood, was murdered
while on a week's holiday at a beach resort in Sousse.

Ms Jones had been due to fly home today and return to work, where she was an
activity coordinator, on Tuesday.

But she never made it home from the trip she was said to have planned for
months, after a maniac gunman unleashed a horrifying terror attack on the
beach-side resort.

Manager of the care home, Shawkat Ilahi, said in a notice to staff: "I am sorry
to have to share this tragic news.



"Trudy Jones, our activity co-ordinator, was one of the unlucky ones whilst away
on holiday in Tunisia.

"We have been informed that unfortunately Trudy Jones is no longer with us. In
these sad moments we all need to support each other."

A photograph of Ms Jones was pinned up on the notice board of the home for
anyone who wished to leave tributes yesterday.

The brother of Ms Jones is understood to have flown out to Tunisia with a female
friend.

A total of 38 people were killed and 39 were wounded in the attack by
Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui.

The 23-year-old Tunisian aviation student disguised himself as a tourist and
began firing at holidaymakers on a beach using the gun he had hidden in a beach
umbrella.

His killing spree targeted western tourists on the beach at the RIU Imperial
Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue and only ended when he was shot dead by police. A
bomb was found on his body.

The so-called Islamic State group has claimed it is behind the attacks and has
reportedly identified Rezgui by his jihadi pseudonym Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani.

On hearing the news Islwyn MP Chris Evans said: "When the news broke of the evil
attack on innocent holidaymakers in Tunisia we knew it was likely that British
citizens were among the casualties.

"The reality of this horrific and brutal attack has now been brought home to our
communities with the news that Trudy Jones of Blackwood is among those murdered.

"My thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends at this difficult
time."

On Facebook messages of condolence for Ms Jones have poured in with one reader
posting: "Young life taken so soon, how awful going on holiday to enjoy yourself
and a tragic thing like this happens."

Pontllanfriath Labour councillor Mike Adams said he was sorry this area was
touched by the tragedy.

"How tragic it is for people hoping to have a couple of weeks relaxing in the
sunshine to instead come up against such a horrible incident and to be caught up
in it themselves with such tragic consequences," he said.

Thousands of British tourists have been returning to the UK following the attack
and The Foreign Office is urging people to be vigilant warning further terrorist
attacks in Tunisia are possible.

First Minister of Wales, Carwyn Jones, said: "It has been shocking to hear the
details of the horrific attack in Tunisia.

"My thoughts are with all those who have been affected by this senseless act of
violence. "The Welsh Government is ready to offer any assistance it can as we
deal with the aftermath of this tragedy."

British police have flown to the beach resort to help identify victims and
consular teams are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected.



UPDATE: 5.35pm

ACCORDING  to the BBC Ms Jones had been due to fly home on Sunday and go back to
work at Highfields Care Home, where she was an activity coordinator, on Tuesday.

Manager of the care home, Shakwat Ilahi, said in a notice to staff: "I am sorry
to have to share this tragic news.

"Trudy Jones our activity co-ordinator was one of the unlucky ones whilst away
on holiday in Tunisia.

"We have been informed that unfortunately Trudy Jones is no longer with us. In
these sad moments we all need to support each other."

On Facebook messages of condolence for Ms Jones have poured in with one reader
posting: "Young life taken so soon, how awful going on holiday to enjoy yourself
and a tragic thing like this happens."



A BLACKWOOD woman is among those murdered in Tunisia, it has emerged.

Trudy Jones has been named as among those murdered while holidaying in the
horrific beach-side attack.

She is understood to have worked at Highfields Care Home, in Blackwood.

Islwyn MP Chris Evans released the following statement after receiving the news.

"When the news broke of the evil attack on innocent holidaymakers in Tunisia we
knew it was likely that British citizens were among the casualties," he said.

"The reality of this horrific and brutal attack has now been brought home to our
communities with the news that Trudy Jones of Blackwood is among those murdered.

"My thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends at this difficult
time."

Pontllanfriath Labour councillor Mike Adams said he was sorry this area was
touched by the tragedy. "How tragic it is for people hoping to have a couple of
weeks relaxing in the sunshine to instead come up against such a horrible
incident and to be caught up in it themselves with such tragic consequences," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 3:49 PM GMT

July 7 anniversary: Events planned to mark decade since worst ever terrorist
attack on British soil

BYLINE: Ramzy Alwakeel

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 288 words


Survivors of the 7/7 bombings and relatives of the 52 who died will join David
Cameron and Boris Johnson for memorial events on the 10th anniversary of the
atrocity, it has been announced.

Final arrangements are being made to mark the date, a decade since the worst
terrorist attack on British soil.

The Mayor of London's office told the Standard details of the memorial events
would be released in the coming days as preparations were still under way.

The occasion is made all the more poignant by this week's terror attacks in
Sousse, Tunisia, in which 15 Brits were killed when an ISIS militant opened fire
at a beach resort - named by the Prime Minister as the worst terrorist strike on
British nationals since 7/7 itself.

Suicide bombers Mohammed Sidique Khan, 30, Shehzad Tanweer, 22, Hasib Hussain,
18, and Jermaine Lindsay, 19, detonated bombs on two Circle line Tubes, a
Piccadilly line train and a number 30 bus.

Twenty-six people died in the bombing at Russell Square on the Piccadilly line
while six died at Edgware Road on the Circle Line and seven died in the Aldgate
Circle line bombing.

Thirteen people died in the bus bomb, which was detonated at Tavistock Square.

A fortnight later, another four would-be suicide bombers launched failed attacks
on the Tube and a bus, leading to police marksmen shooting dead innocent
Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes.

Lindsay's wife Samantha Lewthwaite later fled the UK, reportedly linking up with
the al Qaida-linked Somali Islamic extremist group al-Shabab.

Dubbed the "white widow", she is now one of the world's most wanted women and
has been linked in reports to various terror attacks, including a 2011 plot to
bomb holiday resorts in Kenya.

Additional reporting by Press Association

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Sunday Herald (Glasgow)

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

At least 15 Britons dead in Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: James Martini

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 616 words


AT LEAST 15 Britons are among the 39 holidaymakers killed in the Tunisian beach
massacre, the country's ministry of health confirmed.

A Kalashnikov-wielding student targeted Western tourists as he waged a campaign
of terror in the popular resort of Sousse. So far, Tunisian authorities have
confirmed the nationalities of 10 of the dead, with a Belgian and a German
identified alongside the British victims.

Prime Minister David Cameron has warned that the public should be "prepared for
the fact that many of those killed were British".

Scotland Yard yesterday said  police had travelled to Tunisia to help
investigate the killings and officers are also interviewing tourists returning
at British airports.

Holiday firm Tui, which runs the Thomson and First Choice brands, said that a
number of those who died were its customers.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, a Tunisian aviation student, was said to have
laughed and joked as he targeted British and French tourists and sprayed them
with gunfire. He was shot dead by police.

Extra consular staff along with police and experts from the Red Cross will
arrive in the country today to help the victims and their families.

Cameron, who chaired a second meeting of the Government's emergency Cobra
committee, said his "thoughts and prayers are with the loved ones of those
killed or injured".

He said: "These savage terrorist attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France are a
brutal and tragic reminder of the threat faced around the world from these evil
terrorists."

He added: "We are working with Tunisian authorities to identify the final number
of British casualties, but I'm afraid that the British public need to be
prepared for the fact that many of those killed were British."

Cameron insisted "we will defeat" Islamic extremists waging terror around the
world.

Foreign Office minister Tobias Ellwood also warned the death toll was likely to
rise and said it was "the most significant terrorist attack on the British
people" since the London bombings in July 2005.

Peter Long, joint CEO of Tui Group, said he was "deeply, deeply shocked",
adding: "Our whole organisation is reeling with pain to see the suffering that
has taken place in Tunisia."

He said the company has repatriated 1,000 customers and 5,400 still  remained in
the area, with everything being done to help those who wanted to return to get
on flights. The company was unable to confirm how many of its customers had been
killed or injured in the tragedy.

Travel agents' association Abta said an estimated 20,000 people were currently
on holiday with its members in Tunisia, but there were also others who had
travelled independently.

Islamic State has claimed it is behind the attacks and has reportedly identified
the gunman by his jihadi name Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani.

The worst such attack in Tunisia's history came on the same day a man was found
decapitated after an attack by Islamic extremists on a French  factory and a
Shi'ite mosque in Kuwait was bombed, killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked, they come as IS marks
one year since it declared a caliphate. IS leaders also called for their
followers "to make Ramadan a month of calamities for the non- believers".

Tunisian president Beji Caid Essebsi said: "Once again, cowardly and traitorous
hands have struck Tunisia, targeting its security and that of its children and
visitors."

Harriet Harman, acting Labour leader, said the party's "deepest sympathy and
thoughts" go out to the families and friends of the victims.

"These shocking events, as well as the attacks in France and Kuwait, remind us
of the constant threat the world faces from terrorism, and the need for constant
vigilance."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SHE


                      Copyright 2015 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Sunday Sun

                                 June 28, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

NORTH GRAN KILLED BY ISIS;
Holidaymaker in Tunisia terror attack ; North gran believed to among the dead ;
ISIS ATTACKS CLAIM LIFE OF TYNESIDE WOMAN

BYLINE: Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 471 words


A NORTH gran is believed to be among the 15 Britons killed during a terrorist
attack in Tunisia. Reports last night said the woman from Tyneside was one of
the British tourists killed in the resort of Sousse.

Turn to Page 2 A NORTH woman is believed to be among the 15 Britons killed
during a terrorist attack in Tunisia.

The woman, from Tyneside, was believed to be one of the British tourists killed
on holiday in the resort of Sousse.

The BBC reported she was on holiday with her family and said her son-in-law
con-firmed her death.

Scores of tourists from the region were thought to be in the country at the time
of the attacks on Friday.

Among them was Wallsend teenager Abbie Douglas, who has said she was left
terrified when a gunman opened fire on tourists in the Port El Kantaoui
neighbourhood of the popular resort of Sousse on Friday.

After hearing shots she fled to a hotel room in the Soviva Resort, opposite the
under fire Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba, along with other tourists who barricaded
themselves inside until it was safe to leave.

On Saturday the death toll stood at 38, including 15 Britons, with a further 25
Brits confirmed by the Foreign Office to be among those injured.

And, still shaken, the 19-year-old supermarket worker was preparing to fly home
- along with boyfriend Sam Younganan - aboard one of three emergency planes
chartered by travel company Jet2 in response to the tragedy.

"It's been a nightmare," she said speaking from Enfhida airport. "By 12.30pm
they had made a decision and we were told a coach would be arriving and anyone
who wanted to go home could get on it and there would be flights to Manchester
or Leeds, so it was just a matter of running upstairs and throwing everything in
our bags."

By Saturday afternoon 1,000 holidaymakers had returned to the UK from Tunisia on
special flights, with 5,400 still in the country. Most tour operators, including
Thomson, Thomas Cook and easyJet were scheduling emergency flights to help
evacuate tourists caught up in the terror.

Jet2, which operates flights to the region from Newcastle Airport, confirmed on
Saturday all flights to Tunisia would be cancelled until at least July 5. Abbie
who was just two days into her week-long stay at the resort was preparing for a
lengthy journey home with further coach travel set to be provided from Leeds
Bradford Airport, to Newcastle, following her flight at 6.25pm local time. She
added: "I can't wait to get home, I just want my bed. The attack has left
everyone really nervous - one of the table tennis tables in the hotel lobby fell
over last night and the bang just made everyone panic."

A Thomas Cook flight was due to return to Newcastle Airport from Enfhida airport
at 2pm today. Customers due to travel to Tunisia in the next two days are
advised to contact their tour operator for their options.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A worker walks near the scene of a shooting in Sousse, Tunisia. Inset,
Abbie Douglas

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SSN


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Sunday Sun

                                 June 28, 2015
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

NORTH GRAN KILLED BY ISIS;
Holidaymaker in Tunisia terror attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 37 words


A NORTH gran is believed to be among the 15 Britons killed during a terrorist
attack in Tunisia. Reports last night said the woman from Tyneside was one of
the British tourists killed in the resort of Sousse.

Turn to Page 2

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SSN


                           Copyright 2015 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 28, 2015
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

The beach gunman who killed up to 23 Britons;
Dramatic pictures emerge of Islamist stalking beach with gun It was the 'most
significant terrorist attack on the British people' for 10 years Grieving
families tell of shock and despair after Tunisia horror

BYLINE: PATRICK SAWER; TIM ROSS; ROBERT MENDICK; NICOLA HARLEY ; BEN FARMER

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words


FAMILIES OF the Britons killed or feared dead in the Tunisian terrorist attack
last night spoke of their grief amid fears the toll of British citizens murdered
by an Islamist gunman could rise to as high as 23.

The Foreign Office con-firmed that at least 15 Britons were among the 38
tourists killed on Friday, with a further 20 injured in the attack, several of
them critically. It is the worst loss of British life in a terrorist atrocity
since the London bombings on July 7, 2005, when 52 people were killed, said
Tobias Ellwood, the Foreign Office minister. He added last night: "Sadly, I can
confirm that at least 15 British nationals were killed in yesterday's atrocity,
but I should stress that the number may well rise as several more have been
seriously injured in this horrific attack."

David Cameron also said the country should expect the worst. "We are working
with the Tunisian authorities to identify a final number on the British
casualties, but I'm afraid that the British public need to be prepared for the
fact that many of those killed were British."

The warnings came as pictures were released last night showing the gunman,
Seifeddine Rezgui, walking calmly along the foreshore of the resort in Sousse,
his automatic rifle by his side, moments after he began shooting. It has since
emerged he was also armed with grenades or "homemade bombs" which he threw at
his victims, before he was shot dead by police.

Among the Britons killed was Carly Lovett, 24, from Gainsborough, Lincs, who had
travelled to the resort with her fiancé.

Owen Richards, 16, lost his brother Joel, 19, and uncle Adrian Evans, 49, in the
onslaught which left hundreds of tourists fleeing for their lives. The boys'
grandfather, Patrick Evans was also feared dead.

Relations of missing British tourists last night spoke of their despair at
hearing nothing from them since news of the attack broke.

Daniel Welch, whose grandfather John Welch, 74, from Corsham, Wilts, and his
partner Eileen Swannack, 70, were staying at the Imperial Marhaba hotel when it
was attacked, said his family "can only expect the worst".

He said: "It's just that not knowing. You then start thinking, 'Why that resort?
Why the holidaymakers? Why this place? What was the reason?' You get all sorts
of things running through your mind."

Further details emerged about Rezgui, a 23-year-old electronics student and Real
Madrid supporter from the town of Gaafour, who was a member of an Islamist
society at university and is now known to have posted his support for Islamic
State of Iraq and the Levant (Isil) on social media.

Rafik Chelly, Tunisia's secretary of state for security, said he was previously
unknown to authorities. "He entered by the beach, dressed like someone who was
going to swim, and he had a beach umbrella with his gun in it," he said.

Mr Cameron yesterday led a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee, attended by
the heads of MI5 and MI6; George Osborne, the Chancellor; Theresa May, the Home
Secretary; and Philip Hammond, the Foreign Secretary. He also spoke to Beji Caid
Essebsi, the Tunisian president; François Hollande, the French President, and
Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor. Many of the tourists caught up in the
shootings were from Germany.

By last night, a team of 20 British Red Cross, Foreign Office staff and police
had arrived at the scene of the attack. British security experts may also be
sent to Tunisia.

Intelligence chiefs decided not to raise the threat level to the UK, which
remains set at "severe", meaning that an attack is "highly likely". However,
security was stepped up at major public events over the weekend, including
yesterday's Armed Forces Day celebrations and London's gay Pride march.

Mr Cameron said after the Cobra meeting: "These savage terrorist attacks in
Tunisia, Kuwait and France are a brutal and tragic reminder of the threat faced
around the world from these evil terrorists.

"There's no doubt we face a very severe threat in our country and we have done
for many months and many years, but the level of the threat is identified
independently of government and published in the proper way.

"I will ensure we do all we can to help those affected and to protect people
from this terrorist threat. Our thoughts and prayers are with the loved ones of
those killed or injured in the attack."

He added: "We will do everything necessary to get people home, including those
injured. These were innocent holidaymakers, relaxing and enjoying time with
their friends and families.

"These terrorists murdered them because [they] oppose people and countries who
stand for peace, tolerance and democracy wherever they are in the world. But
these terrorists will not succeed." As he spoke, astonishing stories of survival
amid the carnage at Sousse emerged.

Rita Williams, 76, had a narrow escape as a bullet tore through her pink straw
sun hat. Mrs Williams, of Maesteg, South Wales, suffered a graze on her skull.
She said: "I've been so lucky - I'm still shaking. It was all so frightening."

Tony Callaghan, 63, from North Walsham, who works for Norfolk police, was hit in
the left knee and his wife Christine was also shot. But the couple's glasses
case and bag took the impact of bullets, almost certainly saving her from far
greater injury.

Within hours of the attack, travel firms had begun repatriating thousands of
British tourists from beach resorts in the area. The North African nation is
bracing itself for a devastating blow to its tourism industry, as the Tunisian
government announced plans to deploy troops at vulnerable sites.

According to ABTA, the travel association, there were about 20,000 British
tourists on package holidays in Tunisia at the time of the attack.

Among those caught up in the massacre at the five-star Imperial Marhaba Hotel,
in the popular resort of Port el Kantaoui, were tourists travelling with
Thomson/First Choice. The company sent 10 planes yesterday to repatriate about
2,500 customers, and announced it was cancelling all its holidays to Tunisia
this week.

www.Jet2.com, which has 1,244 passengers in Tunisia, also began sending planes
to collect those who wished to travel home.

But while hundreds of Britons began arriving back yesterday, others were still
stuck in their hotels, waiting desperately for a flight out.

Aaron Smith, 29, from Liverpool, who was on holiday with his girlfriend Morgan,
23, from Burnley, at the Marhaba Royal Salem Hotel, close to where the attacks
took place, said: "Everyone just wants to go home as soon as they can. People
are going crazy, sitting inside waiting."

Some tourists have decided to stay on, including Angela Chambers and Peter
Phillips, from Wales. "I think we feel safer here than last night going to the
airport," said Ms Chambers. Mr Phillips added "we want to see our holiday out."

British police are interviewing many of the returning tourists, looking in
particular for any footage taken on mobile phones.

Metropolitan Police assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing
lead for counter-terrorism, said it was "fairly clear" the location of the
Tunisian attack was chosen because of the number of Europeans present in the
area.

Writing in The Sunday Telegraph, Mr Hammond says: "The brutal slaughter of
innocent British tourists on their sunloungers in Tunisia is a tragic reminder
of the threat we face from Islamic extremism and those inspired by Isil."

Colonel Tim Collins, a former British Army officer who served in the Iraq war,
urged governments not to overreact, but to pursue those responsible with the
full force of the law.

He said: "Had the world, led by the United States, kept its head after 9/11, and
treated Ground Zero as a huge crime scene instead of blundering into a 'war on
terror', I believe the scenes we are witnessing around the world now would not
be happening."

James Brokenshire, the immigration minister, said there was a risk that
extremists could try to gain entry to Britain through the camp of 3,000 migrants
gathered at Calais.

"It is not something we have seen to date but it is something that we remain
absolutely vigilant over. We are calling on the Italians and other southern
Mediterranean states to 'up' their screening and the taking of biometrics and
the like from those arriving on their shores."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Top: the gunman walks along the beach in Tunisia. From left: Carly
Lovett, who has been confirmed dead; brothers Owen and Joel Richards - Owen
survived but Joel was killed; John and Janet Stocker, who are missing; Denis and
Elaine Thwaites, are also missingSKY NEWS/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 9:11 AM GMT

Tunisia gunman Seifeddine Rezgui: 'mixed a devotion for Isil with passion for
Real Madrid football team';
The 23-year-old engineering student who committed the deadliest terror attack
against British citizens since 7/7 had joined the Islamist society at university

BYLINE: By Colin Freeman and Hassan Morajea in Gaafour

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1277 words


The photograph is like countless others released by the Islamic State's
propaganda wing - a young man sits flanked by a pair of Kalashnikovs, grinning
excitedly at the prospect of proving himself in combat.

Yet when Seifeddine Rezgui's turn for martyrdom came, it was not in the tough
battlegrounds of Syria or Iraq, but in a killing field that could scarcely be
easer - a group of unsuspecting tourists lying on sunbeds on a Tunisian beach,
some of whom may not even have seen his face.

· Tunisia attack: 15 Brits confirmed dead in worst act of terrorism since 7/7 -
latest

Nonetheless, by dint of sheer bloodthirstiness alone, his act of "lone wolf"
savagery has guaranteed him a place in history, as the perpetrator of the worst
single act of terrorism against British citizens since the July 7 bombings in
2005. So who exactly was he?

Alarmingly for the Tunisian authorities, the most obvious answer to that
question is that far from being the exalted "Soldier of the Caliphate" that Isil
has hailed him as, he was just an all too typical Tunisian youth.

Interactive: Sousse hotels

According to Tunisia's Prime Minister, Habib Essid, Rezgui was a 23-year-old
engineering student who originally hailed from Gaafour, a drab and unremarkable
town some 50 miles south-west of Tunis. He had never travelled abroad, Mr Essid
said, and was not known by the police to hold extremist views.

"We were all shocked when we heard the news and saw his picture, and his mother
was devastated," added his uncle, Ali Al-Rezgui, speaking to The Telegraph
outside the family's small, whitewashed home in Gaafour on Saturday.

"Yes, he went to mosque and prayed, but just like the other young men, he would
then go to a cafe and play football with his friends. I last saw him on
Thursday, he said 'hello', and then he left that night and went to his friend's
house. We didn't know where he was going, and there were no goodbye's. The
entire family is shocked at the hidden reality of what he was capable of."

Yet like most Arab youngsters these days, Rezgui appears to have been a keen
user of social media. And a Facebook page believed to belong to him paints a
very different picture of his outlook on life. For amid the fan postings about
rap music, Real Madrid and the Tunisia's chances in the Africa Cup, there are
numerous postings in support of Isil, as well as several of their propaganda
videos.

Notably, most of his radical postings appear to have started only early last
year, prior to which he seemed to be more interested in rap music and sharing
jokes. His final entry is New Year 2015, and read: "May God take me out of this
unjust world and perish its people and make them suffer. They just remember you
when they die."

Why Rezgui stopped all his Facebook activity after that date will now be a
matter for the authorities, who on Saturday seized a laptop during a raid on his
family home in Gaafour, during which his parents were reportedly arrested. But
if he was being groomed to carry out an attack, whoever was his handler might
have advised him to stop all online activity well before his planned assault.

That same handler might have also had advance knowledge of March's planned
atrocity at Tunisia's Bardo Museum, in which 19 people died, and have been
anxious that Rezgui did nothing to draw attention to himself in the aftermath.

Quite who those "handlers" were - if indeed he had any - remains unknown as of
yet. But a possible clue may lie in Rezgui's Isil nom de guerre, Abu Yahya al
Qayrawani. The last name is a reference to the Tunisian city of Kairouan, where
Rezgui last year enrolled in a master's degree at the local university. The
ancient city, which sits on the edge of the Sahara desert, was one of the
earliest centres of Sunni Muslim Islamic scholarship, and has long been
considered one of holiest sites in the Muslim world.

More recently, though, it has also been a centre for Islamic radicalism, and
until two years ago was the main gathering place in Tunisia for Ansar al-Sharia,
the radical Islamic group that first sprung up in neighbouring Libya after the
2011 Arab Spring.

Following Ansar al-Sharia's attack on a US embassy compound in Libya in 2012, in
which the consulate, Chris Stevens was killed, it was declared a terrorist group
by Washington. At the time, the Tunisian government chose not to follow suit,
wary of being seen to act in the same authoritarian fashion as the country's
deposed dictator, Zine El Abidine Ben Ali. But in 2013, it too outlawed the
group, after a riot erupted when Tunisian police stopped its followers holding
their annual rally in Kairouan.

Since then, many of its hard core members are believed to fled abroad to fight
with Isil in Syria and Iraq. Indeed, such is the exodus that Tunisia is now
believed to have contributed some 3,000 jihadist fighters to the conflict, more
than any other country.

The irony is that as a Facebook-surfing 20-something, Rezgui was also part of
the exact same generation of young Tunisians who kicked off the Arab world's
biggest ever steps towards democracy.

In Junuary 2011, Facebook-orchestrated street protests overthrew President Ben
Ali, following outrage over the death of a fruit vendor, Mohamed Bouazizi, who
set himself on fire in despair at harassment by local officials over his lack of
a trade permit. That then sparked off copycat Arab Spring revolutions in Egypt,
Libya, Syria and Yemen, all of which hailed tiny Tunisia as their inspiration.

Yet as it turned out, Tunis's web-savvy middle classes were not the only ones
who saw Mr Ben Ali's fall as a chance for change. So too did Islamist parties of
various hues of radicalism, whose religious agenda has earned them strong
support and sometimes near-block votes in Tunisia's more conservative rural
interior.

Both secularists and Islamists now have their share of power in parliament, and
in contrast to other Arab Spring nations, so far the country's efforts at
democracy have been largely successful. All the same, secular politicians have
been assassinated and harrassed, and while radical religious parties have been
subjected to periodic bans and crackdowns, they continue to pose a threat.
Meanwhile, with post-Arab Spring Tunisia still suffering from painfully high
unemployment, the same sense of despair that drove Mohamed Bouazazi to
self-immolation is motivating plenty of other young Tunisian men to give up
their lives for jihad.

Was that the case with Rezgui? His uncle said that the family had been
traumatised in 2010 when Rezgui's younger brother had died in a lightning
strike. But otherwise, he insisted, there had been no sign of anything to worry
about.

"He used to use hair gel and wear the nicest of clothes, and he used to break
dancing," he said. "He even used to go to competitions and things like that in
Tunis, he was well known for that here. He didn't even have a beard, and I've
never seen him with anyone with a beard. We have extremists like that in
Gaafour, but never have I seen him with them. Now he's shooting people with a
Kalashnikov, it's just so confusing."

Whether his parents were similarly in the dark is now a matter for the
authorities, who on Saturday were still questioning his mother and father up in
the capital, Tunis. However, had his parents, his uncle or indeed the police
ever browsed the main page of what appears to be Rezgui's Facebook account, one
particular posting might have given them a very clear inkling. "If jihad is a
crime," he wrote, "the world shall know that I'm a criminal." On Friday, with
his massacre of innocent civilians on the beach, he proved that to the world
beyond all doubt.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 thetimes.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 5:07 PM GMT

Tunisia beach massacre 'worst terror attack since July 7'

BYLINE: Sonia Elks, John Simpson in Sousse

SECTION: AFRICA

LENGTH: 1124 words


Three generations of a single family were today named among at least 15 British
victims of the Islamist gunman in Tunisia in what the foreign minister described
as the "most significant terrorist attack on British people" since the July 7
bombings in London in 2005.

Joel Richards, 22, a talented young sportsman, is thought to have been shot dead
on the beach alongside his uncle Adrian Evans, 49, and his grandfather, Patrick
Evans, 78.

His younger brother Owen, 16, survived after he was grazed by a bullet during
the extremist Seifeddine Rezgui's deadly rampage in the tourist resort of
Sousse.

The family were among those named by mourning friends and family members as
officials confirmed that at least 15 Britons were among the 38 dead. As many as
25 Britons were among the 39 wounded.

Tobias Ellwood, the Middle East minister, warned that the death toll "may well
rise, as several more have been seriously injured".

He added: "This is the most significant terrorist attack on British people since
7/7 and highlights the ongoing threat of Isil."

In updated advice for travellers, the foreign office has warned of the risk of
further terrorist attacks in Tunisia, while thousands of tourists streamed out
of the country over the weekend.

The Queen today expressed her condolences to the families of those killed and
said that she and the Duke of Edinburgh had been "shocked" to learn of the
attack.

In a statement released by Buckingham Palace, she said: "We send our sincere
condolences to the families of thosewho were killed and our deepest sympathy to
the people who are still fighting for their lives in hospital, and those who
have been seriously injured.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with those of all countries who have been affected
by this terrible event."

One British survivor still being treated in intensive care told The Times that
she saw her husband shot dead as he lay next to her.

Cheryl Mellor, 54, who was shot twice, was forced for feign death for 20 minutes
next to the body of her husband, Stephen.

"I wish I had gone as well. It would have been so much easier," she said from
her bed in the Hospital Sahloul. "He's gone and I'm still here."

Ms Mellor said the couple had been doing the crossword on the beach when they
heard a "bang, like an explosion", followed by gunshots.

"Steve said 'Quick, get down'," she said. "We lay under the sun lounger together
saying 'I love you, I love you, I love you'.

"Then I saw him. He pointed the gun at me and he shot me twice, once in the leg,
once in the hand. I thought 'This is it, I'm going to die'.

"Then Steve said 'we've got to go, we've got to run'. That's when he was shot. I
just lay there pretending to be dead."

A doctor who treated Owen Richards said that the teenager describing seeing his
uncle shot in the head by the bullet that had grazed his cheek a moment earlier.
He turned and fled for his life.

"It was only later he found out two other member of his family were killed," he
told the Sun on Sunday.

His brother Joel, a university student and young referee, was described as
"exceptionally talented" in tributes last night.

Birmingham county football association wrote: "A young, talented referee with
the world at his feet, he was highly thought-of and will be sadly missed. Our
thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends at this tragic time."

He also played Gaelic football with James Connollys GFC, of Warwickshire, where
a spokesman said he was an "exceptionally-talented footballer" who represented
both club and county "with conviction" on numerous occasions.

Also named among the dead were Suzanne Davey, 44, and her partner Scott
Chalkley, 42. Their family confirmed that a desperate social media appeal for
news had come to a tragic end when they learned the couple had been killed.

Ms Davey's son, Conor Fulford, wrote on Twitter: "Hi Everyone, Sorry to tell you
we lost my mother Sue Davey tonight but i want to thank everybody that tried to
help me & my family."

He said his mother was a "strong" woman, adding: "Love you always Mom, I've got
my teddy bear you got me tonight, Rest easy xxxx".

Ross Nayler, the son of Mr Chalkey, also posted a statement saying that his
father was "no longer with us".

"We are all trying to come to grips and process with what's happened," he said.

Carly Lovett, 24, a newly-engaged beauty blogger from Gainsborough,
Lincolnshire, was also said to have been killed while on holiday with her
fiancé.

An Irish mother of two children, Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, Co Meath, was
earlier confirmed as among the dead.

It has also emerged that Tony Callaghan, a member of Norfolk Police staff, and
his wife Christine were among those injured. He was shot in the leg while his
wife had her femur shattered.

Charlie Flanagan, the foreign affairs minister, said that British authorities
are in contact with the families of two citizens who are still missing.

Some of those who were left desperately seeking family and friends in Sousse
have criticised the foreign office for what they said was a lack of practical
help and information.

In Tunisia, neighbours have been left reeling at the news that Rezgui had
carried out the attacks as a new photograph emerged showing him strolling calmly
down the beach during the shooting with his gun slung over his body.

Rezgui's uncle said in comments to the <em class="italic">Sunday Telegraph
that<em class="italic" />he was "just like the other young men" who liked to
play football or go to a café after praying in the local mosque.

Monia Riahi, 50, a neighbour and family friend, described him as "good, good,
good!". She told The Observer: "I've known him since he was small. He was never
in trouble with anyone ever. Maybe he was brainwashed or something."

British police have flown to the beach resort to help to identify victims and
consular teams are in hospitals and hotels looking after those affected.

Mark Rowley, assistant commissioner and national policing lead for
counter-terrorism, said it was "fairly clear" that the location of the Tunisian
attack was chosen because of the number of westerners in the area, he added.

The worst such attack in Tunisia's history came on the same day as a man was
found decapitated after an attack by suspected Islamic extremists on a French
factory and a Shia mosque in Kuwait was bombed, killing at least 25 people.

Although the attacks do not appear to be directly linked, they come after Isis
called on its followers "to make Ramadan a month of calamities for the
non-believers".

Last night crowds holding candles and signs reading "peace" gathered for a
demonstration against terror in Sousse.

Tunisia's government has announced that it will post armed guards at hotels and
tourist sites in a security crackdown.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBTTO


                     Copyright 2015 News International Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 9:39 AM  EST

TUNISIA TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 303 words


EDINBURGH, Scotland, June 28 -- The Office of The Scottish Government issued the
following press release:

First Minister comments.

Senior Scottish ministers, including the First Minister and Deputy First
Minister, this afternoon took part in a Scottish Government resilience (SGORR)
meeting, along with officials and senior representatives from Police Scotland,
to discuss the ongoing response to the terrorist attack in Sousse, Tunisia.

Speaking after the meeting, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said:

"This has been a horrifying and senseless act of violence. The perpetrators of
this atrocity do not speak for Muslims, and their actions in the name of Islam
are a perversion of that faith.

"Our heartfelt condolences go to all of those who have lost loved ones in this
horrific attack. My thoughts are also with any families who are worried about
relatives they may not have been able to contact and with all those who have
sustained injuries.

"We understand that a high number of those killed are likely to be UK citizens,
and while there are not so far any confirmed victims from Scotland, we must
prepare ourselves for that possibility.

"The Scottish Government is closely monitoring the situation and we are in
regular contact with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. I would encourage
anyone with any concerns about the welfare of their friends and families to
contact the helpline.

"We stand ready to offer whatever assistance we can, especially as people arrive
back in Scotland from Tunisia in the coming days. I would echo Police Scotland's
advice to remain vigilant and alert and also want to reassure the public that
our counter terrorism arrangements are as robust as possible." For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2015 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               UK Government News

                       June 28, 2015 Sunday 9:35 AM  EST

TUNISIA TERROR ATTACK

LENGTH: 325 words


EDINBURGH, Scotland, June 28 -- The Office of The Scottish Government issued the
following press release:

Scottish Government resilience meeting to discuss ongoing response.

The First Minister has chaired a further Scottish Government resilience (SGORR)
meeting following the terrorist attack in Sousse, Tunisia.

Deputy First Minister John Swinney, Justice Secretary Michael Matheson, External
Affairs Minister Humza Yousaf, the Solicitor General and senior Police Scotland
representatives also took part in the meeting to discuss the ongoing response to
the attack and support for Scots affected.

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said:

"Today I convened a further Scottish Government resilience meeting to ensure
that in Scotland we doing everything we can to provide support those who may be
affected by this senseless attack and their families.

"I would like to offer my heartfelt sympathies to everyone who may have lost a
loved one in this attack. We are prepared for the possibility that there may be
Scottish victims among those who have lost their lives, but we have not yet
received official confirmation of this.

"The threat level for the UK remains at severe and counter terrorism measures
are in place to respond to this. The advice from Police Scotland is to stay
vigilant and alert.

"We are working closely with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Police
Scotland and other partners to ensure those have been caught up in the violence
or are concerned about relatives who are missing have all of the advice, help
and information they need. I want to reassure families that we are doing
everything that we can to make sure they have this support. I would also
encourage anyone with any concerns about the welfare of their friends and
families to please contact the official helpline number which is 0207 008 0000."
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                        Copyright 2015 HT Media Limited.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                        June 28, 2015 Sunday 8:41 PM GMT

Tunisia hotel attack: Cardiff couple who fled terrorist gunman and got engaged
hours later return home safely;
Shelley Hay and Ben Milton described the 'stampede' as they fled the beach where
a Kalashnikov-wielding killer shot dead dozens of Western tourists

BYLINE: By walesonline

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 300 words


A couple who got engaged just hours after escaping the Tunisian terror attack
safely returned home to Cardiff.

Shelley Hay and Ben Milton arrived in Cardiff around lunchtime on Saturday and
are planning on spending time with their family over the next couple of days.

The pair got engaged just hours after fleeing the beach where the terrorist
gunman opened fire.

Shelley Hay, 25, and fiance Ben Milton, 24, of Cardiff, who got engaged at the
Royal Kenz hotel in Sousse, Tunisia just hours after escaping the IS gunman.

They grabbed their belongings and ran after seeing sand flying up in the air as
shots peppered the beach where they were relaxing just moments before.

As the couple ran to their hotel for safety, its gates began to close but
luckily, they managed to get to their room and lock themselves in. 'I went to do
it anyway and not let them stop me'

And just hours later, in a show of defiance to the terrorists, Ben proposed to
Shelley.

He said: "I planned to propose on Friday, which was Shelley's birthday, but
after the events, I wasn't sure whether to go ahead with it or not.

"But a couple of hours later, I went to do it anyway and not let them stop me."

Shelley said: "It was just a normal day. I said to Ben: 'I'm going to pop down
to the water's edge to cool off', but next thing I heard was fireworks. 'The
whole beach was running'

"I looked to the left of me and the whole beach was running. I've never seen
anything like it in my entire life.

"We just ran. We grabbed as many belongings as we could and ran up to the hotel,
straight into our room and locked ourselves there.

"We stayed in there then until we had found out what happened."

Ben and Shelley were put on an emergency flight home from Tunisia to Manchester
Airport overnight and arrived back home in Cardiff on Saturday lunchtime.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                                 June 28, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TEARS IN THE SAND;
The most significant terrorist attack on the British people since the 7/7
bombings a decade ago

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 28 words


At least 15 Britons confirmed dead.

'We must prepare ourselves' in Wales says Carwyn PAGES 2&3 Hero human shield dad
'doesn't want his kids to worry' says fiancée PAGES 4&5

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WOS


                    Copyright 2015 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

Jet2 cancels flights between Tunisia and Leeds following terror attack

LENGTH: 230  words


All flights from Leeds Bradford Airport to Tunisia have been cancelled.

A statement from Jet2.com said that they had received no reports of injuries or
fatalities among their customers but that it was working to bring all customers
home.

The statement read: "We will now be cancelling all flights and holidays to
Tunisia up to and including 5th July 2015.  Jet2holidays customers will be
offered a full refund or the option to change their booking without an amendment
fee.  Jet2.com customers will be given a full refund.

"In addition, those customers with Jet2holidays booked up to and including 31st
July 2015 will also be allowed to change their booking without an amendment fee.

"In the meantime, Jet2.com flights returned yesterday from Enfhida  to Leeds
Bradford and Manchester Airports.  Further flights will be departing today.
Customers wishing to return to the UK should contact the freephone number
below."

Customers in Tunisia are being contacted via text message, mobile and email to
update them regarding travel details.

"We can confirm that we have no reports of injuries or fatalities among Jet2.com
or Jet2holidays customers," it continued.

"We would like to extend our sincere condolences to the families and friends of
those affected by this appalling incident in Tunisia."

UK customers with Tunisia related queries or concerned relatives should call
0113 457 0550.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

UPDATED: Two people from Yorkshire among those killed in Tunisia terror attack

LENGTH: 618  words


A MAN from Goole and a woman from Hull are among the 15 confirmed dead in the
Tunisian terror attack, with the majority of the 39 victims said by the Prime
Minister to be British.

Bruce Wilkinson, 72 from Goole,  and Claire Windass,  54, from Bransholme in
Hull, were both killed.

Mrs Windass was on the beach with her husband when the attack happened. Mr
Windass has reportedly survived and is thought to have returned home to the UK.

A statement released by Mr Wilkinson's family today said: "We are devastated at
the loss of Bruce, who was a devoted husband, father and grandfather. Bruce was
a loving family man, and in his working life worked to support the care of
others.

"He was a kind and compassionate man, with a dry sense of humour.

"He was fun-loving, and will be deeply missed by friends and family alike.

"The family would like to thank everyone who has supported them since the tragic
of events of last Friday, and we respectfully ask to be left in peace to
grieve."

The family issued a photograph of Mr Wilkinson, who was 72, with his wife Rita
when they were on holiday at a different Tunisian resort in 2013.

According to reports, the grandfather was retired having worked at Drax power
station.

The family released the statement through their MP Andrew Percy.

Mr Percy, the Conservative MP for Brigg and Goole, had earlier offered his
condolences through social media.

He posted on Twitter: "Sad to learn yesterday of the death of a constituent in
Tunisia. With names now released I am sure all our thoughts are with family
here."

The impact of the terrorist attack is being felt across the country today as the
identities of those who lost their lives emerge.

But there has also been relief for those able to find out that their loved ones
out in Tunisia are safe.

Carol Mulhall, from Doncaster, is among those having finally heard that her
parents Margaret and Dougie Lamb are safe.

She had shared their photos with the BBC after failing to get hold of them
following the atrocity .

Someone at the British Embassy in Tunisia recognised the couple and made contact
with Ms Mulhall via Facebook.

She said: "I have never felt so thankful for anything in my life."

The Queen has sent her condolences to the families of those killed in the
Tunisian beach massacre, saying the brutal attack had left her and the Duke of
Edinburgh "shocked".

The monarch also sent her "deepest sympathy" to those injured in Friday's brutal
slaughter in Sousse which left at least 15 Britons dead.

As tributes were paid to the victims by family and friends, Buckingham Palace
released a statement from the Queen saying: "Prince Philip and I were shocked to
learn of the attack on British tourists in Tunisia on Friday.

"We send our sincere condolences to the families of those who were killed and
our deepest sympathy to the people who are still fighting for their lives in
hospital, and those who have been seriously injured.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with those of all countries who have been affected
by this terrible event."

Theresa May suggested that British officials were facing difficulties in
identifying the victims because few of the holidaymakers were carrying anything
with them.

The Home Secretary said Britons gunned down in the "appalling" massacre would
not have had passports or other forms of identification with them on the beach
and some victims were being moved between hospitals in the country.

She told BBC One's Andrew Marr Show: "The figure of confirmed dead at the moment
remains at 15 but we are expecting that to rise."

Investigators have revealed they are looking for at least one more accomplice,
with an Interior Ministry spokesman telling the Associated Press they are sure
that Rezgui had help.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

UPDATED: British death toll from terror attack expected to double to 30

LENGTH: 621  words


The British death toll in the Tunisian beach massacre is expected to double to
at least 30, sources have said.

The latest figure comes after Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond warned that it
was highly likely a "significant number" of victims yet to be identified would
be British.

A total of 38 people were killed when gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire on a
beach in the Sousse resort on Friday, with the the Foreign Office already
confirming 15 of them were from Britain.

At a briefing following an emergency meeting of cobra, Home Secretary Theresa
May also said the British deaths figure was expected to rise as more information
comes out.

Three Irish people are also among the dead.

Mr Hammond said there had been delays in identifying victims because many were
"dressed for the beach, not carrying ID physically on them".

He added: "There are a significant number of victims who have not been
positively identified at this time and it is highly likely that a significant
proportion of them will be British."

He said it was "extraordinarily difficult" to predict where the next attack will
happen and was no more likely to be in Tunisia than in a European city.

"Our agencies have been very frank about this over a long period of time now,
they cannot guarantee that we will be safe from this kind of self-radicalising
lone-wolf attack. It is the most difficult type of attack to detect and predict
and therefore the most difficult kind to protect against."

Investigators have revealed they are looking for at least one more accomplice,
with an Interior Ministry spokesman in Tunisia telling the Associated Press they
are sure that Rezgui had help.

Mrs May said earlier today there was no evidence that Rezgui had chosen the
Sousse resort because of the high number of Britons that flock to the popular
holiday destination.

But the terror threat Britain is facing is becoming more diverse with a
possibility of more spontaneous lone wolf attacks attacks, she added.

Over the last decade about 40 terror plots are believed to have been foiled by
the security services.

Asked if the beach had been targeted because of the high number of British
tourists using it, she replied: "This is still ongoing investigations and we are
working very closely with the Tunisian authorities in relation to this.

"I've seen no evidence so far that this was targeted because there are British
tourists there, but, of course we must recognise this is the most significant
loss of life in a terrorist attacks since 7/7."

Asked about reports that four major plots in London in the last few months have
been halted, Mrs May said: "Yes, a number of plots have been stopped.

"Over the last ten years it's estimated that something like 40 plots have been
disrupted here in the UK.

"The threat has become more diverse over time. It has changed over time. That's
why it's important for us to sustain the counter-terrorism capabilities of the
agencies.

"We see that you have not just those who will plot for some time, perhaps in a
group to undertake a complex attack, but also the possibility of more
spontaneous attacks, these so-called lone wolf attacks."

Mrs May said the government will be introducing a counter-extremism strategy to
tackle radicalisation.

Since December 2013 more than 70,000 pieces of extremist material have been
removed from the internet, she added.

Mrs May said: "We want to work with families and communities so if they are
seeing signs of somebody being radicalised, if they are concerned about the
behaviour perhaps of their son or daughter or perhaps of somebody's friend that
they are actually able to come forward to the authorities and talk to us about
this so we can perhaps stop somebody from going down that path of
radicalisation."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

UPDATED: Families' grief for beach terror attack victims from Yorkshire

LENGTH: 748  words


FAMILY and friends of two Yorkshire victims of the Tunisian beach massacre have
told of their grief and shock at the deaths as Scotland Yard mounted its biggest
counter-terrorism operation since the 7/7 bombings.

There were at least 15 Britons among the 39 people killed in Seifeddine Rezgui's
attack on holiday makers in the resort of Sousse two days ago.

And reports tonight suggest up to 30 of those killed could be British.

Theresa May suggested British officials were having difficulty identifying
victims because so many holidaymakers were not carrying anything on them when
they were killed.

It has emerged that 72-year-old grandfather Bruce Wilkinson, from Goole, and
Claire Windass, 54, a mother, from Hull, were among those who died.

Rezgui targeted western tourists with a Kalashnikov rifle on the beach outside
the RIU Imperial Marhaba and Bellevue hotels on Friday. His killing spree  only
ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his body.

Family members of the victims from Yorkshire have paid tribute to them. In a
statement, issued through Goole's MP Andrew Percy, Mr Wilkinson's family said:
"We are devastated at the loss of Bruce, who was a devoted husband, father and
grandfather.

"Bruce was a loving family man, and in his working life worked to support the
care of others.

"He was a kind and compassionate man, with a dry sense of humour. He was
fun-loving, and will be deeply missed by friends and family alike. The family
would like to thank everyone who has supported them since the tragic of events
of last Friday."

The family issued a photograph of Mr Wilkinson with his wife Rita on a holiday
at a different Tunisian resort from 2013.

Mrs Windass's family and friends were also coming to terms with their loss.

She was on the beach with her husband when the attack happened. Her husband Jim,
66, has returned home from Tunisia. Speaking from their home in Hull his son
Steven, 29 said: "My Dad got back in the early hours of this morning. He just
wants to sleep. "He is too upset to talk to anyone right now." A friend of Mrs
Windass's daughter, Eve Marshall, said: "Claire was the loveliest lady, one of
the nicest ladies you would ever meet. I heard the news on Friday - so tragic. I
just can't believe she's gone. I was  absolutely devastated when I heard."

Survivors of the attack have also relived the horror of their ordeal. Among them
was Tom Richards, a 22-year-old Leeds University graduate who suffered a wrist
injury as Rezgui sprayed bullets inside the Imperial Marhaba hotel.

He was with his mother, Sam, by the hotel pool when they heard gunfire coming
from the beach and ran inside.

But Rezgui followed them up the stairs, killing two tourists on the way, before
firing several shots. "He looked right at me - I thought I was dead," Mr
Richards said. "I don't know why he stopped. He could have killed everybody."

Scotland Yard said more than 600 officers were involved in what was its largest
counter-terrorism operation since the 7/7 bombings.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley said 16 detectives and forensic experts were
already in Tunisia with almost 400 meeting survivors at UK airports to identify
possible witnesses.

The Queen has sent her condolences to the families of those killed, saying the
brutal attack had left her and the Duke of Edinburgh "shocked". She also sent
her deepest sympathy to those injured.

As tributes were paid to the victims by family and friends, Buckingham Palace
released a statement from the Queen saying: "Prince Philip and I were shocked to
learn of the attack on British tourists in Tunisia on Friday.

"We send our sincere condolences to the families of those who were killed and
our deepest sympathy to the people who are still fighting for their lives in
hospital, and those who have been seriously injured.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with those of all countries who have been affected
by this terrible event."

There has been an agonising wait for many waiting to hear news of their
relatives but there has also been relief for those able to find out that their
loved ones out in Tunisia are safe.

Carol Mulhall, from Doncaster, is among those having finally heard that her
parents Margaret and Dougie Lamb are alright.

She had shared their photos with the BBC after failing to get hold of them
following the atrocity .

Someone at the British Embassy in Tunisia recognised the couple and made contact
with Ms Mulhall via Facebook.

She said: "I have never felt so thankful for anything in my life."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              June 28, 2015 Sunday

UPDATED: Yorkshire man confirmed among the dead in Tunisia terror attack

LENGTH: 600  words


A man from Goole is said to be among the 15 confirmed dead in the Tunisian
terror attack, with the majority of the 39 victims said by the Prime Minister to
be British.

Bruce Wilkinson, from Goole,  is widely reported to have been killed in the
attack.

The town's MP Andrew Percy, tweeted: "Sad to learn yesterday of the death of a
constituent in Tunisia. With names now released I am sure all our thoughts are
with family here."

There was relief for Carol Mulhall, from Doncaster, who finally heard her
parents Margaret and Dougie Lamb were safe.

She had shared their photos with the BBC after failing to get hold of them
following the atrocity and someone at the embassy in Tunisia recognised the
couple and made contact with Ms Mulhall via Facebook.

She said: "I have never felt so thankful for anything in my life."

Theresa May suggested that British officials were facing difficulties in
identifying the victims because few of the holidaymakers were carrying anything
with them.

The Home Secretary said Britons gunned down in the "appalling" massacre would
not have had passports or other forms of identification with them on the beach
and some victims were being moved between hospitals in the country.

She told BBC One's Andrew Marr Show: "The figure of confirmed dead at the moment
remains at 15 but we are expecting that to rise."

David Cameron warned that the public needs to be prepared for the fact that
"many of those killed" in the "savage" Tunisian shooting were Britons.

He spoke as reports from Tunisia suggested that the UK death toll had risen to
eight out of 39 people killed in the popular resort of Sousse.

Mr Cameron said a "full deployment team" of consular staff, police and experts
from the Red Cross would arrive in the North African country today to help the
victims and their families and the Government was doing "all we can to" help
them.

Speaking in Downing Street, he said: "These savage terrorist attacks in Tunisia,
Kuwait and France are a brutal and tragic reminder of the threat faced around
the world from these evil terrorists."

Five of the dead have so far been confirmed as Britons by Foreign Secretary
Philip Hammond, as he warned that number could rise due to the popularity of the
area with tourists from the UK.

Tunisian PM Habib Essid has since reportedly told a news conference that the
majority of victims were British, followed by Germans, Belgians and other
nationalities.

Terror group Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack in which a
young man pulled out a Kalashnikov hidden in a beach parasol and shot at
sunbathers in Sousse.

SITE Intel Group, which monitors the jihadist threat, tweeted: "#ISIS claimed
credit for the Tunisia hotel attack in Sousse and identified the attacker as Abu
Yahya al-Qayrawani."

A

FACTFILE:

o Sousse is a city on the east coast of Tunisia, about 87 miles (140km) south of
the capital, Tunis.

o Around 1.2 million tourists visit Sousse every year, drawn by the hotels,
sandy beaches and culture.

oHotel complexes with 40,000 beds span from the old city to the Port El Kantaoui
and the city is home to a Unesco-protected mosque, as well as a historic medina.

oBoujaafar Beach stretches from the Gulf of Hammamet several miles north to Port
El Kantaoui - a purpose-built resort with dozens of hotels including the El
Mouradi Palm Marina, El Mouradi Palace and Riu Imperial Marhaba.

Read more...

{http://www.yorkshirepost.co.uk/news/main-topics/general-news/british-woman-kill
ed-in-tunisia-shootings-1-7164296 | March 2015: Yorkshire woman dies in Tunisia
terror attack | March 2015: Yorkshire woman dies in Tunisia terror attack}

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NLYP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Basingstoke Gazette

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

UPDATED: Tributes paid to Tadley man 'killed in Tunisia terror attack'

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 597 words


TRIBUTES have been paid to a man in Tadley who is thought to be one of the
British people who died in a terror attack in Tunisia last week.

David Thompson, of The Green, Tadley has been named locally as being one of the
victims of the terrorist attack on a beach near Sousse last Friday.

Thirty-eight people lost their lives in the attack carried out by Seifeddine
Rezgui and thirty of those victims are expected to be confirmed as British.

In a statement released by Hampshire Constabulary this afternoon, Mr Thompson's
family asked for privacy at "this extremely difficult time".

Neighbours have told The Gazette that David, who was 80, was on holiday in
Tunisia with his partner Anne at the time of the attack and they described him
as a "very active person".

Claire Chambers, 58, said she would exchange Christmas cards with the couple,
adding: "It is a huge tragedy and I think the other (sad) thing is he was very
fit and went running. He was incredibly fit.

"It is just dreadful and I don't know how the witnesses of it would get over
that.

"People who didn't lose anybody also experienced being over there. They were so
far from safety and the beach was close to the hotel and he went into the hotel
and it is just awful.

"It is truly dreadful and you don't imagine it to happen so close to home. It
has been quite a shock. It is just so sad."

Other neighbours described the attack as "tragic" and a "sad situation" and said
it was sad that someone so fit and active has been killed.

David Leeks, chairman of Tadley Town Council said that they would observe a
one-minute silence at 12noon at St Paul's Church, in The Green on Friday.

He added: "You don't expect something like this to happen so close to home. It
is very, very sad.

"You hope it will never happen and our thoughts go out to his family and friends
at this very sad loss.

"It is a very sad loss for the community and our thoughts are with the family
and the town council sends our deepest sympathy."

In a statement, North West Hampshire MP Kit Malthouse said he was "horrified at
the truly shocking news of the shootings in Tunisia, and to hear that one of the
victims is David Thompson, one of my constituents from Tadley".

He added: "His family, indeed every family and loved one going through this
terrible time, are in my thoughts. They have my deepest sympathies.

"We must now do everything we can to assist those in need. Families need to
receive information and support and the deceased and injured need to be brought
home as quickly as possible and I welcome the statement by the Prime Minister in
the House yesterday confirming the enormous effort underway to help everyone
affected."

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has not confirmed the identity of any of the
British victims.

In a statement in the House of Commons yesterday, Prime Minister David Cameron
said: "It is with great sadness that I have to tell the House that we now know
at least 18 British nationals have been killed, with more injured and the death
toll is likely to rise still further.

"Mr Speaker these were innocent British holidaymakers, people who had saved up
for a special time away with their friends and family, and who suddenly became
the victims of the most brutal terrorist attack against British people for many
years.

"I am sure the whole House will join me in sending our deepest condolences to
the families and friends of all those who have lost loved ones. And I know the
whole country will want to share in a moment of remembrance."

A minute's silence will be held across the country on Friday to remember the
victims of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Kenyan police step up patrols after terror attacks in Somalia, Tunisia

LENGTH: 373 words


Text of report by Cyrus Ombati entitled "Police step up patrols after terror
attacks" published by Kenyan privately-owned daily newspaper The Standard
website on 29 June

Police patrols have been enhanced in various parts of the country following
terror attacks in Somalia, Tunisia, Kuwait and France that left dozens of people
dead.

Officials revealed there were intelligence reports terror cells planned to
attack social joints hence the need to step up security. Neighbouring countries
such as Uganda and Tanzania are also said to be on high alert.

Police increased their presence in public places such as churches, supermarkets
and malls, which have previously been targeted by terrorist affiliated to the
Al-Shabab militant group.

In Uganda, Inspector General of Police Gen Kale Kayihura said they had increased
vigilance as he asked the public to report any suspicious person or activities
to the police.

"Proprietors of vulnerable public places such as malls, hotels, places of
entertainment, markets, parks, schools, churches and mosques should work closely
with security agencies as we activate counter terrorism measures to ensure the
places are safe," said Kayihura.

Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery has also asked for public support to fend off
potential terrorist attacks.

"We are all over, but we need public participation to ensure total safety," he
Nkaissery.

Al-Shabab claimed responsibility for an attack at a military camp in southern
Somalia on Friday [26 June] that left over 50 soldiers dead at a camp. There
have also been several other attacks in Somalia in the last week that have also
left scores dead.

Nkaissery said police arrested two Tanzanians at Isebania on the Kenya-Tanzania
border on Friday as they attempted to recruit Kenyan women to join Al-Shabab.

He said they had also arrested a man, whose photograph had been circulated in
the media for taking part in the 14 June dawn attack on Baure military camp in
Lamu County [coastal Kenya].

He said the three are among 57 people nabbed over terror-related activities
since the 2 April Garissa University College attack.

Nkaissery said the 57 include 48 foreigners arrested in Garissa, Mandera and
Wajir counties.

Source: The Standard website, Nairobi, in English 29 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Arab League slams Tunisia's Sousse terrorist attack

LENGTH: 114 words


Text of report by Egyptian state-run news agency MENA

Cairo, 29 June: The Arab League (AL) condemned the terrorist attack that
targeted the Tunisian city of Sousse.

The attack left dozens dead and injured.

In a statement issued at the end of its urgent meeting at the level of permanent
representatives on Monday [29 June], the AL offered condolences to the Tunisian
government, people as well as the families of the victims.

It also hoped a speedy recovery for the injured.

The AL stressed its support to Tunisia in its war against terrorism, urging the
international community to back the Arab efforts exerted to combat extremism.

Source: MENA news agency, Cairo, in English 1521gmt 29 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Official says 11 terror attacks foiled in Kazakhstan since 2014

LENGTH: 163 words


Text of report by privately-owned Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency

Astana, 29 June: Cooperation and exchange of information between special law
enforcement bodies of Kazakhstan and relevant services of foreign countries have
helped to prevent 11 terror attacks in the country's territory since 2014.

"Exchange of information has allowed special law enforcement bodies to prevent
11 terrorist attacks (in the country - Interfax-Kazakhstan) since 2014," said
Sergey Shveykin, first deputy head of the headquarters of the anti-terror centre
of Kazakhstan's National Security Committee. Shveykin was speaking at a regional
conference of Central and South Asian countries on countering violent extremism,
which was held in Astana today.

Criminal intentions of Kazakh and foreign citizens returning and coming to
Kazakhstan from terrorist hotbeds were also foiled in association with foreign
partners, he said.

Source: Interfax-Kazakhstan news agency, Almaty, in Russian 1110 gmt 29 Jun 15

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 7:33 AM GMT

Belfast couple tell of Tunisia beach attack terror as tourists ran for their
lives

BYLINE: By Noel McAdam

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 347 words


Two Belfast grandparents have told how they ran for their lives as a killer
opened fire on tourists on a beach in Tunisia.

Robert and Wilma McKenzie were just 100 yards from the gunman when he opened
fire, killing 38 people.

They had been enjoying a two-week break in Sousse when terrified tourists came
running towards them, telling them to flee.

The couple, who have four children and six grandchildren, arrived back home in
south Belfast on Saturday and revealed they had not heard the gunfire.

"I didn't hear the shooting because we were sitting beside a big speaker on the
beach where they were holding an aqua aerobics class," Mr McKenzie said.

"A minute before, two beautiful horses came down past us with police officers on
them. I asked for a picture of them and went back to my sunlounger.

"The next thing the horses came flying down the beach. Suddenly there was
shouting telling us 'get off the beach, get off the beach'.

"We just ran to our hotel."

The couple have holidayed in the country around a dozen times over the last six
or seven years because they say the "absolutely beautiful people look after you
so well".

And an Irish couple have said it was a miracle they were not injured or killed
in the attack which claimed the lives of their new friends Larry and Martina
Hayes from Westmeath.

"Anthony and Betty Tunstead, from Ballymun in Dublin were on holiday with her
sister Mary and her husband Denis.

"They were due to switch hotels for the second week of their holiday and believe
that's what saved them.

"Every day we sat on the same sunbeds that were kept for us, but on Friday we
said there was no point as we were changing hotels, other than that he would
have massacred us.

"Or if we had been down checking out on time we would have been killed too," Mrs
Tunstead said.

Mr Tunstead was the first of his party of four to realise what was happening.

"I wasn't 30 yards from him. He just came from nowhere and jumped up onto the
marble parapet in the lobby," he said.

"He was roaring and shouting at the top of his head and letting the gun go
off... I was terrified to move."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 6:19 PM GMT

Ex-Birmingham City player Denis Thwaites and his wife confirmed dead in Tunisian
terror attacks;
Ex-Blues players describe former team-mate as 'a lovely bloke' after he and his
wife were killed in Tunisia attack

BYLINE: By Jasbir Authi

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 864 words


A former Blues teenage prodigy and his wife have been confirmed as the latest
victims of the Tunisian beach massacre.

The family of Denis Thwaites, 70, and his wife Elaine, 69, had not heard from
them since the slaughter on the sand in Sousse.

The couple had texted home to say they had arrived safely on Wednesday, and were
staying at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel.

But they had not been in contact since Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine
Rezgui, 23, targeted Western tourists on the beach.

Their relatives had been frantically searching for information using social
media.

Winger Denis, who broke into the Birmingham City first team at the age of 16,
and Elaine were reported on Saturday to be recovering in hospital after the
atrocity.

But those hopes were tragically ill-founded and short-lived. Their family had
been misinformed.

On Monday, it was confirmed that the couple had perished in the atrocity.

Writing on Facebook, the couple's daughter Lindsey and son-in-law Daniel
Clifford, from Blackpool, said: "There is now a void in our lives that will
never be filled, but your thoughts and words will keep Lindsey and I strong at
this most difficult time. Thank you.

"Mum and Dad were the kindest, caring, loving parents any daughter could wish
for. Rest in peace now my angels."

Earlier on Monday, Blackpool North MP Paul Maynard confirmed to the Commons that
two of his constituents had died in the attack.

And Gordon Marsden, MP for Blackpool South, tweeted: "Very sad to hear Denis and
Elaine Thwaites among those killed in the terrorist attack in Sousse -
condolences to their family."

Denis was originally from Stockton, while his wife was from Kings Heath. He
first appeared in Birmingham City's first team as a 16-year-old in 1961, and
turned professional the following year. The talented player went on to play
several games in the First Division at the start of the 1962-63 season.

His last appearance for the first team came in the 1971-72 season, and he
retired from professional football in 1972 at the age of 27.

A spokesperson for Birmingham City said: "We are deeply shocked and saddened by
the death of former player Denis Thwaites and his wife Elaine in the Tunisian
terrorist attack.

"Our thoughts are with Denis' family. The Club also offers its condolences to
all who are mourning loved ones due to this atrocity."

Described as incredibly gifted, Denis suffered from severe attacks of nerves and
found it difficult to play in front of large crowds.

But he still played 87 times for Blues, scoring 18 goals. In the 1965-66 season
he notched nine goals, finishing third top scorer.

His team-mates included Stan Lynn, Jimmy Bloomfield, Geoff Vowden, Ron Wylie and
Bobby Thomson.

Thomson, now 78, who lives in Winson Green, said: "I remember Denis was a lovely
bloke, a cracking player.

"He had so much speed and so much skill. He was just a bit shy.

"He played some great games for Blues. He did get into the first team eventually
and he was a great player.

"He was the sort of bloke who wouldn't hurt anyone. It's been a few years since
I saw him.

"Last time I saw him was at a reunion. We were both due to have another reunion
on July 18 to celebrate 140 years of the club at some place on Broad Street."

Former team-mate Garry Pendrey said he was stunned by the news and described
Denis as a "lovely, lovely man".

The former captain and manager said: "It is unbelievable.

"He was the equivalent of Trevor Francis in his time, he really was.

"Denis was a terrific player, he had tremendous ability. He could go past
people, score goals.

"Unfortunately, he wasn't really able to reproduce his talents on a consistent
basis, he had a problem with nerves. But he was some player, and a lovely,
lovely man."

Another ex-Blues legend, Malcolm Page, 68, who now lives in Solihull, said Denis
helped him settle into the club when he moved from Mid-Wales to join the team as
an apprentice professional footballer aged 15.

"He helped me with his comradeship," said Malcolm. "Having a friend like him
helped me. He came from Stockton and the club moved his family so they were with
him.

"His father was a general handyman at the club."

He revealed he became "big friends" with Denis: "Denis was one of those lovely
blokes, we used to spend a lot of time together.

"I used to go to his home and I knew his parents very well. We became very
close. He must have been at Birmingham City for a number of years before he
left.

"I felt devastated when I heard this. I remembered the days when we were close
together. He was quite a shy fella in so many ways."

The chairman of the Birmingham City Football Club's Former Players Association,
Tom Ross, said he was always impressed with Denis's kind character.

Mr Ross, from Sutton Coldfield, said: "When I met him, I realised what a
thoroughly nice individual he was.

"He was an absolutely grounded individual. It's an absolute tragedy. He never
had a bad word to say about anybody

"I'm devastated - the world has gone bonkers."

Denis also played briefly for Rover FC (Solihull) in the mid-70s. After ending
his playing career he became a hospital porter in Blackpool.

He is the uncle of former Kidderminster Harriers and West Bromwich Albion
left-back Steve Lilwall.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 3:47 PM GMT

Football supporters flock to pay tribute to Walsall fans killed in Tunisia
terror attack;
Shrine in memory of murdered Joel Richards, Adrian Evans and Patrick Evans is
created outside club's Banks's Stadium

BYLINE: By birminghammail

LENGTH: 514 words


Friends of three Walsall football fans from the same family killed in the
Tunisia terrorist atrocity have laid down a makeshift shrine of club scarves in
their memory.

Dozens of supporters of various football clubs gathered at Walsall FC's Banks's
Stadium to pay their respects to season ticket-holders Joel Richards, 19, and
his uncle, Adrian Evans, 49.

Patrick Evans, 78, also died in Friday's mass shooting in Sousse, while Joel's
16-year-old brother Owen survived.

Tributes to the three men placed outside Walsall FC's main entrance included
scarves and shirts from West Ham, Bristol Rovers and Shrewsbury Town.

A scarf representing German side Hannover 96 was also left at the stadium
alongside flowers bearing messages of condolence.

Among those who gathered outside the club's main reception to place personal
tributes was Ross Adabo, 19, an old schoolfriend and football team-mate of Joel.
Tributes laid at Bescot Stadium, home of Walsall FC, for victims of the Tunisia
terror attacks

He said: "We can't believe what's happened. It's horrible, absolutely
devastating. I knew his uncle and his grandad too and they were all lovely
people.

"Big respect goes to the club too because it's a nice way to remember the family
and get everyone together to pay their respects. It's a great gesture and we're
grateful to them."

In a statement, the Black Country club said: "The Walsall FC Family is in
mourning following the tragic loss of three supporters in the Tunisia terror
attacks.

"The thoughts of everyone associated to Walsall Football Club go out to their
family and friends at this most difficult of times.

"The club will do everything it can to support the family at this very difficult
time and tributes can be laid here at Banks's Stadium up until Friday.

"It is at times like this when the football family really comes together and we
have been overwhelmed by the messages of condolence that we have received from
all around the world."

Tributes to Joel were also placed at the main entrance to the University of
Worcester, where he had recently completed the second year of a physical
education and sports coaching science degree.

The former pupil of St Mary's Catholic Primary in Wednesbury went back to his
old school regularly to coach soccer and Gaelic football.

Kathryn Hill, the headteacher of St Mary's, said: "Joel contacted us recently
asking if he could spend some of his university summer break coming back into
school as a volunteer as he was considering a career in primary education.

"He spent a happy two weeks with us, accompanying us on school trips, helping
out with our sports day and supporting in lessons.

"Joel was an intelligent, vibrant and compassionate young man who had the world
at his feet and everything to live for. The staff at St Mary's are heartbroken
at the tragic loss of his life and the lives of his uncle and grandfather.

"We would like to offer our prayers and sympathy to his parents, grandmother and
brother Owen who survived the attack.

"There are no words that could possibly do justice to this wonderful young man.
We were proud to have known him."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 1:47 PM GMT

School pays tribute to Joel Richards killed in Tunisia terror attacks;
St Mary's Catholic Primary School in Wednesbury tells how "bright and smiling"
Joel Richards planned to become a teacher

BYLINE: By Fionnuala Bourke

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 421 words


Tributes have been paid to Tunisian terror attack victim Joel Richards by his
former school who told how he was "bright, enthusiastic, aspirational and ALWAYS
smiling".

The 19 year-old, from Wednesbury, was shot dead by twisted IS fanatic Seifeddine
Rezgui on the Sousse beach along with his uncle, Adrian Evans, and grandad
Patrick Evans.

Joel's younger brother Owen, aged 16, survived the massacre and is being hailed
a hero after selflessly helping a woman to shelter as his family lay dead in
front of him on Friday, June 26.

Today head teacher Mrs Hill and staff at St Mary's Catholic Primary School in
Wednesbury told how Joel was a "fantastic role model" for the school and was
hoping to become a teacher.

Speaking for the school Joel's former teacher Maura Logan said: "Joel Richards
left in 2006 and went on to Stuart Bathurst Catholic College of Performing Arts
but returned to St Mary's on a regular basis to train our children in soccer and
Gaelic football, both of which he was passionate about.

"Joel contacted us recently asking if he could spend some of his university
summer break coming into school as a volunteer as he was considering a career in
primary education.

"We were delighted to have him back as he was such a fantastic role model to our
children - bright, enthusiastic, aspirational and ALWAYS smiling!

"He spent a happy two weeks with us, accompanying us on school trips, helping
out with our Sports' Day and supporting in lessons. Joel enjoyed this time so
much that he was planning to come back into school on his return from Tunisia.

"Joel was an intelligent, radiant and compassionate young man who had the world
at his feet and everything to live for.

"The staff at St Mary's are heartbroken at the tragic loss of his life and the
lives of his uncle and grandfather. We would like to offer our prayers and
sympathy to his parents, grandmother and brother Owen who survived the attack.

"There are no words that could possibly do justice to this wonderful young man.
We were proud to have known him. Rest in peace Joel."

Joel's mother, Suzy Evans, is believed to have flown out to Tunisia to be with
Owen.

Seventeen Britons are confirmed to have died in the Tunisa attack, but the death
toll is feared to rise above 30.

Other Midland victims include Sue Davey, from Tamworth, who was on holiday with
her partner Scott Chalkley, from Derby.

A total of 38 people were killed on the beach.

Downing Street said today that all Britons injured in the attack will be
returned to the UK within 24 hours.

Tunisia attack

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              birminghammail.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 9:29 AM GMT

Football club lead outpouring of grief over death of Tunisia terror attack
victim;
Leicester City FC offers condolences to family of Sue Davey, mother of player
Marc Albrighton's partner

BYLINE: By Brett Gibbons

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 773 words


Premier League club Leicester City has offered its condolences to relatives of
West Bromwich-born Sue Davey, who was among the tourists shot dead in the
Tunisian beach massacre.

Ms Davey's daughter Chloe is the partner of Leicester City and former Villa
footballer Marc Albrighton. The Severn Trent Water employee was on holiday with
her partner Scott Chalkley at the Imperial Hotel in Sousse when they were both
tragically killed in the terror attack.

In a statement on its website, Leicester City FC offered condolences to
Albrighton, his partner Chloe and their family after learning of the deaths of
Ms Davey and her partner.

The statement added: "They are all in our thoughts and prayers. We continue to
offer our support to Marc and Chloe's family at this time of great personal
tragedy."

A spokeswoman for Severn Trent said: "Both Sue and Scott have family and friends
at Severn Trent, our thoughts are with each of them and all those that hold them
dear."Ms Davey's daughter Chloe Fulford, 24, who lives with Albrighton in Sutton
Coldfield, said her family has been left "completely heartbroken" by the death
of her mum in the shooting on Friday.

She tweeted the Prime Minister David Cameron following the attack demanding to
know what the Government was doing to stop future attacks.

She posted: "This needs action. It has gone on too long."

Meanwhile, Sue's grieving dad Alan Lloyd was being comforted by pals after
hearing the devastating news on Saturday evening that his daughter had been
confirmed dead.

Mr Lloyd sp​ent much of ​Saturday trying to gain information about​ what had
happened to​ his daughter from official sources but to no avail.

The retired businessman from West Bromwich finally received the terrible news
that his daughter, who was also born in the Black Country town, had perished
during the terrorist massacre on the b​each at Sousse.

Mr Lloyd spent much of Saturday in a vigil by the phone with close friends
waiting for news from North Africa after seeing Sue being carried into an
ambulance on TV footage.

Initially it was thought she had only suffered leg wounds but as time went by it
became clear it was much more serious.

Mr Lloyd spoke of his despair after being unable to gain information from the
Foreign Office or tour operator Thomson about the whereabouts or condition of
his daughter.

He was finally given the heartbreaking news by a relative​.

A family friend said: "Alan is devastated. He was becom​i​ng more worried with
every passing hour on Saturday and the lack of information made him susp​e​ct
that terrible news was on its way.

"He's trying to come to terms with what's happened. Alan is not sure what to do
next. The whole family is in shock.

"He was thinking about going out there - but there is nothing he could do. He is
just waiting to hear what will happen next."

It comes after it was tragically revealed that three members of the same Black
Country family are reported to have been killed in the Tunisian gun massacre
after grandfather Patrick Evans was named as the sixth British victim. Tunisia
attack

Mr Evans is understood to be the father of Adrian Evans, and the grandfather of
Joel Richards, 19, both of who died in the attack at the resort on Friday.

Joel, a student at the University of Worcester, died alongside his uncle Adrian.

Other British victims include gifted photographer Carly Lovett, 24, from
Lincoln.

The beauty blogger became separated from her fiancé Liam Moore in the terror and
made it back to her hotel only for Rezgui to follow and hurl a grenade.

Survivor Liam phoned parents Christopher and Helen to tell them he was safe and
promised to call back once he had found Carly.

Carly got engaged to Liam, also 24, last Christmas and they had been dating each
other since they were 14 years old. The couple arrived in Sousse on Tuesday for
a two-week holiday.

Irish mother-of-two Lorna Carty, from Robinstown, County Meath, was also killed
by the crazed fanatic.

Family friends said she had taken her husband on holiday to help him recover
from heart surgery, and was believed to have gone to the beach by herself when
the gunman went on the rampage.

She was a nurse in a GP surgery in Navan, aged in her 50s, and had a son and
daughter. Her husband Declan, a dairy farmer, was said to be uninjured but
"absolutely distraught".

The massacre comes three months after mother-of-two Sally Adey, from Caynton,
near Shifnal in Staffordshire, died in a terrorist attack in Tunis.

Mrs Adey, a retired solicitor, died in the shooting at the Bardo National Museum
in Tunisia on March 18. She had been on a Mediterranean cruise with her
52-year-old husband Robert, who survived the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Farnworth couple caught up in Tunisia terror attacks fear for their lives

BYLINE: Kate McMullin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 569 words


A COUPLE caught up in the terrorist attacks in Tunisia have told how they are
'scared for their lives'.

Tina-Maria Gallagher and Andy Davies, from Farnworth, are staying in the next
hotel up from where gunmen murdered at least 38 people on a beach outside the
Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba.

The pair had just arrived at the Sahara Beach Hotel on a ten day holiday when
the attack happened and have since been told to stay in their hotel as it is not
safe for them to go outside.

Despite airlines putting on mercy flights for the thousands of British
holidaymakers in Tunisia, the couple claim they have been given no information
and may be forced to stay in the resort until their scheduled flight home on
July 6.

Mother-of-two Miss Gallagher, aged 35, said she 'just wants to come home'. She
added: "We are in a hotel just up from where the attack took place and our hotel
is right on the beach. We didn't know what had happened until there was police
all over the beach, they are still there today and have upped security.

"It is being leaked to us today that there have been more threats out here which
is more worrying and scary.

"Me and my partner both have kids like most people and to be away from then in
this situation is heartbreaking as you can imagine.

"We are confused as to why we can't come home when other airlines are letting
people back, we are still waiting for a phone call back from the Thomas Cook
head office. I just want to come home I don't want to be here worrying and
scared for my life."

Miss Gallagher said the situation is making her a 'nervous wreck' and she is
struggling to sleep.

She added: "We are not sleeping, every noise or kids cry make us on pins we are
nervous wrecks and don't trust anyone.

"Yesterday and today we have been told there's no trips, we can't go out of the
hotel as it's not safe, we can't cancel our holiday and there's no flights for
us and we should just put up with it.

"We are disgusted the way we have been treated and are left to feel. People are
worried and scared because we are not allowed out of the hotel."

Nobody from Thomas Cook was available for comment on the couple's case.

In a general statement the company said 1,100 people who cut short their stay in
the North African country were among 3,600 who have flown back since the attack.
It laid on two extra flights yesterday and another today. It said it is offering
customers due to travel to Tunisia up to July 4 the chance to cancel or alter
their booking, with those travelling after July 5 able to rebook for free.

The foreign office have released a statement advising holidaymakers to be
'especially vigilant'.

A spokesman said: "Further terrorist attacks in Tunisia, including in tourist
resorts, are possible, including by individuals who are unknown to the
authorities and whose actions are inspired by terrorist groups via social media.

"You should be especially vigilant at this time and follow the advice of
Tunisian security authorities and your tour operator."

Among the holidaymakers returning home from Tunisia are young Westhoughton
couple Matthew Queen, aged 20, and Jessica Charleston, aged 19, who were on
their first couple's holiday when the shooting happened.

The couple were staying at The Eden Club in Skanes, about eight miles away from
the spot where an armed terrorist opened fire on a beach outside the Hotel Riu
Imperial Marhaba in Tunisia, but had visited Sousse just days before.



LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Families caught up in Tunisia terror attack return home

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


THE WEYMOUTH families caught up in the Tunisia terror attack are back home safe.

As reported in the Echo, Macauley Arnold, his girlfriend Georgia Richards and
her family were staying at the Riu Belleview, where a gunman opened fire on
tourists.

The family and other tourists were given shelter by a kind-hearted Tunisian man
who took them up on the roof of his house until the shooting was over.

As the Echo went to press on Friday, the group was awaiting news on a flight
back to England.

Their holiday had been due to end this Wednesday but after what happened they
just wanted 'to come home.'

They got spaces on a coach which departed midnight Saturday and were on a 3.30am
flight back to Gatwick, arriving home on Saturday.

Macauley, age 20, who works at Weymouth's Wilko store, said they were relieved
to be home.

Meanwhile, Johnny Richards, 17, and his dad Simon were walking to the beach as
the gunman opened fire.

They said that they felt lucky to be alive as five minutes earlier and they
could have not been as fortunate.

The father and son are now back in Weymouth.

Johnny, a lifeguard at Dorchester 1610, said: "We landed yesterday in Manchester
[Saturday] and ended up having no way of getting back to Weymouth. Thomas Cook
ended up paying for hotel and a taxi back, so it all worked out well in the
end."

Thirty-eight people were killed in the atrocity on Friday. Fifteen of the
casualties were British.

The Sousse atrocity is "the most significant terrorist attack on British people"
since July 7, 2005 when 52 people were killed, Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood
said.

He confirmed that at least 15 British nationals were killed in the attack but
said that number "may well rise as several more have been seriously injured".

Mr Ellwood added: "This is the most significant terrorist attack on British
people since 7/7 and highlights the ongoing threat of Isil."

Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui targeted western tourists as he
terrorised the popular resort.

His killing spree on the beach at the RIU Imperial Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue
ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his body.

Home Secretary Theresa May will chair a meeting of the Government's emergency
cobra committee this morning.

The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice to warn that further terrorist
attacks in Tunisia are possible and urged people to be vigilant.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Boston Standard

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

British medical team flies out to help Tunisia terror attack victims

LENGTH: 643  words


A medical liaison team has been dispatched to Tunisia to help those affected by
the beach massacre, which has left at least 15 Britons dead.

Home Secretary Theresa May said the British death toll remains at 15, but the
number is expected to rise as more information comes out.

Speaking after chairing a meeting of the Government's emergency cobra committee
this morning, Mrs May said the Government was also sending a team to look at
security arrangements in the area, which attracts thousands of western tourists
every year.

A total of 38 people were killed in the attack at a beach resort in Sousse on
Friday, while 39 others were wounded.

The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice to warn that further terrorist
attacks in Tunisia are possible and urged people to be vigilant.

Mrs May told reporters: "The figure for the number of confirmed dead remains at
15, but we should expected that that figure is going to rise."

The news comes as Mrs May indicated British officials are struggling to identify
the victims of the Tunisian terror atrocity because few of the holidaymakers
were carrying anything.

Mrs May said Britons gunned down in the "appalling" massacre would not have had
passports or other forms of identification with them on the beach and some
victims were being moved between hospitals in the country.

Mrs May said there was no evidence that gunman Seifeddine Rezgui had chosen the
Sousse resort because of the high number of Britons that flock to the popular
holiday destination.

But the terror threat Britain is facing is becoming more diverse with a
possibility of more spontaneous lone wolf attacks attacks, she added.

Over the last decade about 40 terror plots are believed to have been foiled by
the security services.

Mrs May told BBC One's Andrew Marr Show: "What's important is that the
information is absolutely 100% correct when it is given to a family.

"If you can imagine, these are circumstances, because of the circumstances of
the attack, people won't have had documents with them, they won't necessarily
have had phones.

"Some people are being moved between hospitals, so the team on the ground are
making every effort to ensure that they get accurate information."

Asked if the beach had been targeted because of the high number of British
tourists using it, she replied: "This is still ongoing investigations and we are
working very closely with the Tunisian authorities in relation to this.

"I've seen no evidence so far that this was targeted because there are British
tourists there, but, of course we must recognise this is the most significant
loss of life in a terrorist attacks since 7/7."

Asked about reports that four major plots in London in the last few months have
been halted, Mrs May said: "Yes, a number of plots have been stopped.

"Over the last ten years it's estimated that something like 40 plots have been
disrupted here in the UK.

"The threat has become more diverse over time. It has changed over time. That's
why it's important for us to sustain the counter-terrorism capabilities of the
agencies.

"We see that you have not just those who will plot for some time, perhaps in a
group to undertake a complex attack, but also the possibility of more
spontaneous attacks, these so-called lone wolf attacks."

Mrs May said the government will be introducing a counter-extremism strategy to
tackle radicalisation.

Since December 2013 more than 70,000 pieces of extremist material have been
removed from the internet, she added.

Mrs May said: "We want to work with families and communities so if they are
seeing signs of somebody being radicalised, if they are concerned about the
behaviour perhaps of their son or daughter or perhaps of somebody's friend that
they are actually able to come forward to the authorities and talk to us about
this so we can perhaps stop somebody from going down that path of
radicalisation."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MBSP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Braintree and Witham Times

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Couple injured in Tunisian terror attack

SECTION: NORTH ESSEX NEWS

LENGTH: 272 words


A couple from Braintree are recovering in hospital after they were badly wounded
in the Tunisian terror attack on Friday.

Kirsty Murray, 25, and fiance Radley Ruszkiewicz, 29, were both injured during a
gunman's rampage in the resort of Sousse, which killed 38 holidaymakers.

At least 30 British citizens are known to have died.

The couple, who have been together for seven years, were staying at the luxury
Riu Imperial Marhaba hotel when 23-year-old Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire on the
beach.

Miss Murray's father, Neil Murray, told the Daily Mail the pair had been
swimming in the hotel's pool when the shooting started.

He said: "They both ran down the same corridor and then a grenade went off in a
really confined space.

"Radley got most of the blast in his legs, and she only got a bit of it so she
kept running. And further down she ended up at a dead-end and that's when he
shot her in the legs, at close range. And then he went along shooting other
people in the head and legs.

"He was shooting women in the legs and men in the head - and he stepped back
over her a couple of times but she played dead.

"She believes there were at least two gunmen because she was shot at close range
with a handgun.

"Both her and her fiancé have said there was more than one gunman. One person is
not capable of doing that much damage anyhow."

On Saturday, Kirsty's distraught mum Cat Davies, also of Braintree, said she was
still "coming to terms" with her daughter's injuries and asked people to pray.

It is understood the RAF have held talks about flying the nurse back to the UK.

The pair are recovering at the Cliniques Les Oliviers in Sousse.



LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Bucks Free Press

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Prayers sent to Hazlemere man shot in Tunisian terror attack

BYLINE: Simon Farr

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 429 words


Prayers and get well messages have been sent to holidaymaker John Metcalf who
was shot in the Tunisian terror atrocity.

The 43-year-old is in intensive care after he was blasted in the stomach as he
and his girlfriend fled from a gunman who killed 38 people on a beach in Sousse.

Wycombe MP Steve Baker tweeted his support to the Hazlemere resident while the
Council for Christian Muslim Relations said its prayers are with Mr Metcalf and
the other victims of the terror attacks in Tunisia, France and Kuwait on Friday.



It said in a statement: "We are deeply shocked by the tragic events which took
place in France, Kuwait and Sousse on Friday, with the loss of so many innocent
lives.

"We offer our heartfelt condolences to the families and loved ones of those who
have lost their lives. We send our prayers and best wishes to John Metcalf from
Hazlemere, who was injured in the attack."

The multi-faith group condemned the "twisted" actions of extremist groups.

CCMR said: "Our communities stand firmly united in the fight against all forms
of terrorism and the senseless acts of violence committed by ISIS, al Quaeda,
Boko Haram and al Shabaab.

"Unfortunately, although these groups are tiny in number, they claim to carry
out these atrocities in the name of Islam. They do not.

"ISIS and its affiliates, with its warped and twisted ideology, represents a
total betrayal of the true spirit of Islam, and is in denial of the actual
teachings of its noble Prophet.

"CCMR unanimously agrees that what ISIS, Al Qaida, Boko Haram, Al Shabaab do is
'not in our name'."

Mr Metcalf, who works at the Co-Operative store in Park Parade, is conscious and
it is hoped he will return to the UK this week.

Simon Metcalf told the BFP that his brother and his partner, Jo Coles, were
sitting around the pool at the Riu Imperial Marhaba Tunisia resort when they
heard "loud bangs" which they thought were firecrackers.

He added: "They realised that it was actually a gunman on the beach who was
randomly shooting people.

My thoughts are with John and Jo from Hazlemere and their families. FCO
information here: https://t.co/Gcg0DuxQtp https://t.co/5sybvNOvcr

- Steve Baker MP (@SteveBakerHW) June 27, 2015

"At that point they all ran to the hotel building and at that point John and Jo,
his girlfriend, got separated in the surge towards the hotel somehow he got left
behind her, but obviously he got shot."

It is estimated that the British death toll could rise to as high as 30.

Home Secretary Theresa May visited the scene of the massacre this morning. She
laid flowers and observed a minute's silence.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Buxton Advertiser

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

NATIONAL NEWS: Minute's silence this Friday to remember Tunisia terror attack
victims

LENGTH: 205  words


A national minute's silence to remember those killed in the terrorist attack in
Tunisia will take place on Friday at 12 noon.

Prime Minister David Cameron has told the House of Commons today that the act of
remembrance will take place one week on from the beach massacre in which dozens
of Brits were killed or injured.

The announcement came as suspected associates of the gunman have been arrested.
Tunisia's interior minister Najem Gharsalli said a "significant number" of
individuals were detained.

Mr Cameron, who chaired a meeting of the government's Cobra emergencies
committee at 10 Downing Street earlier today, promised a "full spectrum
response" to extremist terror.

He said the holidaymakers "suddenly became the victims of the most brutal
terrorist attack against the British people for many years."

It was also announced that within the next few days there will be a major
counter-terrorism training exercise in London.

He added that new rules will come into force this week giving public bodies a
statutory duty to counter extremism.

The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice, but it is not advising against
travel to holiday resorts like Sousse.

See https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/tunisia for more details.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NBUA


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 4:56 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Gateshead neighbours pay tribute to 'great woman' Lisa
Burbidge;
Lisa Burbidge from Gateshead was one of the 18 Britons killed by terrorists in
Tunisia on Friday, residents have described her as a perfect neighbour

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 368 words


A quiet Gateshead community has been united in grief after the shooting of
grandmother Lisa Burbidge.

The gran-of-four was killed by gunman Selfeddine Rezgui when he opened fire on
tourists on a beach in the Port El Kantaoui area of Sousse, in Tunisia, on
Friday.

Prayers have been held for Mrs Burbidge's family at the nearby St Mary's Church.

Mrs Burbidge, whose husband Bill died around 10 years ago, has been described as
'the best neighbour you could hope for' by her friends who are still visibly
upset.

Albert Hood, who lives in the neighbouring Northcote, said: "She lost her
husband about 10 years ago but she was smashing.

"I lost my wife coming up two years ago and she used to always come round to
help or see if we needed anything when she was ill.

"Sometimes she would knock and ask.

"She was great. My wife and her, they got on so well.

"She would run messages for you, ask if there was anything you want."

Mr Hood said he had known Mrs Burbidge throughout his 23 years in Northcote.

"There was a lad down the street who was in the Army and was killed in Iraq and
now she's been killed by terrorists.

"It's awful, when will we learn?"

Tunisia terror attack: The scene in Sousse after the attack

The Whickham grandmother-of-four is understood to have run a newsagent in
Gateshead before her retirement.

As security forces in Tunisia made a number of arrests following the attacks Mrs
Burbidge's neighbours in the leafy Grange Walk were still recovering from the
news their friend would not be returning home.

One couple, who asked not to be named, said: "You just couldn't wish for a nicer
neighbour.

"We've lived here a long time.

"We've seen the family over the weekend, she was a very private lady and we feel
we must respect her privacy.

"It's awful, it's just so sad."

Another resident added: "Everyone is devastated.

"She was so nice, a lovely lady."

One woman who recently moved in to the street said the news had brought a sombre
mood on many residents.

She said: "We didn't really know her but it's terrible, it's just so sad."

Downing Street on Monday confirmed all Britons injured in the attacks would be
flown back to the UK within the next 24 hours and RAF crews are en route to
begin bringing people home.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 4:38 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: House of Commons pay tribute to Gateshead victim Lisa
Burbidge;
Prime Minister thanks Blaydon MP Dave Anderson for paying tribute to murdered
grandmother-of-four Lisa Burbidge from Gateshead

BYLINE: By Rob Kennedy

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 600 words


MPs have paid tribute to Gateshead grandmother-of-four Lisa Burbidge, who was
among those murdered in Tunisia.

Mrs Burbidge, from Whickham, was on holiday with her family when gunman
Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire at the Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba in the Port El
Kantaoui neighbourhood.

David Cameron, the Prime Minister, said there would be a nationwide minute's
silence at midday on Friday to remember the victims.

"I know the whole country will want to share in a moment of remembrance," he
said.

And he joined Blaydon MP Dave Anderson in paying tribute to Mrs Burbidge, who
was described by relatives as a "beautiful, amazing, caring and gentle".

Speaking in the House of Commons, Mr Anderson said: "One of the victims of this
appalling act was my constituent Mrs Lisa Burbidge, a grandmother of four."

He urged the Government to make sure MPs had the resources to help constituents
who had lost loved ones or been affected in other ways.

Mr Anderson added: "Can I also urge the Prime Minister to go the extra mile and
ensure that all government agencies act with the utmost compassion, sensitivity
and understanding in the coming week?

"I'm thinking particularly about things like the Department for Work and
Pensions, education service where these people might need that extra help that
isn't always there when we are dealing with massive bureaucracies."

Mr Cameron said: "Let me thank the honourable gentleman for this question and
for paying tribute to Lisa Burbidge."

Tunisia terror attack: The scene in Sousse after the attack

The Prime Minister added: "He's right in terms of showing compassion and
sensitivity and common sense in how we deal with these things.

"I know the staff at the Foreign Office and family liaison officers are doing
everything they can to cut through the bureaucracy and make the right
decisions."

A number of MPs representing constituencies where families are grieving for
relatives killed in Tunisia questioned the Prime Minister and highlighted the
deaths of local residents, after he delivered a statement to the Commons about
the atrocity.

Mr Cameron vowed "we will prevail" in the generational struggle against
extremism, and confirmed the latest UK toll stands at 18 with more deaths likely
to be confirmed in the coming days.

He said there was no evidence the attacks - claimed by Isil - were "directly
co-ordinated" but outlined a series of plans at home and abroad to confront
those who would do Britain harm.

He said: "This is not the war between Islam and the West which Isil want people
to believe - it is a generational struggle between a minority of extremists who
want hatred to flourish and the rest of us who want freedom to prosper -
together we will prevail."

Addressing a sombre Commons, Mr Cameron told MPs travel advice would not
currently be updated to tell Britons not to travel to the region of Tunisia
attacked on Friday.

He told MPs: "It continues to make clear the high threat from terrorism in the
country, just as it did before Friday's events. But they are not moving to the
position of advising against all but essential travel to this part of Tunisia.

"This was agreed by the Cobra emergency committee and will be kept under close
review. These are difficult judgments - nowhere is without risk from Islamist
extremist terrorists.

"Of course, we take into account the capability of the country in question and
their ability to counter this threat. Here in the UK the threat level remains
severe, meaning a terrorist attack is highly likely.

"But until we have defeated this threat we must resolve as a country to carry on
living our lives alongside it."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 4:21 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Multiple arrests following beach massacre on Friday in
Sousse;
Lisa Burbidge, of Whickham, Gateshead, was one of 38 killed by gunman Seifeddine
Rezgui during the beach massacre on Friday

BYLINE: By Michael Marsh

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 337 words


Multiple arrests have been made following the Tunisian beach massacre that left
38 people dead, including Gateshead gran Lisa Burbidge.

Without giving numbers, Interior Minister Mohamed Najem Gharsalli said everyone
arrested is Tunisian, adding that the investigation remains in its early stages.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, 24, who used a Kalashnikov assault rifle and grenades,
was killed by police after Friday's terror attack in Sousse.

Tunisian authorities say he was acting alone, but had accomplices who provided
him with weapons and logistical support.

News of the arrests came as Downing Street said all British nationals injured
would be returned within the next 24 hours and Home Secretary Theresa May
visited the scene of the attack.

Speaking at a press conference after laying flowers and observing a period of
silence on Monday, Mrs May said the atrocity was "a despicable act of cruelty".

She said: "How could a place of such beauty, of relaxation and happiness, be
turned into such a scene of brutality and destruction?"

She said she had heard "horror stories" of those caught up in the attack and
accounts of "great bravery", including Mathew James, who was hit in the hip,
chest and pelvis as he shielded wife-to-be Saera Wilson from gunfire.

Mrs Burbidge, in her 60s, was one of 38 people killed in total and officials
believe around 30 of these are British.

She was on holiday with her family when Rezgui opened fire at the Hotel Riu
Imperial Marhaba in the Port El Kantaoui neighbourhood.

Her family paid tribute to her in a statement released on Sunday.

It said: "We are devastated with the tragic loss of the most beautiful, amazing,
caring and gentle person in our lives.

"We have been left with a massive hole in our hearts. She leaves behind many
family members including four fantastic grandchildren who were her world and
will miss her tremendously.

"We would like to thank everyone for their kind words and condolences but now
would ask that we are left to grieve privately to come to terms with our sad
loss."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 1:59 PM GMT

Tunisia terrorist attack: Community praying for family of Gateshead grandmother;

Whickham residents have been left shocked by death of Lisa Burbidge in a gun
attack on the North African resort of Sousse

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 336 words


Church leaders have offered prayers following the death of a Gateshead
grandmother who was murdered in a terrorist attack in Tunisia.

As news of Lisa Burbidge's death at the hands of gunman Selfeddine Rezgui
reached her friends and neighbours, a mood of sadness has descended across
Whickham.

The grandmother-of-four was enjoying a family holiday in the popular resort of
Sousse when the terrorist struck.

Now the community in her hometown have been invited to lay tributes on the
church green by St Mary's Church.

Reverend Barry Abbott, rector of Whickham, said: "Our prayers are with the
family and the community who have been greatly effected by this atrocity against
humanity.

"We are here for both family and the community at this time and the Church is
open for prayer on weekday mornings. Tributes can be laid on church green."

Mr Abbott said details of memorial services and Mrs Burbidge's funeral will be
released in due course.

Tributes to Mrs Burbidge have been left on social media and a statement released
by her family on Sunday paid tribute to an 'amazing woman'.

It said: "We are devastated with the tragic loss of the most beautiful, amazing,
caring and gentle person in our lives.

"We have been left with a massive hole in our hearts. She leaves behind many
family members including four fantastic grandchildren who were her world and
will miss her tremendously.

"We would like to thank everyone for their kind words and condolences but now
would ask that we are left to grieve privately to come to terms with our sad
loss."

Councillor Peter Craig, who represents Whickham North on Gateshead Council, said
the community was working on a response to the tragedy.

He said: "We're all shocked and saddened. It's just terrible."

On Monday afternoon the number of Britons killed in the attacks was confirmed as
18 with some experts believing up to 30 Brits could be among the dead.

Home secretary Teresa May has travelled to Tunisia and the Foreign Office has
announced all injured Brits will be flown home this week.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 12:42 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Video captures final moments of Gateshead gran's killer;

Chilling footage captured by hotel staff shows the moment a the gunman stalked
through a hotel searching for more victims

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 320 words


This chilling footage captures the last minutes of the gunman responsible for
the death of up to 30 British tourists including a Gateshead grandmother.

The video shows the terrorist Selfeddine Rezgui moments after he opened fire on
a beach full of innocent tourists.

Taken by a member of the hotel staff - the video also shows the incredible
bravery of Tunisian workers as they bid to bring his slaughter to a stop.

So far 15 Britons have been confirmed dead following the attack, including
gran-of-four Lisa Burbidge, from Whickham, in Gateshead.

Experts have warned the total could reach 30 and the overall number of deaths
stands at 38 on Monday morning.

As the film begins, panicked locals are scattered around the resort grounds as
the gunman opens fire.

Then word spreads the merciless killer is coming closer - gunshots can be heard,
along with a menacing explosion.

But rather than run, the cameraman picks up a bottle from the bar.

Then, suddenly, Rezgui is seen sauntering calmly through the grounds, machine
gun in hand.

As he walks to the beach, the courageous concierge follows him - but has to beat
a hasty retreat when the gunman appears to turn around.

When the barman made it down to the edge of the water - a truly chilling sight
awaits him.

On the sand, where just minutes before carefree holidaymakers were enjoying the
sunshine, is a scene of utter desolation.

Rezgui can be seen walking along the shore - silhouetted against the blue sea.

Shortly after, a group of locals give chase - our cameraman cuts through a beach
bar to a street, and is just yards away when Rezgui is killed by police in a
volley of bullets.

The number of Brits murdered in the Tunisia beach massacre will reach at least
30 and could rise further, Government sources have now warned.

So far 15 British and Irish victims of vile jihadi gunman Rezgui, 24, had been
confirmed dead. Sources said the overall total, currently 38, will exceed 40.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:22 AM GMT

What should I do if I have a holiday booked in Tunisia in the next few weeks?;
Holidaymakers have been told to contact tour operators who have offered a range
of options following the Tunisia terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 567 words


Holidaymakers booked to travel to Tunisia have been urged to contact their tour
operators following a gun attack which left up to 30 Britons dead.

A number of travel firms are giving holidaymakers who planned to go to Tunisia
the chance to cancel or change their summer break.

And sun-seekers due to fly out in the next few days have been urged to contact
their tour operator for their options.

The call came from travel association Abta as extra planes began flying back
holidaymakers desperate to get home after Friday's terrorist attack.

Some firms have offered refunds for tourists bound for Tunisia. Abta advice

Abta, the association of travel agents and tour operators, said: "The first
priority is the welfare of holidaymakers in the hotels affected by this terrible
incident."

It added: "Holidaymakers elsewhere in Tunisia are advised to contact their tour
operator and follow instructions issued by local authorities.

"Many of our members who have operations in Tunisia are offering customers the
option to amend or cancel their bookings."

It said it was liaising with the ­Tunisian ­authorities and the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office and would keep giving updated advice. Thomas Cook

Thomas Cook has said that it is only those due to depart in the next week,
before the July 5, who can cancel their trip and receive a full refund.

"For those travelling from July 5, we are offering to amend their bookings to
Tunisia free of charge for holidays departing up to and including July 31,"
Thomas Cook said in a statment. Jet2

Jet2 say anyone travelling on or before July 24 can cancel their booking with no
charges or pick a new destination.

They also promised to review the cut-off date in line with advice with the
Foreign Office advice.

The airline has confirmed it will also be laying on four specially chartered
flights to bring home devastated tourists caught up in the bloodshed. Thompson
and First Choice

Thomson and First Choice have cancelled all Tunisia holidays booked with them
for the next week and they they are laying on three extra flights to the popular
destinations of the Cape Verde islands, Rhodes and Gran Canaria as potential
alternatives. EasyJet

EasyJet said in a statement on its website: "We are giving our customers, who
are booked to travel to Monastir within the next 14 days, the option to transfer
to a different flight.

"Customers have the option to choose a different route and/or a different date
for free, or alternatively we will provide flight vouchers to the value of the
unused flights if passengers prefer not to travel." What if I am booked for a
holiday in Tunisia later in the year?

Again this will depend on the tour operator. But unless the Foreign Office
issues a no travel warning then you will unlikely be able to change your holiday
because you have changed your mind.

At the moment tour operators will be dealing with people with immediate holiday
plans and will release more information as decisions are made.

Until then check the terms and conditions of your booking. Is it safe to go to
Tunisia?

The FCO travel advice states: "Further terrorist attacks in Tunisia, including
in tourist resorts, are possible, including by individuals who are unknown to
the authorities and whose actions are inspired by terrorist groups via social
media.

"You should be especially vigilant at this time and follow the advice of
Tunisian security authorities and your tour operator".

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:06 AM GMT

Tunisia Terror attack: David Cameron condemns gunman who killed Gateshead
grandmother;
Experts say the number of Britons killed in a gun attack on a beach in Sousse,
Tunisia could climb to 30 or more

BYLINE: By Will Metcalfe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 634 words


The Prime Minister has condemned a brutal terrorist attack which is thought to
have left more than 30 Britons dead - including a Gateshead grandmother.

David Cameron said Britain is united in shock and grief in the wake of the
Tunisian terror atrocity but the nation will not be cowed.

The Prime Minister said the UK "must be more intolerant of intolerance" to
combat the "poisonous ideology" behind the massacre.

Vowing to "stand up for our way of life", the premier - writing in the Daily
Telegraph - insisted the "great British spirit" would triumph in the face of
adversity.

It is believed the attacks may have claimed the lives of at least 30 Britons,
including Lisa Burbidge, a grandmother-of-four from the Whickham area of
Gateshead.

Experts have said the number of Britons killed in the attacks is likely to rise
to at least 30 over the coming week.

Mr Cameron wrote: "Britain is a nation united in shock and in grief. As the
names and identities of the victims in Tunisia emerge - and the horror of what
they faced becomes clear - those feelings grow.

"Everyone is asking the same thing: how can a day at the beach for families and
friends have turned into a scene of such horror?

"The man who did this, the smiling gunman with a Kalashnikov hidden in a
parasol, demonstrates the level of evil we are dealing with.

"It's an evil we've seen on Mount Sinjar in Iraq and in shopping malls in Kenya;
at magazine offices in Paris and in schools in Pakistan.

"On the same day as the holidaymakers in Tunisia came under attack, workers near
Lyon and worshippers in Kuwait fell victim to this evil, as did over 100
Syrians, who were executed in their homes in Kobane by Isil.

"But we will not be cowed. To our shock and grief we must add another word:
resolve. Unshakeable resolve. We will stand up for our way of life.

"So ours must be a full-spectrum response - a response at home and abroad; in
the immediate aftermath and far into the future."

Mr Cameron said a round-the-clock crisis centre is running to help victims and
their families and more than 50 consular staff, police officers and experts from
the Red Cross are on the ground in Sousse.

Military medics have been sent to the holiday resort to help bring victims home
and hundreds of police officers in Tunisia and the UK are involved in the
investigating the attack and supporting the families.

The Prime Minister said the international community must do more to work
together to combat the threat from Islamic State, also known as Isis and Isil,
and stressed that police and security services must be given the "tools they
need to root out this poison".

He said: "Isil may use ancient barbarism in its methods of killing, but it is
modern in its propaganda techniques, using social media as its primary weapon.

"That is why we must give our police and security services the tools they need
to root out this poison.

"And we must look at how we can work with countries like Tunisia to counter this
online propaganda.

"We must also deal with it at its source, in places like Syria, Iraq and Libya,
from where Isil is peddling and plotting its death cult. That means supporting
governments to strengthen weak political institutions and tackle political
instability."

Mrs Burbidge, who is in her 60s, was on holiday with her family when she was
killed.

In a statement her family said: "We are devastated with the tragic loss of the
most beautiful, amazing, caring and gentle person in our lives.

"We have been left with a massive hole in our hearts. She leaves behind many
family members including four fantastic grandchildren who were her world and
will miss her tremendously."

Neighbours also paid tribute to her. Dinnerlady Ann Hailey, 68, said: "Lisa was
lovely. I have known her for 40 years and have lived opposite her for that time.
It's terrible what happened"

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             coventrytelegraph.net

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 11:34 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: What should I do if I have a holiday to Tunisia booked
during the next month?;
Here's everything you need to know after terror attacks in Sousse

BYLINE: By James Rodger

LENGTH: 583 words


After last week's tragedy in Tunisia, Coventry or Warwickshire holidaymakers
with plans to travel to the country in North Africa are being the chance to
cancel or amend their plans.

The Foreign Office is advising against travel to certain parts of the country in
the wake of the terror attacks which left British residents dead, and many major
travel companies and holiday agencies have cancelled all flights to the area
over the next seven days.

There are alternatives being offered, though, with plenty of options and choices
to take in a bid to get away for a week in the sun.

The British Foreign Office has also issued advice to anybody planning on
travelling to Tunisia. They said any holidaymakers should be "especially
vigilant at this time and follow the advice of Tunisian security authorities and
your tour operator."

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office is advising against all travel to the
Chaambi Mountain National Park area, the Tunisia-Algeria border crossing points
at Ghardimaou, Hazoua and Sakiet Sidi Youssef and the militarized zone south of,
but not including, the towns of El Borma and Dhehiba.

Below are the options depending on which companies you are travelling with.
Thomas Cook

High street travel agency Thomas Cook - who also deal online - have opened its
branches to cater for increased customer queries after the attacks in Sousse.

Those due to travel with Thomas Cook up to and including July 12 are being given
the opportunity to cancel or amend their holiday free of charge and for those
travelling after July 12, they can amend their bookings to any date up to and
including October 31, 2015.

They have confirmed they will be giving priority assistance to those travelling
in the next 14 days, but anyone with a query about an upcoming trip to Tunisia
can contact the Thomas Cook helpline on 01733 224 536.

Use their online customer services section for more information.  Thomson and
First Choice

Thomson and First Choice confirmed they are working with those customers who
have been affected by the tragedy as a priority and said any customers with
queries relating to planned holidays to Tunisia with Thomson can contact 0800
0093835.

Alternatively, use their travel alert page for information.

Jet2

Jet2 have confirmed they will be cancelling all flights and holidays to Tunisia
up to and including July 5.

Jet2holidays customers will be given a full refund or the option to change their
booking. Easyjet

EasyJet said in a statement on its website: "We are giving our customers, who
are booked to travel to Monastir within the next 14 days, the option to transfer
to a different flight.

"Customers have the option to choose a different route and/or a different date
for free, or alternatively we will provide flight vouchers to the value of the
unused flights if passengers prefer not to travel."

What if I am booked for a holiday in Tunisia later in the year?

Unless the Foreign Office issues a no travel warning then you will unlikely be
able to change your holiday because you have changed your mind.

At the moment tour operators will be dealing with people with immediate holiday
plans and will release more information as decisions are made. Is it safe?

Travel advice states: "Further terrorist attacks in Tunisia, including in
tourist resorts, are possible, including by individuals who are unknown to the
authorities and whose actions are inspired by terrorist groups via social
media."

Anyone who wishes to log their concerns with the Foreign Office can contact
02070080000.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBET


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 10:58 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Ex-footballer and his wife killed in British beach
massacre

BYLINE: Cyrus Engineer

LENGTH: 270 words


A FORMER professional footballer and his wife are the latest victims to have
been confirmed dead in the Tunisian beach massacre.

Denis Thwaites, 70, and his 69-year-old wife Elaine were staying at the Imperial
Marhaba Hotel in Sousse when Islamist gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire.

Mr Thwaites broke into the Birmingham City team as a teenager in 1961 and
retired 11 years later at the age of 27.

The couple only arrived in Tunisia on Wednesday and texted family on Thursday to
say they were enjoying their holiday.

MP for Blackpool South Gordon Marsden tweeted: "Very sad to hear Denis and
Elaine Thwaites among those killed in the terrorist attack in Sousse -
condolences to their family."

A spokesperson for Birmingham City said: "We are deeply shocked and saddened by
the death of former player Denis Thwaites and his wife Elaine in the Tunisian
terrorist attack.

"Our thoughts are with Denis' family.

"The Club also offers its condolences to all who are mourning loved ones due to
this atrocity."

A former teammate of the winger described him as a "lovely" man and a "cracking"
player.

"He was the sort of bloke who wouldn't hurt anyone," Bobby Thomson told the
Birmingham Mail.

A former teammate of Denis Thwaites

"He had so much speed and so much skill. He was just a bit shy."

As many as 30 Brits are feared to have lost their lives in the attack -
described as the worst since the 7/7 bombings in 2005.

David Cameron has vowed that Britain will not cower in the face of terrorism.

A national minute of silence will be held across the UK at noon on Friday in
memory of those killed.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:03 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: David Cameron reveals up to five British terror plots
foiled in recent months;
UK FORCES have stepped in to prevent five potentially devastating terrorist
strikes in the last few months alone.

BYLINE: By Dan Bloom

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 540 words


BRITISH Security forces have stepped in to prevent five 'prominent' terror
attrocities from taking place on British soil.

The House of Commons listened as the Prime Minister made the claim, where MPs
fell silent in memory of up to 30 Britons murdered in the Tunisia attack.

Home Secretary Theresa May has already said 40 terror plots have been disrupted
in Britain in the last 10 years.

Home Secretary Theresa May previously claimed that up to 40 terror plots planned
for execution on British soil ahve been dusrupted in the past decade alone.

Mr Cameron told MPs: "There have been some very great successes in taking ISIL
social media sites pages off the web.

"And indeed a number of plots, prominent plots, perhaps as many as four or five,
in the last few months, in this country, have been prevented.

Cameron: Security forces have foiled 4 or 5 'prominent' ISIS plots in the last
few months

"I think it's very important that we talk up our capabilities and strength and
resolve in this way."

His statement came after Tory MP John Baron criticised the government for not
doing enough to disrupt flows of money from Arab countries to Islamists.

The PM added more needs to be done and the 'finance needs to be attacked'.

Mr Cameron's near-2-hour appearance before MPs also revealed police and
counter-terror officers will launch a major, 2-day training exercise in the
heart of London tomorrow.

The exercise was listed by the PM as one of a string of measures to toughen up
the UK's response to extremists.

But a Metropolitan Police spokesman was keen to stress the operation's date had
already been fixed before 38 people were slaughtered at the beach resort of
Sousse on Friday.

"The national policing response is likely to be one of the largest
counterterrorism operations in a decade," the Prime Minister said.

Funding has already been increased for counter-terror police and on Wednesday
new laws will force councils, prisons and schools to take extra steps to
pinpoint extremism at its source.

The House of Commons was packed for a minute-long show of solidarity today after
it emerged 30 Brits could have been massacred .

The Prime Minister said there will be a national minute's silence at noon on
Friday, a week after gunman Seifeddine Rezgui slaughtered 38 in the resort of
Sousse.

Most were tourists and many are still being identified because they were not
carrying wallets or mobile phones in their beachwear .

But he said the battle is not one against Islam - instead against a twisted
ideology that a student used for evil.

He declared: "We must take on the radical narrative that is poisoning young
minds.

"The people who do these things do them in the name of a twisted and perverted
ideology that hijack Islam and argue that murder is not just acceptable but
necessary.

The House of Commons pays tribute to the victims of the Tunisia Attack

"We will stand in solidarity with all those outraged by this event, not least
the overwhelming majority of Muslims in this country and around the world.

"For this is not the war between Islam and the west that ISIL want you to
believe

"It is a generational struggle between an minority of extremists who want hatred
to flourish and the rest of us who want freedom to prosper - and together we
will prevail."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 5:29 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: First Minister Nicola Sturgeon pushing for formal ID of
Scottish victims;
NICOLA Sturgeon has said that all flags flying above Holyrood and other Scottish
government buildings are flying at half-mast.

BYLINE: By Craig Robertson

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 365 words


FIRST Minister Nicola Sturgeon says her government is trying to have Scottish
victims of the Tunisia attack formally identified.

She says they've yet to have formal notification of any Scots deaths despite
friends and family of Cumbernauld couple Jim and Ann McQuire confirming them as
victims.

And the family of Billy and Lisa Graham of Perth are also fearing the worst
after not hearing from them on their Tunisian holiday since before Friday's
bloodbath which killed 38 .

Speaking after Scottish Government resilience meeting today, Sturgeon said: "The
Scottish Government, Police Scotland and our partners are doing everything
possible to support those who may be affected by this horrific attack and their
families.

Video: Tunisia terror attacks - tourists arrive back to Glasgow

"While we have not yet received official confirmation that any of the dead come
from Scotland, it now seems certain that there will be Scottish victims.

"I understand and sympathise with the many people who are concerned for loved
ones and want immediate answers.

"The victims and their families are foremost in our thoughts today and it's
imperative that people in Sousse, and concerned friends and relatives in
Scotland, have all of the advice, help and information they need.

The British death toll so far stands at 18 but reports suggest it could be as
high as 30 after Sefeddine Rezgui's gun rampage at the beach on the resort of
Sousse.

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

Sturgeon said flags at all Scottish Government buildings are flying at half mast
as a mark of respect.

She added: "The situation in Sousse is highly complex due to the scale of the
attack, the number of people killed and the fact that the victims come from
different countries.

"I would ask people to be reassured that the UK Government, Scottish Government
and all agencies involved are working as fast as possible to identify victims ,
keep families informed and help people travel back as quickly and safely as
possible."      Anyone with any concerns about the welfare of their friends and
families should contact the official helpline on 0207 008 0000 .

Try our quick news quiz below:  Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 4:56 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: 'Significant number' of suspects arrested;
TUNISIA'S interior minister Najem Gharsalli has confirmed the arrests of a
number of people who are suspected to be associates of the Tunisian beach
massacre gunman.

BYLINE: By Hayden Smith

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 819 words


Suspected associates of the gunman who carried out the Tunisian beach massacre
have been arrested.

The country's interior minister Najem Gharsalli said a "significant number" of
individuals were detained.

A total of 38 people, including up to 30 Britons, died after
Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire in the resort of
Sousse on Friday.

News of the arrests came as the official toll of UK deaths rose to 18, Downing
Street said all British nationals injured would be returned within the next 24
hours and Home Secretary Theresa May visited the scene of the attack.

Speaking at a press conference after laying flowers and observing a period of
silence, Mrs May said the atrocity was "a despicable act of cruelty".

She said: "How could a place of such beauty, of relaxation and happiness, be
turned into such a scene of brutality and destruction?"

She said she had heard "horror stories" of those caught up in the attack and
accounts of "great bravery", including Mathew James, who was hit in the hip,
chest and pelvis as he shielded wife-to-be Saera Wilson from gunfire.

Mrs May said she had taken part in a "very constructive" meeting with
politicians from Tunisia and other countries, adding: "We are very clear that
the terrorists will not win. We will be united in working together to defeat
them, but united also in working to defend our values."

Officials confirmed today that the total number of Britons killed when a gunman
opened fire on sunbathers in the resort of Sousse is expected to reach "around
30".

Four people needing treatment are being flown back to the UK on board an RAF C17
plane with "medevac" teams experienced at bringing injured service personnel
back from operations overseas. The aircraft left the Brize Norton base in
Oxfordshire at lunchtime.

The Prime Minister, who chaired a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergencies
committee at 10 Downing Street, promised a "full spectrum response" to extremist
terror.

He said the "existential threat" posed by the emergence of Islamic State in Iraq
and Syria was "the struggle of our generation and we have to fight it with
everything we can".

The Prime Minister said the Government is working "as fast as we can" to get
information to families still waiting in anguish for news of missing loved ones
three days after the attack.

"I know it has taken time but these are very difficult things and we must get
them right," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

The PM's spokeswoman said that delays in identifying the dead are due in part to
the fact that the holidaymakers may not have been carrying identification at the
time of the attack.

In two cases where authorities "feared the worst", individuals thought to have
possibly been victims of the gunman were this morning tracked down alive and
well in the UK, she said.

Mr Cameron's spokeswoman said that UK authorities were "working closely" with
relatives of those killed to offer help with the repatriation of the bodies of
their loved ones, and that some were expected to be brought home this week.

She said that the decision to bring some of the wounded back by RAF transport
plane was based on their individual wishes and circumstances, rather than on the
severity of their injuries.

Another two were returning by private medevac organised by tour operators and
insurers. A number of those returning will need "ongoing medical treatment" and
will be taken to "the appropriate places for them to get the care they require".

Scotland Yard has said more than 600 officers are involved in what is its
largest counter-terrorism operation since the 7/7 bombings.

Former navy chief Lord West said Britain must step up the "propaganda war"
against Islamic State, also known as Isil or Isis, who he said were "running
rings around us in terms of the social media they are putting out".

He also suggested the UK should consider joining the US in air strikes on IS
targets in Syria and the West should consider working with Syrian president
Bashar al-Assad.

His comments come after former head of the Army Lord Dannatt called for allied
special forces to be sent in on the ground to help destabilise Isil's hold.

Mr Cameron defended the current military action, which includes air strikes
against strongholds in Iraq, saying the Government's strategy was to "build
local armies in Iraq and Syria and local governments in Iraq and Syria."

Scotland Yard has said more than 600 officers are involved in what is its
largest counter-terrorism operation since the 7/7 bombings.

Asked about the Tunisia massacre, London mayor Boris Johnson said: "Our thoughts
are with the victims and their families. We don't at the moment think there is
any read-across with security in London.

"Clearly it is also very poignant that this should happen just at the moment
that we are preparing next week to memorialise 7/7 - the appalling tragedy in
2005 when 52 Londoners lost their lives."

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 4:31 PM GMT

Jihadi bride pens terror poem praising attacks in Tunisia, France and Kuwait

BYLINE: Ashitha Nagesh

LENGTH: 366 words


A BRITISH student who ran away to join the Islamic State has penned a disturbing
poem praising the horrific terrorist attacks in Tunisia, France and Kuwait as "a
day of resistance and memory".

Aqsa Mahmood dropped out of Glasgow University last year to join ISIS and become
a jihadi bride.

Blogging under the name Umm Layth, the 20-year-old Scot wrote that the day in
which 66 people were brutally killed "will go down in history".

Aqsa Mahmood

The rambling post also claimed the shooting at a beach in Sousse, Tunisia, an
attempt to blow up a gas plant near Lyon and the bombing of a mosque in Kuwait
were all "revenge".

Mahmood linked the attacks to last week's landmark Supreme Court ruling that
same-sex marriage is legal in all 50 American states.

She claimed that "it is not for this reason that it shall be remembered," adding
that gay people would go to hell and "take back what they now call in pride".

The runaway also warned of more attacks, claiming there are "many looking up to
what more could be done".

It finished with the chilling line: "If you show no mercy with us then why
should we with you?"

In its daily bulletin on Saturday ISIS's official al-Bayan Radio claimed
responsibility for the Tunisia and Kuwait attacks.

Mahmood travelled to Syria to join ISIS and marry a jihadi fighter last
September.

She has been blogging since 2013 and encouraging other British Muslims to join
the feared terror group.

When she was in the UK she attended a £3,500-a-term private school, but was
brainwashed after spending hours reading extremist websites.

She is also suspected of helping to recruit three London schoolgirls who ran
away to Syria in February.

Her parents described their jihadi daughter as a "disgrace" and said that she
had "betrayed" her family and the people of Scotland.

She is now being investigated by the Metropolitan Police, who said that she will
be prosecuted if she ever comes back to the UK.

Related articles Tunisia terror attacks: The British victims named so far
Tunisian terror attack: Gunman's dad says son was 'brainwashed' by Islamic
extremists David Cameron announces national minute of silence following Tunisia
terror attack

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 3:45 PM GMT

David Cameron announces national minute of silence following Tunisia terror
attack

LENGTH: 237 words


A NATIONAL minute of silence in honour of the victims of the Tunisian terror
attack will be held at noon on Friday, David Cameron has announced.

The Prime Minister revealed the plan to commemorate those caught up in the
horrific beach shooting in Sousse in a special address to the House of Commons.

"I know the whole country will want to share in a moment of remembrance," he
said.

Mr Cameron told the House there was currently "no evidence" to suggest last
Friday's attacks in France, Kuwait and Tunisia.

The government now has more than 50 people on the ground helping victims in
Tunisia.

His speech comes as suspected associates of beach gunman Seifeddine Rezgui were
arrested.

Mr Cameron said his first priority had been to aid victims and their families,
helping on site and assisting the wounded.

He said hundreds of people had already been flown home on 20 special flights and
a Royal Air Force C-17 had arrived in Sousse today.

The RAF will directly arrange repatriation for the victims, Mr Cameron told MPs.

The Prime Minister told the Commons: "We will not give up our way of life or
cower in the face of terrorism.

"These terrorists tried to strike at places of hope: in a country with a
flourishing tourist industry that is on the road to democracy and a mosque in
Kuwait that dared to bring Sunnis and Shia together.

"They will not be cowed by terror and we will stand with them."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 2:55 PM GMT

Tunisian terror attack: Police arrest group with 'links' to beach massacre
gunman

BYLINE: Ian Proctor and Rory McKeown

LENGTH: 580 words


TUNISIAN authorities have arrested a group of suspects with alleged links to the
gunman who killed 39 tourists on a beach.

Tunisian interior minister Najem Gharsalli confirmed on Monday a group of
suspects have been arrested following the killing spree in the Sousse region on
Friday.

A total of 39 people - mainly British tourists - were killed after ISIS nut
Seifeddine Rezqui opened fire using an AKA-47 on a beach in a holiday resort.

At least 18 Brits died in the rampage.

Mr Gharsalli would not give further details on the arrests.

It comes as it was revealed up to 30 of the 39 holidaymakers killed were Brits.

That estimate has risen from 15 earlier on Monday and 10 of the holidaymakers
have been named.

Home Secetary Theresa May today flew out to Tunisa to lay flowers at the
massacre scene and meet security officials following the atrocity.

It has been confirmed that all British nationals injured in the attack will be
returned to the UK for treatment within the next 24 hours.

Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said there had been delays in identifying
victims because many were "dressed for the beach, not carrying ID physically on
them".

He said: "There are a significant number of victims who have not been positively
identified at this time and it is highly likely that a significant proportion of
them will be British."

Mr Hammond said it was "extraordinarily difficult" to predict where the next
attack will happen and was no more likely to be in Tunisia than in a European
city.

"Our agencies have been very frank about this over a long period of time now,
they cannot guarantee that we will be safe from this kind of self-radicalising
lone-wolf attack.

"It is the most difficult type of attack to detect and predict and therefore the
most difficult kind to protect against."

The revised Brit victim total comes as the father of the gunman responsible said
he is "ashamed" of his son's actions.

Speaking to ITV News soon after being released by police, Hakim Rezgui said that
when he first heard the news he could not "comprehend" it.

He also said that he was "sorry" for all the lives that had been lost.

Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, targeted western tourists on
the beach in Sousse at the RIU Imperial Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue.

Mr Rezgui said: "My god, I am so shocked. I don't know who has contacted him,
influenced him or who has put these ideas in his head. He has new friends who
got him into this."

He added: "My son had no problem with anyone. But I don't know who has changed
his mind, influenced him and who has warped his mind."

Mr Rezgui continued: "I wish there had been no victims, no one hurt. I wish it
had never happened. Because when I see the victims I think it could have been my
own family.

"I had no idea and I am really sorry. I am upset to see those victims. I feel
the loss of the families so strongly. I feel like I have died along with the
victims.

"I am so ashamed for me, for his mother, for all our family."

Related articles Tunisia massacre: Hotel staff formed human shield to protect
terrified guests Tunisia killings: Queen sends condolences to families of
victims and the survivors Tunisia terror attack: Killer was a 'normal guy' who
loved breakdancing and Real Madrid Tunisia terror attack: Brave builder floored
terrorist by chucking ROOF TILES at him Tunisia terror attack: Brit couple gets
engaged same night as killings to defy terrorists

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 1:55 PM GMT

Tunisia Terror Attack: Tourists flock to massacre site in shocking SELFIE craze;

TOURISTS in Tunisia have been swarming to the site where an ISIS gunman murdered
38 people to take selfies with friends and family.

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 308 words


HOLIDAYMAKERS in Tunisia, including wannabe Labour MP Amran Hussain, are coming
under fire for taking sick selfies on the beach where 38 people were gunned down
on Friday .

Some tourists have even been seen grinning for photos at the spot where ISIS
gunman Seifedine Rezgui sprayed a crowded beach with fire from a kalashnikov
rifle, prompting Twitter users to react with anger and disbelief.

One said: "People taking selfies and smiling at the murder scene in Tunisia,
should be ashamed of themselves."

Another added: "Morons taking selfies in Tunisia - how low can humanity go?",
while another said: "Crass & thoughtless of those grinning idiots taking selfies
on beach in Tunisia where so many people lost their lives ."

Labour MP Amran Hussain, 29, who stood for Labour in North East Hampshire in the
recent election, was seen with friends taking snaps with a selfie stick on the
beach.

But Mr Hussain, who was in the hotel next to the one attacked, has defended the
picture, claiming he spent a long time paying his respects at the crime scene.

He wrote: "On Saturday morning we went to show our respects to all the innocent
people who lost their lives.

"My friends and I walked silently from our hotel to the site with a bouquet of
flowers, where together we laid them down with others' tributes, then held hands
and took a moment to pray for all those who fell victim to the terrorist attack,
their loves ones, and all those who may be affected.

"We also prayed for all the locals and their families who will likely be badly
affected by the lack of tourism for the foreseeable future, we wished them all
the best.

"We took a few pictures to share with the world to show that we care about and
love the country and its people, and that we did go out to the site to show
solidarity and support, and in defiance to the terrorists."

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 1:42 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: What do we know about the British victims named so far?;

FOURTEEN of the British victims have been named, including two from Scotland,
and the Government are working on giving more information soon.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 1872 words


FOURTEEN victims of the Tunisia beach massacre have been named after a crazed
gunman opened fire on tourists.

It's expected the death toll of Brits will more than double to 30 as details of
the atrocity continue to emerge.

David Cameron has said the Government is working 'as fast as we can' to give
information with 14 of the British victims named already.

The victims who have been named so far are:

James, 66, and Ann McQuire, 63

The only Scottish victims to have been named so far are James and Ann McQuire.

Mrs McQuire, 63, a former medical practice receptionist, was on holiday with
husband James when she was killed in the attack.

They were due to fly home tomorrow to attend the Queen's Garden Party in
Edinburgh.

Mr McQuire, 66, is a former marine engineer who volunteered at the Edinburgh
Boys' Brigade.

Their friend Marjory Williamson revealed that Ann and Jim, who had recently
retired, had gone to Tunisia on a late deal.

She said: "They were enjoying life so much.

"The holiday was booked just a week in advance and they said they loves having
the freedom to do hat now James is retired."

Carly Lovett, 24

Photographer Carly Lovett, 24, died holding her fiance's hand after selflessly
using herself as a human shield, witnesses have said.

Carly and Liam Moore, also 24, ran in from the beach when crazed Rezgui opened
fire.

They raced down a staff corridor behind the reception desk and tried to hide
with others before the killer tossed a grenade in after them.

One witness said: "Carly took the full force of the grenade because she was in
front.

"Liam was with her the whole time, doing whatever he could. He tried to give her
CPR but she died there next to him.

"The paramedics made him leave the corridor so they could get to Carly. He was
in the lobby covered in blood so people thought he was injured but it wasn't his
blood.

"He was so traumatised."

The couple, childhood sweethearts who got engaged last Christmas, had only
arrived at the resort on Wednesday.

Liam is back at home being comforted by his parents. Carly was a photographer
for a website based near her home in Gainborough, Lincs.

Adrian Evans, 49

Mr Evans worked as a manager for Sandwell Council in the West Midlands, based in
its gas services department.

He died alongside two members of his family - his dad Charles Evans and his
nephew. His other nephew Owen Richards survived the attack.

Mr Evans had worked for the council for 32 years, and was on his first day of a
holiday in Tunisia.

He was due to spend seven days in the African country before a week's stay in
France.

Council leader Darren Cooper said he was a "very popular and long-serving
employee", adding: "We are absolutely devastated for Adrian's family, friends
and colleagues, and our thoughts are with them and all those affected by this
tragedy."

Charles 'Patrick' Evans, 78

Mr Evans lived with his wife Maureen in the West Midlands.

He was shot on the beach along with three members of his family.

Joel Richards, 19

Joel, a 19-year-old student at the University of Worcester was also a talented
referee "with the world at his feet."

The teenager's Facebook profile picture shows him standing on Wembley Way when
his beloved Walsall FC played there earlier this year.

In a statement, Birmingham County FA said: "Joel was an active member of the
Birmingham County FA youth council.

"A young talented referee with the world at his feet, he was highly thought of
and will be sadly missed."

The University of Worcester's vice chancellor and chief executive, Professor
David Green, said: "Our whole university community has been shocked by these
tragic reports.

"At Worcester Joel has shown himself to be a highly intelligent, talented young
man and an all-round outstanding person with a truly bright future ahead. Since
joining the university, he has become very popular with his fellow students,
team-mates and with the many staff that have taught him throughout his time with
us."

Sue Davey, 44

Ms Davey, from Tamworth, was on holiday with her partner Scott Chalkley at the
Imperial Hotel in Sousse.

Her son Conor Fulford, 23, begged for help to find his mum in the aftermath of
the gun attack.

But Conor later took to Twitter saying: "Hi Everyone, Sorry to tell you we lost
my mother Sue Davey tonight but i want to thank everybody that tried to help me
& my family ..."

Sue worked with Scott for Severn Trent Water.

Suzanne's daughter Chloe Fulford, 24, lives with Leicester City winger Marc
Albrighton in Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands.

Her son Conor Fulford , 23, who works as a football coach in Massachusetts, USA,
tweeted: "Love you always Mom, I've got my teddy bear you got me tonight, Rest
easy xxxx"

Leicester City Football Club issued a statement offering support to winger Marc
Albrighton and his partner Chloe, who is Sue's eldest daughter.

The Premier League club said: "Leicester City Football Club offers its sincerest
condolences to Marc Albrighton, his partner Chloe and their family after
learning of the deaths of Chloe's mother, Sue, and her partner, Scott, during
Friday's attacks in Tunisia.

Scott Chalkley, 42

Mr Chalkey's son Ross Naylor also took to Twitter in a desperate bid to find
information about his dad in the aftermath of the attack.

Sue and Scott, both Severn Trent employess, were enjoying their dream holiday
after recently buying a house together.

Ross said on Facebook: "Tonight me and Brad lost our dad. Unfortunately he was
caught up in the sickening attack in Tunisia and is not longer with us.

"I'm sure many of you have seen the news about Sue as well so all I ask is that
people let both families grieve in peace."

A spokeswoman for Severn Trent said: "They were much-loved by their colleagues.
Sue and Scott had a passion to help others however they could, they cared
enormously for all those they worked with and were totally committed to our
customers and our company.

"We will miss them deeply. Both Sue and Scott have family and friends at Severn
Trent, our thoughts are with each of them and all those that hold them dear."

Trudy Jones

Trudy, from Blackwood, south Wales, was named by Islwyn MP Chris Evans as one of
the victims of the tragedy.

Wales Online reports a statement released by Mr Evans said: "When the news broke
of the evil attack on innocent holidaymakers in Tunisia we knew it was likely
that British citizens were among the casualties.

"The reality of this horrific and brutal attack has now been brought home to our
communities with the news that Trudy Jones of Blackwood is among those
murdered."

Claire Windass, 54

Claire, from Hull, was sunbathing with her husband Jim when she was shot by the
gunman.

The mum-of-two was due to fly back home today after arriving at the resort on
Sunday for a week-long holiday.

Claire worked for is believed to have worked at North Lincolnshire Council.

Karl Turner, MP for East Hull tweeted: "So sorry Claire Windass from #Hull was
killed in Tunisia terrorist attack. My thoughts with family & friends. #RIP."

Mrs Windass was reported to have been on holiday with her husband Jim, who is
understood to have survived the attack.

Bruce Wilkinson, 72

Mr Wilkinson is from Goole, Humberside. He is understood to have been on holiday
with his wife.

The family of Bruce Wilkinson has issued a statement to the grandfather. He was
on holiday with his wife Rita when the attack began.

In a statement issued via their MP Andrew Percy, they said:

"We are devastated at the loss of Bruce, who was a devoted husband, father and
grandfather.

"Bruce was a loving family man, and in his working life worked to support the
care of others.

"He was a kind and compassionate man, with a dry sense of humour.

"He was fun-loving, and will be deeply missed by friends and family alike.

"The family would like to thank everyone who has supported them since the tragic
of events of last Friday, and we respectfully ask to be left in peace to
grieve."

Lisa Burbidge

Lisa, believed to be in her 60s, was from Whickham, Northumbria.

She was enjoying a break with her family at the time of the terror attack.

Ms Burbidge's granddaughter Chloe Thompson left a tribute on the Newcastle
Chronicle's Facebook page, saying: "My angel, my bestfriend love you always
grandma, rest in peace."

She also thanked the dozens of readers who responded to her comment with
condolences.

The grandmother of four has been described as a devoted to her husband Bill
until he died of cancer.

Her son-in-law, David Thompson, wrote of her on Facebook:

"My amazing mother in- law was shot and killed in tunisia yesterday ..she loved
the place, people and had been to that hotel 6 times..she has left two wonderful
daughters and four fantastic grandkids.

"She also had another holiday booked to go again in August with the family."

Stuart Cullen, 52

Stuart Cullen, 52, from the Lowestoft area of Suffolk, is believed to have died
instantly. His wife, who was with him, was injured but survived and has returned
to the UK.

Stephen Mellor, 59

Stephen, from Bodmin, Cornwall, was shot on the beach as he tried to shield wife
Cheryl from the bullets.

Cheryl told the Mirror Stephen had died on the beach and he had no pulse when
people checked his heartbeat.

She said: "I was screaming at people to check him and someone looked and they
said he had no pulse. They said he was gone."

A neighbour close to their home in Cornwall, who asked not to be identified,
said today: "I knew them both through my kids. We have lived here for three
years and knew them to talk to, we would always wave and say hello to each
other.

"I only found out about what happened to them when a reporter knocked at my door
and told me today. I can't believe it has happened, and happened to them. It
brings it all back home."

A number of Brits were also injured in the attack including:

Cheryl Mellor

Cheryl Mellor was doing crosswords on the beach when IS killer Seifeddine Rezgui
opened fire.

She was hit in a forearm and leg as engineer Stephen, 59, slumped motionless on
the sand while trying to shield her.

Tearful Cheryl, 55, told of her dramatic escape as a picture emerged of the
gunman strolling along the beach at Sousse shortly after the massacre which has
so far claimed the lives of 15 Brits among the 38 holidaymakers killed.

Speaking of her husband from her hospital bed she wept: "He died on the beach.
I'm heartbroken."

Matthew James, 30

The gas engineer is recovering in hospital after using his body as a human
shield to protect Sarah from being killed by the terrorist gunman.

The 30-year-old took bullets to his shoulder, chest and hip as the terrorists
fired Kalashnikov at the sunbeds at the Sousee Beach in Tunisia.

Speaking from the hospital where Matthew is recovering from a shattered pelvis
and a heart attack, Sarah, 26, said: "He took a bullet for me. I owe him my life
because he threw himself in front of me when the shooting started."

His mother Kathyrn Matthews has spoken about her son's brave act of sacrifice.

She said: "I am so proud of him. After being the first to be shot and making
sure Saera got to safety, he held the hand of an elderly gent.

"Sas and Saera are back on home turf and safe. He's in good spirits and is
getting the very best of care.

"It was the most fantastic feeling seeing Saera step off the plane and Sas
stretchered off ... [they are] back where they belong."

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 12:38 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Premier League star's partner loses mum in beach massacre
and demands action from David Cameron;
CHLOE FULFORD, the partner of Leicester City player Marc Albrighton, tweeted
David Cameron to demand he takes action following the Tunisia attack.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 712 words


THE daughter of one of the victims of the Tunisia beach massacre has demanded
action from Prime Minister David Cameron.

Chloe Fulford, the partner of Leicester City player Marc Albrighton, tweeted
David Cameron after news that her mum Sue Davey had been killed.

Ms Davey, 43, and her partner Scott Chalkley, 42, were killed while on holiday
celebrating buying their first home together.

Suzanne's daughter Chloe lives with Leicester City winger Marc Albrighton in
Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands.

Suzanne lived in Tamworth, Staffs, and worked as a manager in the complaints
department for Severn Trent Water.

Her son Conor Fulford, 23, who works as a football coach in Massachusetts, USA,
tweeted: "Love you always Mom, I've got my teddy bear you got me tonight, Rest
easy xxxx"

Leicester City Football Club issued a statement offering support to winger
Albrighton and his partner Chloe, who is Sue's eldest daughter.

The Premier League club said: "Leicester City Football Club offers its sincerest
condolences to Marc Albrighton, his partner Chloe and their family after
learning of the deaths of Chloe's mother, Sue, and her partner, Scott, during
Friday's attacks in Tunisia.

"They are all in our thoughts and prayers."

Suzanne and Scott, from Chaddesden, Derby, had been together for two years.

In a series of tweets to the Prime Minister, Chloe asked David Cameron what the
government is doing to combat terrorism.

Chloe Fulford tweets

She wrote: "Hi David, my mom Sue Davey was one of the people killed yesterday in
Tunisa.

"Our family are completely heartbroken as you can imagine.

"The majority of people have been absolutely amazing and make me proud to be a
British citizen."

"I just need one question answering. What are we doing to prevent this happening
again?

"This needs action it's gone on to (sic) long and I pray no other family go
through what my family have gone through in these last few days, and for the
rest of our lives.

"We need to take action. We can overcome this as a country we just need the go
ahead we're all waiting for.

"Please talking about what has happened is going to get us nowhere we need to
talk about what we're going to do as a country to stop this.

"Please get back to me today my Mom deserves an answer."

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

Theresa May yesterday urged parents to report their children to the police if
they feared they had been radicalised.

Speaking in the wake of the Tunisian massacre, the Home Secretary warned that
Britain remained at risk of "lone wolf" terror attack.

She said the threat posed by terrorism had become "more diverse" and the
government needed families and communities to alert them to potential dangers.

Security chiefs are worried about "bedroom radicalisation" which sees young
people brainwashed by extremist views dispersed online.

Mrs May said that since December 2013 over 70,000 pieces of material have been
taken down from the web.

The Government would soon be unveiling a new counter extremism strategy aimed at
stopping radicalisation, particularly in the Muslim community.

David Cameron will make a Commons statement today to update MPs on the Tunisian
attack. There are fears the UK death toll could rise from 15 to 25, possible
higher. Three of the British victims remain in intensive care and a further two
are in comas.

Britain is to send more security advisers in Tunisia and has offered to work
with the authorities there on how it can improve security around tourist areas.

The PM also spoke to Belgian premier Charles Michel yesterday, following calls
with France's Francois Hollande and Germany's Angela Merkel earlier, to discuss
the international response to the IS threat.

Ex-Army boss Lord Richard Dannatt said more must be done on the ground to
confront Islamic State forces.

"On the military lines we have got to do much more to support those in the
region who are fighting Islamist extremists on the ground.

"Yes, we can support them from the air, we should be doing more of that, but we
should be doing more to support them on the ground as well.

"More training teams, better equipment and really giving those who are willing
to fight the best chance of succeeding, because to succeed on the ground is the
really important thing to do," he said.

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 12:29 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Alex Salmond calls for broadcasters to stop using the
name Islamic State;
THE SNP's foreign affairs spokesman says using the name Islamic State is an own
goal and believes it should be stopped.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 404 words


ALEX SALMOND has joined calls for broadcasters to stop using the name Islamic
State in the wake of the Tunisian beach massacre .

The SNP's foreign affairs spokesman at Westminster said using the term was "an
own goal of massive proportions" in a column for the Courier and Press and
Journal newspapers.

Prime Minister David Cameron has expressed frustration at the BBC for referring
to the terrorist organisation as Islamic State, urging the use of the prefix
"'so-called" or the term Isil, the abbreviation of the title Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant.

Mr Salmond backed French foreign minister Laurent Fabius's plea for the use of
the Arabic name Daesh.

The former first minister and SNP leader said: "We should start by understanding
that in a propaganda war then language is crucial.

"Any description of terrorists which confers on them the image that they are
representing either a religion or a state must surely be wrong and an own goal
of massive proportions. It is after all how they wish to refer to themselves.

"Daesh, sometime spelled DAIISH or Da'esh, is short for Dawlat alIslamiyah
f'alIraq wa alSham.

"Many Arabic-speaking media organisations refer to the group as such and there
is an argument it is appropriately pejorative, deriving from a mixture of rough
translations from the individual Arabic words.

"However, the real point of using Daesh is that it separates the terrorists from
the religion they claim to represent and from the false dream of a new caliphate
that they claim to pursue.

"It should become the official policy of the Government and be followed by the
broadcasting organisations."

Mr Salmond said Foreign Office advice that Tunisia's beaches were safe looked
"hopelessly complacent" after 38 people were killed when a gunman opened fire on
tourists in the resort of Sousse on Friday .

He said: "For every hundred or even thousand plots that are foiled one will
surely escape the net.

"That is not an argument for not having an effective security net just a
realisation that the real battle is one for hearts and minds. We have to drain
the dark well from which extremism breeds.

"If we don't then the appalling scenes we have seen on our television screens
this black weekend will be repeated time and time again over the next
generation.

"And many more families will wonder why their loved ones went off on something
as innocent as a fun-filled holiday never to return."

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 12:28 PM GMT

Labour General Election candidate sparks outrage after taking a selfie at scene
of Tunisia terror attack;
AMRAN HUSSAIN, who was a Labour candidate for North East Hampshire, has been
criticised for posing for a picture at the scene of the massacre.

BYLINE: By dailyrecord

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 379 words


A LABOUR candidate for the General Election has been criticised after taking a
selfie on the Tunisian beach where an ISIS gunman opened fire on tourists.

Amran Hussain, 29, stood for Labour in North East Hampshire and was seen using a
selfie stick on the beach in Sousse.

The picture has sparked outrage on Twitter, with users branding the picture
"shameless" and "a disgrace".

But Mr Hussain, who was in the hotel next to the one attacked, has defended the
picture, claiming he spent a long time paying his respects at the crime scene.

He wrote: "On Saturday morning we went to show our respects to all the innocent
people who lost their lives.

"My friends and I walked silently from our hotel to the site with a bouquet of
flowers, where together we laid them down with others' tributes, then held hands
and took a moment to pray for all those who fell victim to the terrorist attack,
their loves ones, and all those who may be affected.

"We also prayed for all the locals and their families who will likely be badly
affected by the lack of tourism for the foreseeable future, we wished them all
the best.

"We took a few pictures to share with the world to show that we care about and
love the country and its people, and that we did go out to the site to show
solidarity and support, and in defiance to the terrorists.

"As you can see we took photos and posted them, for many reasons, to remember,
to show those at home that their loved ones were being remembered, and to show
the Tunisian people we care for them and we will be forever indebted to them
risking their lives to save ours."

"I apologise from the bottom of my heart to anyone who may have been offended by
previous reports in the media relating to this tragedy. Clearly no offence but
only true and great respect was intended."

The British death toll in the Tunisian beach massacre is expected to double to
at least 30, sources have said.

The latest figure comes after Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond warned that it
was highly likely a "significant number" of victims yet to be identified would
be British.

David Cameron has pledged the UK will not be cowed by the atrocity, vowing to
"stand up for our way of life" and insisting the "great British spirit" would
triumph in the face of adversity.

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 11:37 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Scottish holidaymakers end holidays early after beach
shooting;
MANY passengers arriving at Glasgow Airport have opted to end their holiday
early and arrived back on a specially-chartered flight this morning.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,SCOTTISH NEWS

LENGTH: 372 words


SCOTS holidaymakers returning on a flight from Tunisia today said they were glad
to be home, but felt for resort staff.

Many of the passengers arriving at Glasgow Airport had opted to end their break
early and take the specially-chartered Thomson flight which arrived at 6.10am.

Aamer Saeed, 37, from Glasgow's west end, was meant to be on holiday with his
children, aged eight and 12, for another week.

He said: "The kids were really scared and they didn't want to stay any longer.
There was nothing you could do anyway, you just had to stay in.

"I feel sorry for the people there, it's not their fault. But it was
frightening. We just stayed in the hotel, everything was cancelled."

Natalie Martin, a mother from Falkirk, said: "It was quite scary, we are just
glad to be back home.

"The guys in the hotel tried to keep it upbeat for the families there but it was
hard. Most of the hotel came back early.

She said she felt "a bit let down" by the support offered to tourists.

She said: "We had to keep going to the rep all the time, asking if we were safe.
We had to keep going to them."

Rick Martin, 52, from Peterhead in Aberdeenshire, was staying two hotels along
the coast and was on a day trip away when the massacre happened .

He said: "We found out on Friday afternoon, we got phone calls from the UK. It's
very sad.

Asked about the support provided to holidaymakers, he said: "A young lassie, 21
years old, did her best. She told us what she knew."

One female traveller, who did not want to be named, said: "The support has been
great. I just feel for the local people, because it's their livelihood."

Yesterday, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon chaired a second Scottish Government
resilience (SGORR) meeting.

Ms Sturgeon said: "I would like to offer my heartfelt sympathies to everyone who
may have lost a loved one in this attack.

"We are prepared for the possibility that there may be Scottish victims among
those who have lost their lives."

Prayers have been said for Jim and Ann McQuire, from Cumbernauld, North
Lanarkshire, who were killed in the attack, while Holly Graham, from Perth, has
said she is concerned about her parents Billy and Lisa, who had been staying at
one of the hotels attacked in Sousse.

Quick Quiz: News 26/06/2015

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 10:40 AM GMT

Tunisian terror attack: Gunman's dad says son was 'brainwashed' by Islamic
extremists

BYLINE: Rory McKeown

LENGTH: 361 words


TUNISIAN terror gunman Seifeddine Rezgui had his brain 'ruined' by extremists
before carrying out the fatal beach shooting, his father claimed.

Hakim Rezgui said he was 'ashamed' of his son after he brutally murdered up to
38 people - including as many as 30 Brits - on Sousse on Friday.

Speaking outside his home, Mr Regui said: "These people ruined my son's brain
with horrid thoughts and ideas, they broke him."

Mr Rezgui was questioned by police following the atrocity and said he was
shocked by his son's actions.

"I didn't even realise it was happening. He's been going to university and doing
well, and that's all I knew", he told reporters outside his home.

He added: "I wish there had been no victims, no one hurt. I wish it had never
happened. Because when I see the victims I think it could have been my own
family. I had no idea and I am really sorry. I am upset to see those victims."

Hakim Rezgui

His comments come as a picture was being built up of the attacker.

It was revealed the beach terrorist was a cootie-mad breakdancer and a Real
Madrid fan before he was brainwashed by Islamic extremists.

He was known as Safe by friends and a video even emerged of him breakdancing.

But he began posting messages supporting Islamic State on Facebook last year.

Taieb Ghozzi, imam of the Grand Mosque of Kairouan where Rezqui lived, said he
could have been radicalised at a non-government mosque on the outskirts of
Hafuz.

He told Spanish newspaper El Mundo: "I didn't know this young man. He was no-one
he was a complete unknown.

"Maybe he came to the Grand Mosque but it's very large.

"They brainwashed him. There's no other explanation because it's not normal that
a student ends up killing people.

"Mosques don't create terrorism. Here we preach a clean Islam and we carry the
message of the prophet Mahoma."

Related articles THIRTY Brits now believed killed in Tunisia terror shootings
Wimbledon: Extra cops shipped in on day one of championship after terror threat
scare Home Secretary tells Muslim parents to 'shop your kids in' if they are
being radicalised Tunisia terror attack: Brit coma mum could wake up to husband
dead

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 9:13 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Latest updates as British death toll is expected to
double;
THE British death toll in the Tunisian hotel horror is expected to reach at
least 30 as details about the attack and its victims continue to emerge.

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 50 words


Devoted couple Jim and Ann slain on beach days before returning to meet the
Queen

Tunisia terror attack: At least 30 Brits murdered in the massacre on the beach

Honeymoon from Hell: Scots couple return home after dream holiday turned into
nightmare

Live updates: Tunisia massacre British death toll hits 30

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 9:12 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: New video footage shows killer's terrifying rampage
through hotel grounds;
THIS clip, taken by a member of hotel staff, shows terrorist Selfeddine Rezgui
just moments after he opened fire on a beach full of innocent tourists.

BYLINE: By Jon Dean

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 398 words


THIS video clip shows the horrifying moment the man responsible for the Tunisian
beach massacre stalks through a hotel searching for victims.

The horrifying footage, some of the most comprehensive yet to emerge of Friday's
atrocity, shows terrorist Selfeddine Rezgui just moments after he opened fire on
a beach full of innocent tourists.

Taken by a member of the hotel staff - the video shows the incredible bravery of
Tunisian workers as they bid to bring his slaughter to a stop.

As the film begins, panicked locals are scattered around the resort grounds as
the gunman opens fire.

Then word spreads the merciless killer is coming closer - gunshots can be heard,
along with a menacing explosion.

But rather than run, the cameraman picks up a bottle from the bar - prepared to
tackle a man with an automatic weapon with nothing more than glassware.

Then, suddenly, heartless Rezgui is seen sauntering calmly through the grounds,
machine gun in hand.

As the walks to the beach, the courageous concierge follows him - but has to
beat a hasty retreat when the gunman appears to turn down.

But when he final makes it down to the edge of the water - a truly chilling
sight awaits him.

On the sand, where just minutes before carefree holidaymkaers were having the
time of their lives,

him the beach - where the utter devastation brought by his murderous rampage
become clear - bodies and debris litter the beach.

And the cameraman is just yards away when Rezgui is killed by police in a volley
of bullets.

The number of Brits murdered in the Tunisia beach massacre will reach at least
30 and could rise further, Government sources have now warned.

Tunisia Terror attacks: 30 Brits dead in Sousse shooting

So far 15 British and Irish victims of vile jihadi gunman Rezgui, 24, had been
confirmed dead. Sources said the overall total, currently 38, will exceed 40.

Courageous hotel staff follow him to the beach - where the utter devastation
brought by his murderous rampage become clear - bodies and debris litter the
beach.

And the cameraman is just yards away when Rezgui is killed by police in a volley
of bullets.

The number of Brits murdered in the Tunisia beach massacre will reach at least
30 and could rise further, Government sources have now warned.

So far 15 British and Irish victims of vile jihadi gunman Rezgui, 24, had been
confirmed dead. Sources said the overall total, currently 38, will exceed 40.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 9:05 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Brit coma mum could wake up to husband dead

BYLINE: Tom Rawle

LENGTH: 520 words


A BRITISH woman in a coma after being gunned down on Tunisia's terror beach
faces the prospect of waking up to the devastating news that her husband may be
dead.

Allison Heathcote, 48, had been celebrating 30 years of marriage with dad-of-one
Philip, 53, when an ISIS gunman stormed the popular tourist beach on Friday.

The mum, from Felixstowe, Suffolk, was left in a critical condition after being
shot seven times.

She has now been placed in a medically-induced coma.

But fears have grown for husband Philip with family members still yet to receive
any news about him.

Mrs Heathcote's brother Simon Boon said he saw his sister being lifted from a
sunbed in TV footage.

He said the family were relieved to know she was alive.

"We have had one call from the British Embassy saying Allison had been shot but
she is alive and in hospital," he said.

"No-one would ever have expected something like this to happen.

"It's a million-to-one happening."

Simon, Allison's brother

Mr Boon said relatives had tried calling every hospital to find out about
Philip.

But so far they have no information.

Yesterday the couple's son James, 26, was said to be flying out to Sousse -
where the kalahnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui killed at least 38
tourists.

The Islamic State terrorist's killing spree was ended when he was shot dead by
police outside the RIU Imperial Marhaba Hotel.

A bomb was found on his body.

As many as 30 Brits are feared dead in the attacks.

Thousands have been flown home since the attack with many like Philip still
unaccounted for.

Terrified holidaymakers described the horror as the gunman accessed the beach by
jet ski.

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Brit couple gets engaged same night as
killings to defy terrorists THIRTY Brits now believed killed in Tunisia terror
shootings Home Secretary tells Muslim parents to 'shop your kids in' if they are
being radicalised

Frightened Brit Susan Ricketts described how people were "shot in their sun
beds".

She said: "We were beside the beach when we heard machine-gun fire.

"And after that what sounded like an explosion next."

John Yeoman was staying at the ClubHotel Riu Bellevue Park hotel next door and
said Tunisian staff members formed a human chain on the beach to protect their
guests.

He said: "It's amazing what they did. The staff were in a line and they were
shouting at him, saying 'we won't let you through'.

"They shouted: 'You'll have to go through us'."

In another act of defiance, couple Shelley Hay and Ben Wilton decided to prove
to ISIS terrorists that their love could not be broken by the sick attack.

Just hours after running for their lives, they decided to get engaged.

Ben had planned to get down on one knee on Shelley's birthday - the same day as
the attack.

But rather than waiting until they got home to the UK, the lovers from Cardiff
wanted to make sure the terror massacre would not faze them.

Ben said: "First of all I thought: 'I'm going to have to leave it and wait until
we get home.'

"But as the day went on I thought: 'No, actually, they're not going to stop
this.' So I just did it anyway."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Daily Star Online

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:50 AM GMT

GRAPHIC VIDEO: Incredible new clip of Tunisian terror attack gunman's killing
spree

BYLINE: Rory McKeown

LENGTH: 305 words


THIS is the video that shows the sheer terror on the streets of a Tunisian
tourist town as a lone gunman tore through the resort killing dozens of Brits.

brightcove.createExperiences;

The terrifying footage shows people running for their lives as gunfire rips
through Fort El Kantaoui near Sousse.

The video starts with crowds running from the beach where the shooting is
believed to have started.

It then cuts to the streets where loud firing is repeatedly heard.

A corpse is then seen lying in the road.

In another horrifying segment, the person capturing the film rushes past dead
bodies lying next to loungers on the beach.

It also shows the panic within one of the hotels targeted as holiday makers run
from the attackers.

The footage emerged as images of one of the gunmen was widely circulated.

Holding what appears to be a large rifle, the man wanders the streets outside
the hotsl complex wearing a black t-shirt and shorts.

He is captured aiming the rifle near a parked black car.

Later, more photos emerged of a gunman lying face down dead on the road after
appearing to be shot.

It is not known if the men in the pictures are the same.

Witnesses to the murderous rampage said the gunman made his way to the beach on
a jet ski before pulling out a rifle from a parasol.

The Tunisian health ministry said the death toll has risen to at least 37 with
36 injured - 30 or more are expected to be British.

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: At least 37 dead after gunmen slaughter
tourists on their sunbeds Mid-air terror: Flight bound for Tunisia TURNS BACK
after learning of beach massacre Booked to go to Tunisia? Read the latest
official travel advice here Tunisia attack: Dad fighting for his life after
using body as human shield to save fiancee

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDS


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:36 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Security expert warns of imminent UK terror strike;
DR Afzal Ashraf said today marks the first anniversary since ISIS established
their so-called caliphate in Syria and Iraq so the timing could be spot on for
another attack on Westerners.

BYLINE: By Record Reporter

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 486 words


A LEADING counter-terrorism expert has issued a warning over an imminent UK
terror attack.

Dr Afzal Ashraf, a Consultant Fellow at the Royal United Services Institute, has
said an attack could take place in the next 24 hours.

Today, June 29, marks the first anniversary since ISIS established their
so-called caliphate in Syria and Iraq so the timing for another attack on
Westerners is spot on.

The security expert also said that it is no coincidence that the horrific
Tunisia shootings took place when they did because Friday was said to be the
last 'holy day' before the anniversary.

Dr Ashraf warned the Daily Express: "The timing of the atrocious attacks in
Tunisia, France and Kuwait suggest that these events could have stemmed from the
same motivation: to mark the first anniversary of the forming of the caliphate
which will be on Monday.

"Instead of going to a mosque, the form of worship adopted by these people is to
kill innocent people."

Meanwhile it has been reported that more than 600 police have been deployed in
one of the biggest counter-terrorism operations since the London bombings in
2005.

About 400 officers were on stand-by at UK airports this weekend to interview
potential witnesses of the attack in Sousse that claimed the lives of at least
15 Brits.

However Home Secretary Teresa May said this number could change.

Theresa May says there is no no evidence to suggest that Tunisia attacks were
targeted solely on British tourists

Read all the latest Tunisia shooting news here

She said: "The figure for the number of confirmed dead remains at 15, but we
should expect that that figure is going to rise.

  "The process is a complex one. And it is of course imperative that we get it
absolutely right for families, and that can sometimes take time."

Other staff including detectives, forensic specialists and family liaison
officers were in Tunisia to assist in the investigation and to help prevent any
further attacks.

It is believed that the 24-year-old gunman, Seifeddine Rezgui , who was shot
dead by police after the attack, had accomplices.

The number of Brits murdered in the massacre will reach at least 30 and could
rise further, Government sources have warned.

So far 15 British and Irish victims of vile jihadi gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, 24,
had been confirmed dead.

Sources said the overall total, currently 38, will exceed 40.

Tunisian terror attack survivor: 'Blood from victims turned sand colour of
terracotta'

There has been a delay in identifying bodies due to the local coroner who was
insisting on seeing victims' medical records before confirming their
identification.

And Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond said the delay was because many were
"dressed for the beach, not carrying ID physically on them".

He added: "There are a significant number of victims who have not been
positively identified at this time and it is highly likely that a significant
proportion of them will be British."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              June 29, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

MUM IDENTIFIED USING PHOTO OF WEDDING RING;
SLAUGHTER ON THE SUNBEDS: THETHREE IRISH VICTIMS OF IS MANIAC Couple killed in
terror attack had checked out of hotel

BYLINE: BLANAID MURPHY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1132 words


AN Irish woman who died alongside her husband in the Tunisian beach massacre had
to be identified from photos of her wedding ring because her injuries were so
severe.

Martina and Larry Hayes, both in their late 50s, were among the 38 innocent
victims - including Irish mum Lorna Carty - who were blasted to death in the
bloody horror on Friday.

The tragic couple had checked out of their hotel and were enjoying one last
stroll on the sand when they were killed.

Their devastated only daughter Sinead had the harrowing task of identifying her
parents' bodies through photographs because she did not travel to Tunisia.

But housewife Martina's injuries were so severe she could only be identified by
her wedding ring.

Sinead was yesterday comforted by friends and relatives at the family home on
the West Lodge estate in Athlone, Co Westmeath.

A book of condolences was set up in the garden and a steady stream of mourners
arrived throughout the day to pay their respects.

And as preparations got under way to get the bodies of the Irish victims flown
home, it emerged they had decided to take one last stroll along the sand before
their flight back to Dublin when IS gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire.

A source close to the Hayes family said: "Lonnie and Martina had packed their
bags and were ready to get on the bus to the airport, but they had an hour to
spare so they took a stroll to the beach to enjoy the last bit of sun and,
tragically, that's when this attack happened.

"This tragedy had affected so many people, not just in Athlone but into Galway
and Roscommon because the couple had so many friends and relatives."

Meanwhile, a teacher from Tunisia contacted the Irish Mirror to offer her
condolences to the Hayes and Carty families.

Heartbroken Sihem Hassen said: "RIP to them all. We're so sorry for not being
able to protect our friends and guests."

UNSUSPECTING

Larry and Martina had come to the end of their sun-soaked week in the North
African resort when they were among 38 unsuspecting holiday-makers mercilessly
gunned down in the resort in Sousse.

He was a Bus Eireann school bus inspector based in Athlone and a popular figure
in the town.

Martina was a stay-at-home mother originally from the large Kelly farming family
in nearby Kiltoon, Co Roscommon.

Bus Eireann issued a statement yesterday describing Larry - who had worked for
them for 20 years - as "highly regarded by his colleagues".

It added: "Our thoughts and prayers are with the couple's daughter at this
difficult time, and all the extended family."

The owner of a B&B near the couple's home said: "Everyone in the area is
devastated. I didn't know them personally but when we heard it was them everyone
was just so shocked.

"It could have been anyone's mother or father." Another neighbour, who did not
wish to be named, added: "It's so cruel to lose two parents in such terrible
circumstances.

"I only knew them to say hello around the area because they were only living
here a year in the area but they seemed like a lovely couple."

Meanwhile, Bishop Kevin Doran of the Elphin Diocese yesterday said Lonnie and
Martina's lives were stolen in a "mindless act of violence".

He added: "The unprovoked killing of a husband and wife, who wanted nothing more
than to relax together for a few weeks in the sun, is another reminder of how
much unresolved anger there is in our world.

"To suggest that such violent acts can in any way be justified by religious
belief, whether Christian or Islamic, is totally false.

"The one God in whom both Christians and Muslims believe is a God of peace."

Foreign Minister Charlie Flanagan yesterday confirmed the formal identification
of the victims was ongoing and "will take some time".

He revealed: "I spoke this morning with our ambassador on the ground in Tunis
David Cooney and the Consulate staff. They are working closely with the
authorities as we speak.

"I myself have been in contact with family members of the citizens who I
understand and believe have lost their lives.

"It's a particularly sad and difficult time for the families of the loved ones
of those concerned.

"We're actively monitoring the situation pending the full and final
identification of those who have died and those who have been injured but I
don't expect any injury confirmation to any Irish citizens."

Mr Flanagan added that while a travel ban has not been put in place for anyone
travelling to Tunisia, he advised Irish citizens who intend to travel or are
currently there to "remain extremely vigilant". He said: "My travel advice for
Tunisia is to exercise extreme caution.

"Anybody wishing to visit the region, anybody with holidays planned over the
next few days or weeks, I wish to acknowledge the Tunisian authorities have
declared the incident to be over.

"Nevertheless I would urge Irish citizens heading there and those in Tunisia to
remain extremely vigilant, to follow any instructions given to them by police,
by the tour operators, by the hotels and anybody wishing to plan a holiday in
the immediate vicinity of the region, I would ask that extreme caution be
adhered to at all times.

"This is a very difficult area. I believe as far as Tunisia is concerned, we are
working closely with the authorities in Tunisia, police reports, intelligence
reports, we are working closely with tour operators.

"I would do no more at present than to advise people to be vigilant, to be
particularly careful about proceeding with their travel plans and to exercise
caution.

CAUTIOUS

"I'm not in the business of imposing travel bans but I would say to people be
extremely vigilant and extremely cautious in implementing any holiday plans in
the region and keep in close contact with the tour operators and the police
authorities.

"There is an ongoing review and regular and constant monitoring of the security
situation with intelligence agencies and the police in Tunisia, as indeed is the
case in other countries. The advice for travel to Tunisia changed on Friday in
light of the attack and our advice now is to exercise extreme caution."

Mother-of-two Lorna Carthy from Meath was killed in the horror beach massacre
while other Irish holiday-makers ran for their lives.

Nurse Lorna's husband Declan, who is recovering from heart surgery, was in their
hotel room having a nap when his wife was shot dead.

Dr Ali Selim, spokesman for the Clonskeagh Mosque in Dublin, last night told the
Irish Mirror: "The Islamic centre expresses its condemnation for any crimes
perpetrated against innocent people.

"Incidents of this nature affects Muslims the worst because it destroys the
image of Islam. We hope the incident can be treated as an isolated crime"

news@irishmirror.ie

TUNISIAN HUMAN SHIELD: PAGES 6&7 IRISH MIRROR COMMENT: PAGE 14

Everyone is devastated. It could have been anyone's mum or dad B&B OWNER NEAR
HOME IN CO WESTMEATH

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERN Charlie FlanaganSUPPORT SYSTEM Sinead Hayes, below, with
well-wishers in Co Westmeath yesterdayRESPECTS Mourner signs book of
condolencesVICTIM Larry Hayes and his wife Martina were killed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Mirror

                              June 29, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

MUM IDENTIFIED USING PHOTO OF WEDDING RING;
SLAUGHTER ON THE SUNBEDS: THETHREE IRISH VICTIMS OF IS MANIAC Couple killed in
terror attack had checked out of hotel

BYLINE: BLANAID MURPHY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1126 words


THE tragic Irish couple gunned down in the Tunisian beach massacre were enjoying
one last stroll on the sand before their flight home.

Larry and Martina Hayes, from Athlone, Co Westmeath, were among the 38 innocent
victims - including Irish mum Lorna Carty - blasted to death by an IS gunman on
Friday.

The couple, both in their late 50s, had checked out of their hotel and were
walking on the beach when they were killed.

Their devastated only daughter Sinead had the harrowing task of identifying her
parents' bodies through photographs because she did not travel to Tunisia.

But housewife Martina's injuries were so severe she could only be identified by
her wedding ring.

Sinead was yesterday comforted by friends and relatives at the family home on
the West Lodge estate in Athlone, Co Westmeath.

A book of condolences was set up in the garden and a steady stream of mourners
arrived throughout the day to pay their respects.

And as preparations got under way to get the bodies of the Irish victims flown
home, it emerged they had decided to take one last stroll along the sand before
their flight back to Dublin when IS gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire.

A source close to the Hayes family said: "Lonnie and Martina had packed their
bags and were ready to get on the bus to the airport, but they had an hour to
spare so they took a stroll to the beach to enjoy the last bit of sun and,
tragically, that's when this attack happened.

"This tragedy had affected so many people, not just in Athlone but into Galway
and Roscommon because the couple had so many friends and relatives."

Meanwhile, a teacher from Tunisia contacted the Daily Mirror to offer her
condolences to the Hayes and Carty families.

Heartbroken Sihem Hassen said: "RIP to them all. We're so sorry for not being
able to protect our friends and guests."

UNSUSPECTING

Larry and Martina had come to the end of their sun-soaked week in the North
African resort when they were among 38 unsuspecting holiday-makers mercilessly
gunned down in the resort in Sousse.

He was a Bus Eireann school bus inspector based in Athlone and a popular figure
in the town.

Martina was a stay-at-home mother originally from the large Kelly farming family
in nearby Kiltoon, Co Roscommon.

Bus Eireann issued a statement yesterday describing Larry - who had worked for
them for 20 years - as "highly regarded by his colleagues".

It added: "Our thoughts and prayers are with the couple's daughter at this
difficult time, and all the extended family."

The owner of a B&B near the couple's home said: "Everyone in the area is
devastated. I didn't know them personally but when we heard it was them everyone
was just so shocked.

"It could have been anyone's mother or father." Another neighbour, who did not
wish to be named, added: "It's so cruel to lose two parents in such terrible
circumstances.

"I only knew them to say hello around the area because they were only living
here a year in the area but they seemed like a lovely couple."

Meanwhile, Bishop Kevin Doran of the Elphin Diocese yesterday said Lonnie and
Martina's lives were stolen in a "mindless act of violence".

He added: "The unprovoked killing of a husband and wife, who wanted nothing more
than to relax together for a few weeks in the sun, is another reminder of how
much unresolved anger there is in our world.

"To suggest that such violent acts can in any way be justified by religious
belief, whether Christian or Islamic, is totally false.

"The one God in whom both Christians and Muslims believe is a God of peace."

Irish Foreign Minister Charlie Flanagan yesterday confirmed the formal
identification of the victims was ongoing and "will take some time".

He revealed: "I spoke this morning with our ambassador on the ground in Tunis
David Cooney and the Consulate staff. They are working closely with the
authorities as we speak. I myself have been in contact with family members of
the citizens who I understand and believe have lost their lives.

"It's a particularly sad and difficult time for the families of the loved ones
of those concerned.

"We're actively monitoring the situation pending the full and final
identification of those who have died and those who have been injured but I
don't expect any injury confirmation to any Irish citizens."

Mr Flanagan added that while a travel ban has not been put in place for anyone
travelling to Tunisia, he advised Irish citizens who intend to travel or are
currently there to "remain extremely vigilant".

He said: "My travel advice for Tunisia is to exercise extreme caution. Anybody
wishing to visit the region, anybody with holidays planned over the next few
days or weeks, I wish to acknowledge the Tunisian authorities have declared the
incident to be over.

"Nevertheless I would urge Irish citizens heading there and those in Tunisia to
remain extremely vigilant, to follow any instructions given to them by police,
by the tour operators, by the hotels and anybody wishing to plan a holiday in
the immediate vicinity of the region, I would ask that extreme caution be
adhered to at all times.

"This is a very difficult area. "I believe as far as Tunisia is concerned, we
are working closely with the authorities in Tunisia, police reports,
intelligence reports, we are working closely with tour operators. I would do no
more at present than to advise people to be vigilant, to be particularly careful
about proceeding with their travel plans and to exercise caution.

CAUTIOUS

"I'm not in the business of imposing travel bans but I would say to people be
extremely vigilant and extremely cautious in implementing any holiday plans in
the region and keep in close contact with the tour operators and the police
authorities.

"There is an ongoing review and regular and constant monitoring of the security
situation with intelligence agencies and the police in Tunisia, as indeed is the
case in other countries.

"The advice for travel to Tunisia changed on Friday in light of the attack and
our advice now is to exercise extreme caution."

Mother-of-two Lorna Carthy from Meath was killed in the horror beach massacre
while other Irish holidaymakers ran for their lives.

Nurse Lorna's husband Declan, who is recovering from heart surgery, was in their
hotel room having a nap when his wife was shot dead.

Dr Ali Selim, spokesman for the Clonskeagh Mosque in Dublin, last night told the
Daily Mirror: "The Islamic centre expresses its condemnation for any crimes
perpetrated against innocent people.

"Incidents of this nature affects Muslims the worst because it destroys the
image of Islam.

"We hope the incident can be treated as an isolated crime."

news@irishmirror.ie

TUNISIAN HUMAN SHIELD: PAGES 8&9

VOICE OF THE MIRROR: PAGE 10

"Everyone is devastated. It could have been anyone's mum or dad B&B OWNER NEAR
HOME IN CO WESTMEATH

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERN Charlie FlanaganPICTURE: JAMES FLYNN/APXSUPPORT SYSTEM Sinead
Hayes, below, with well-wishers in Co Westmeath yesterdayRESPECTS Mourner signs
book of condolencesVICTIM Larry Hayes and his wife Martina were killed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMR


                            Copyright 2015 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Derby Telegraph

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Tunisia attack 'own goal' for the terrorists

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 14-15

LENGTH: 269  words


THE dignity of the son of terror victim Scott Chalkley, and of the people of
Tunisia, could not be in starker contrast to the rabid savagery of his killers.

Mr Chalkley, from Derby, and his partner, from Staffordshire, were among British
victims of the atrocity in Tunisia.

They were gunned down in an act of random savagery - they just happened to be in
the wrong place at the wrong time.

Revealing the news of his father's death, his son Ross was quick, at this
devastatingly sad time for him, to thank all the people who have helped him and
supported him, saying: "You have all been amazing."

He adds simply: "One love to all. Rest in peace dad."

The quiet dignity of the Tunisian people has also been touching in the aftermath
of the outrage.

They marched carrying banners proclaiming simply "no to terrorism", holding
their country's flag and the Union flag alongside.

The cynical, self-serving seekers of power who dispatched the killers to do
their deadly work will consider the murders in Tunisia a victory.

It is nothing of the sort.

It will only see the people of this peaceful country revolt against terror, and
re-double efforts to guard holidaymakers of other countries who enjoy their
hospitality.

The down-to-earth attitude of a Derbyshire couple staying near the scene of the
attack is commendable and heartening. Brenda and Steven Heathcote don't want to
let the terrorists win and have said they are determined to stay there and make
the most of their holiday.

What a contrast to the US internet giants who won't do enough to tackle the web
grooming of vulnerable and weak young men by the terror masters...

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Derby Telegraph

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Family of man killed in terrorist attack pay tribute to a 'great dad'

BYLINE: BY ISAAC CROWSON; 01332 411999; isaac.crowson@; derbytelegraph.co.uk;
@icrowson

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 2-3

LENGTH: 624  words


THE family of a Derby man who was killed in the Tunisia massacre have paid
tribute to the "great man and a great dad".

Father-of-two Scott Chalkley, of Chaddesden, was confirmed as one of the victims
of the terrorist attack  on a beach in Sousse, late on Saturday night by his
son, Ross Naylor.

Ross, of Sinfin, launched an online appeal to try and find his dad after he
couldn't contact him following the attack.

He later revealed on social media that his dad and his partner, Sue Davey, of
Tamworth, had died in the atrocity.

His Twitter message read: "Tonight, me and Brad lost our dad. Unfortunately, he
was caught up in the sickening attacks in Tunisia and is no longer with us.

"I feel I had to put this message out as many of you have been asking about him
and asking for an update.

"I'm sure many of you have seen the news about Sue as well, so all I ask is that
people let both families grieve in peace.

"We are all trying to come to grips and process with what's happened. I want to
say thanks to everyone who has helped. You have all been amazing. One love to
all. Rest in peace dad."

Mr Chalkley's former partner, Wendie Naylor, said his two "lovely sons" have
been left devastated by the news.

Wendie, of Sinfin, said: "Scott was a fantastic dad who loved his two boys.
Words really can't describe what has happened.

"Although we'd separated we would still speak regularly and were still good
mates.

"I want to say a huge thank you to the people that have helped us since it
happened.

"He was a best mate to many, that's how people are talking about him and I'm
sure that's how he will be remembered.

"The support from family and friends now will be really important."

Wendie described how the family are struggling to digest the news.

She said: "We can't believe how it's happened, it's awful and it's really,
really hard to understand.

"I don't know how the lads are going to cope with it. We will all have to pull
together and help each other."

Mr Chalkley, who works for Severn Trent Water, flew out to Tunisia on Wednesday
and spoke to Ross's mum on Thursday,  the day before he was shot dead by the
terrorist with links to Islamic State.

At least 15 British people have been confirmed as dead and at least 39 people in
total.

Mr Chalkley's neighbour, Lisa Shorland, 26, a nursery nurse, said: "He was a
nice and good bloke and he would always be poking fun at my parking. I would
have a laugh with him and he was genuine.

"He will be missed on the street a great deal.

"I've laid some flowers for him outside his home as a mark of respect."

Another neighbour  Ian Bulmer, 43, said he would often chat to Mr Chalkley and
said he was a keen tennis player. He said: "We had  a bit of banter about his
tennis shorts, it was all fun and he was a good bloke.

"He would moan about aches and pains and I'd joke that he should stop playing at
his age.

"I think what's happened is heartbreaking for his family.  I can't believe it.
My heart goes out to them.

"It was a cowardly act to kill innocent tourists."

Adrian Fuller, 44, , said he would always speak to Mr Chalkley and described him
as a "really nice bloke".

He said: "He was really sound and a great family man. He would play with his
children and we would often speak.

"What's happened is really awful and shocking. It's terrible to think he's died.
You hear these incidents on the news and in newspapers, but you don't think the
people involved will live next door.

"My thoughts are now with his family, who must be going through hell. I've been
all over the world on holiday to places like Kenya and Sri Lanka where there has
been trouble over the years. But you don't think it will happen at your resort."

Couple 'won't let the terrorists beat them' and will stay on to finish holiday -
Pages 4&5

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mounted police officers patrol on the beach of Sousse, Tunisia, where
the British death toll is expected to rise to at least 30 after a terrorist
attack on Friday. The dead include, Derby's Scott Chalkley, far left, and his
partner, Sue Davey.
Neighbour Ian Bulmer describes Mr Chalkley as a "good bloke".

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 10:05 AM GMT

Tunisia Terror Attack: Huddersfield honeymoon couple stuck in Tunisian resort
after terror attack;
Massive international police investigation now underway

BYLINE: By Louise Cooper

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 327 words


A Huddersfield honeymoon couple and their young son are among those waiting to
be evacuated after a deadly terror attack in Tunisia.

Lee and Jessica Goldspink, of Cowlersley, are staying in Sousse with their
two-year-old son and were among many guests locked in a hotel as news of the
terror attack broke.

The pair, who married at Briar Court Hotel last month, are in a resort around
three miles from the scene where 39 people were killed in the gun rampage.
Yesterday it was confirmed that at least 15 Britons have died.

Home Secretary Theresa May said the British deaths figure was expected to rise
as more information comes out.

Jessica's sister Sophie said: "They were told on Friday night that Thomson have
10 planes which are evacuating tourists back home but they haven't heard
anymore.

"They have met another couple from Brighouse and were chatting with them as they
all want the same thing, to leave safely."

The killing spree by Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui targeted
western tourists on the beach at the RIU Imperial Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue
and only ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his body.

Investigators have revealed they are looking for at least one more accomplice.

Thousands of British tourists have been returning to the UK after cutting short
their holidays.

Scotland Yard said more than 600 officers were involved in what was its largest
counter-terrorism operation since the 7/7 bombings.

Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, national policing lead for
counter-terrorism, said 16 detectives and forensic experts were already in
Tunisia to help local officers, with almost 400 meeting survivors at UK airports
to identify possible witnesses.

He said: "Because of the scale of the attack, the numbers of fatalities and the
international nature of it, it is likely that several hundred counter-terrorism
and other police officers and staff will be working on this case for some time."

Terrorist attack in Tunisia

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 11:14 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Ex-Birmingham City footballer Denis Thwaites and wife
killed

BYLINE: Tom Parfitt

LENGTH: 429 words


A FORMER footballer and his wife have become the latest British victims of the
Tunisian beach terror attack to be named.

PA · MIRROR

Denis and Elaine Thwaites were reportedly killed by an Islamist gunman

Ex-Birmingham City player Denis Thwaites is reported to have been killed in the
horrendous attack on Friday.

The couple, aged 70 and 69, had arrived in Sousse on Wednesday and were staying
at the Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba when an Islamist gunman went on the rampage.

Thwaites was part of the squad that won the club's first major honour - the 1963
League Cup - but retired aged just 27.

Related articles  Tunisia terror attack: National minute's silence for
British...  Security stepped up at Muslim graves after 'hate crime' attack in...

The club tweeted: "We are deeply shocked and saddened by the death of former
player Denis Thwaites and his wife Elaine in the Tunisian terrorist attack.

"Our thoughts are with Denis' family. The club also offers its condolences to
all who are mourning loved ones due to this atrocity."

We are deeply shocked and saddened by the death of former player Denis Thwaites
and his wife Elaine in the Tunisian terrorist attack

- Birmingham City FC June 29, 2015

Our thoughts are with Denis' family. The Club also offers its condolences to all
who are mourning loved ones due to this atrocity

- Birmingham City FC June 29, 2015

Former team-mate Garry Pendrey described him as a "lovely, lovely man" and a
"terrific player".

He said: "He had tremendous ability. He could go past people, score goals.

"Unfortunately he wasn't really able to reproduce his talents on a consistent
basis, he had a problem with nerves."

MIRROR

Denis won the League Cup with Birmingham City in 1963

The family of the couple, from Blackpool, Lancashire, had appealed for
information online about their whereabouts after the tragedy.

His daughter Lindsey and son-in-law Danny Clifford there was now a void in their
lives.

They described the couple as "the kindest, caring, loving parents any daughter
could wish for".

Gordon Marsden, MP for Blackpool South, said: "Very sad to hear Denis and Elaine
Thwaites from Blackpool among those killed in the terrorist attack in Sousse and
condolences to their family."

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Labour candidate sparks outrage by
taking SELFIE at massacre site Tunisia horror couple: We got engaged to show
love beats hate VIDEO: Footage shows astounding bravery of hotel workers
attempting to stop Tunisia killer Tunisia terror attack: Brave teen who tried to
protect Britons by throwing ROCKS at killer

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:43 PM GMT

Britain warned: Expect new terror attack TOMORROW

BYLINE: Marco Giannangeli

LENGTH: 243 words


BRITAIN and Europe should be braced for possible terror attacks TODAY, a leading
security expert said last night.

REUTERS

One of the suspected gunmen from the shootings in Tunisia on Friday

The date marks the first anniversary of Islamic State setting up its so-called
caliphate in Syria and Iraq.

Dr Afzal Ashraf warned: "The timing of the atrocious attacks in Tunisia, France
and Kuwait suggest that these events could have stemmed from the same
motivation: to mark the first anniversary of the forming of the caliphate which
will be on Monday.

"Friday was significant, as it was the last holy day before this anniversary.
Instead of going to a mosque, the form of worship adopted by these people is to
kill innocent people.

brightcove.createExperiences; Related articles Massacre raises the question: Are
any of us safe anywhere? Cameron urges Britons to 'keep calm & carry on' as ISIS
attack on Armed Forces Day FOILED

"And it is very likely IS will try to grab the headlines again in the next four
or five days with another flurry of activity. This real risk will continue until
the end of Ramadan, around July 19."

Thousands of Britons defied an increased terror alert on Saturday to attend
parades around the UK to mark Armed Forces Day.

More than 900 marched in Guildford, Surrey, at a parade attended by David
Cameron and Prince Andrew.

A threat by a suicide bomber to target a parade in Merton, south-west London,
was thwarted by police.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:34 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: National minute's silence for British victims of beach
massacre

BYLINE: Alix Culbertson, Nick Gutteridge & Rebecca Perring

LENGTH: 932 words


A MINUTE of silence will be held nationwide on Friday to remember the victims of
the Tunisia terror attack, David Cameron has announced.

Reuters·EPA

David Cameron speaking today as Theresa May visited Sousse with the Tunisian
interior minister  brightcove.createExperiences;

The act of remembrance will take place at 12 noon - a week after the bloody
massacre of at least 30 British holidaymakers.

In an emotional speech following the horrific beach attack by 23-year-old
student Seifeddine Rezgui, The Prime Minister said Britain will stand by Tunisia
in the fight against extremism and vowed: "Together we will prevail."

Mr Cameron also announced that the Government has decided not to advise Britons
against holidaying at Tunisia's beach resorts, saying people must not "give up
our way of life" in the face of terrorism.

Appearing before a sombre Parliament this afternoon in a black tie, the Prime
Minister confirmed "with great sadness" that the British body count from
Friday's massacre has now reached 18, and is likely to rise to at least 30 out
of the total 38 victims.

In a defiant speech met with near silence he told the Commons: "We must confront
this evil with everything we have."

He said: "We must be stronger in standing up for our values and we must be more
intolerant of intolerance, taking on anyone whose views condone the extremist
narrative or create the conditions for it to flourish.

"We must take on the radical narrative that is poisoning young minds. The people
who do these things do it in the name of a twisted and perverted ideology which
hijacks the Islamic faith and holds that mass murder and terror are not only
acceptable but are necessary."

The Prime Minister promised to hand more powers to Britain's security services
to tackle Islamic State's increasingly sophisticated use of technology to spread
extremist propaganda and recruit vulnerable western Muslims to its cause.

However, he revealed that an emergency meeting of the Government's COBRA
committee had decided against altering official advice to warn against "all but
essential" travel to Tunisia.

He said: "Nowhere is without risk of Islamist extremist terrorism. Until we have
defeated this threat we must resolve as a country to carry on living our lives
alongside it.

"We will not give up our way of life or cower in the face of terrorism.

He added: "These terrorists tried to strike at places of hope, in a country with
a flourishing tourist industry that is on the road to democracy, and a mosque in
Kuwait that dared to bring Sunnis and Shias together.

"But the Tunisians and the Kuwaitis will not have that hope taken away from
them, they will not be cowed by terror and we will stand with them.

"This is not the war between Islam and the west that ISIL want people to
believe. It is a generational struggle between a minority of extremists who want
hatred to flourish and the set of us who want freedom to prosper and together we
will prevail."

Sky

Theresa May addressed journalists after visiting the scene of the attack in
Tunisia

Earlier today Home Secretary Theresa May vowed Britain will not be beaten by
Islamist terrorists as she visited the Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel where the
bloody atrocity took place.

Tunisian officials also confirmed a "significant number" of people associated
with killer Rezgui have today been arrested.

Speaking defiantly but sombrely, Mrs May called the attack a "despicable act of
cruelty" and said "the terrorists will not win".

The Conservative minister revealed she had been told of the horror stories of
victims during a visit to the site and in a meeting with her Tunisian, French
and German counterparts moments before.

Mrs May said: "Our thoughts are with the victims and their families but I've
also heard stories of great bravery as well - the young man who shielded his
fianceé from the bullets, the staff at the hotel who protected their guests.

"President Essebsi is the first democratically elected president of Tunisia.
Tunisia is a symbol of what is possible.

"We will all fight together against this perverted ideology that is causing
death and destruction.

"We are very clear that the terrorists will not win. We will be united to ensure
we defeat them but united also in working to defend our values.

Mrs May added they discussed "concrete ways" in which the UK and Tunisian
governments can work to deal with "this terrible threat which we all face".

The Home Secretary reiterated Prime Minister David Cameron's sentiments this
morning to resolve to defeat those who threaten our democracy.

Getty

Seifeddine Rezgui shot 38 tourists in the Islamist attack

The Foreign Office's travel advice for Tunisia has not yet changed but Mrs May
said a team is in the country "looking at protective security" and will be
making assessments in the coming days.

French interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve spoke after Mrs May and said: "It is
time to say we are united; that was the theme of our meeting".

He also said France is "determined to win the war against terrorism".

Thomas de Maizière, Germany's interior minister, said he has "tremendous
respect" for the tourists who decided to stay after the horrific attack.

Najem Gharsalli, the Tunisian interior minister, said 1,000 extra armed police
have been deployed to 692 beaches, tourist sites and resorts across the country
and reservists are also being called up.

He added that Tunisia is fighting terrorism because it "loves democracy and has
chosen democracy".

He also revealed a group of people associated with killer Rezgui have been
detained and a group was seen "looking suspicious" just before the attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:29 PM GMT

France terror attack: Jihadist who beheaded boss posed for 'SELFIE' with
victim's head

BYLINE: Suz Elvey

LENGTH: 347 words


AN ISLAMIC State jihadist suspected of beheading his boss and trying to blow up
a factory in France posed for a selfie with his victim's head, officials have
claimed.

GETTY

Manager Herve Cornara was beheaded in an attack in France

Yassin Salhi, 35, then sent the sick photo to a Canadian mobile phone number via
the What'sApp messaging service, according to a report in The Sunday Times.

French media reported that the phone's owner was in Syria at the time.

Unconfirmed reports suggest Salhi has now confessed to the terror act having
refused to speak to French police yesterday or Friday.

Salhi was a regular delivery driver to the Air Products gas and chemical plant,
which houses hazardous substances such as acetate - a highly flammable material
used to make bombs.

He is accused of decapitating his employer, 54-year-old Hervé Cornara, after
driving to the factory near Lyon on Friday morning with him as a passenger.

Cornara's head was then impaled on a spiked fence and his body dumped 30ft away,
at the factory site in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier.

Homemade Islamist flags were placed next to the severed head.

Related articles  French factory attack: Hate preacher Anjem Choudhary blames
the...  ISIS terror suspect got chemical plant delivery job while French...

Claiming he was acting for ISIS, Salhi is also alleged to have set off a number
of explosions, injuring at least two people.

He was then caught by firefighters trying to open canisters of the highly
explosive acetate.

French intelligence services were facing tough questions this morning after it
emerged Salhi got the job at the hazardous chemical plant while they were
monitoring him.

He had been on the French security services' radar for nine years but they
decided in 2008 he was not high risk, according to reports.

The father-of-three, who does not have a criminal record, reportedly refused to
talk to French police following his arrest.

His wife and sister and an unnamed man were also arrested but the man has been
released without charge.

brightcove.createExperiences;

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 11:11 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Brave teen who tried to protect Britons by throwing ROCKS
at killer

BYLINE: Alix Culbertson

LENGTH: 429 words


A BRAVE teenager who heroically tried to protect British tourists by throwing
ROCKS at the Tunisia terror attack gunman was told: "I am not here to kill you".

Getty·SWNS

Killer Seifeddine Rezgui murdered 39 people, including 30 Britons

Ibrahim el Ghoul, 18, had his life spared by Islamic State jihadist Seifeddine
Rezgui because he was a fellow Arab, as the killer slaughtered 38 holidaymakers
at the Sousse resort.

Mr el Ghoul, who hires out jet skis on El Kantaoui beach, heard gunshots on
Friday so called his boss saying there was a terrorist attack at the other end
of the beach.

In a chilling account of the attack, he said: "So I dropped everything and ran
all the way up there.

"I don't know why. The first thing I thought was this is my work and I have to
protect the guests.

"When I got there I found four British tourists, one man, two women and a girl,
who were swimming down the beach, trying to get away.

"They were so scared. So I jumped into the water and tried to protect them and
take them to a boat that was near there.

"When I was taking the first one into the boat, someone said: 'He's out! He's
out!' I saw the terrorist coming out of the hotel with a gun in his hand.

Related articles Tunisia terror attack: Father of killer 'so sorry' for son's
shooting rampage Tunisia terror attack: Labour candidate sparks outrage by
taking SELFIE at massacre site Tunisia terror: Killer 'didn't act alone' as
British couple claim SECOND gunman shot them

"He looked towards me swimming with these people because he heard their screams.

"He raised the gun and aimed at me. He didn't see I was an Arab. I gathered the
four people close to me and turned my back towards him and shouted 'Allahu
Akhbar' [God is greatest], very loud.

"When he heard Allahu Akbar he lowered his gun and went on walking along the
beach.

"Then I decided to go after him. So I took a jet ski and caught up to where he
was.

"I picked up rocks and was throwing them at him, anything I could. I was about
seven metres behind him. I was saying bad words in Arabic at him.

"But he just kept smiling. He walked about five metres and stopped, turned
around and said: 'I am not here to kill you. Turn around and go home.' That was
the last thing I heard from him."

Soon after that Rezgui, 23, was shot dead by police.

Humble Mr el Ghoul, who was born and raised in Sousse, brushed off claims he was
a hero.

He said: "I am not a hero; this was what I had to do. I love my country so
much."

At least 38 of Rezgui's victims are feared to have been British, as it today
emerged the jihadist was unlikely to have acted alone.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 9:04 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Labour candidate sparks outrage by taking SELFIE at
massacre site

BYLINE: Peter Henn

LENGTH: 479 words


A LABOUR party parliamentary candidate has sparked outrage after he took a
selfie at the site of the Tunisia massacre.

IG

Amran Hussain sparked controversy by taking a selfie at the site of the Sousse
massacre

Amran Hussain, who stood for the safe Conservative seat of North East Hampshire
in last month's election, was spotted holding a so-called 'selfie stick' to take
a photo of himself in front of floral tributes on the beach in Sousse.

Just two days earlier, on the same spot, Seifeddine Rezgui killed 38
holidaymakers - at least 30 of whom were British.

Mr Hussain, who works as a national delivery officer for the NHS and serves as
an Army reservist, said he was there to pay his respects and argued that selfies
were not banned.

The 29-year-old told Mail Online: "Selfies are not banned. I don't see anything
wrong with it.

"We were not capturing a happy moment, we were very distressed after what
happened and we went down to the beach for 30 minutes to show solidarity.

"We laid flowers and wrote a tribute and prayed to those who lost their lives in
the horrific massacre.

"We would have asked someone else to take a picture of us, but we were in the
moment and we wanted to take a picture with the tribute and flowers we had put
down.

"It has been taken completely out of context. It was all very upsetting and we
just wanted to have a reminder of what happened.

"I just happened to be using a selfie stick as that is what I always use."

FACEBOOK

Amran Hussain posted this more measured tribute on his Facebook page

Mr Hussain, who has previously been pictured with former Labour leader Ed
Miliband, was on holiday with four friends who were also in the self-taken
photo.

Now back in the UK, Mr Hussain wrote on his Facebook page: "We left Tunisia with
a very heavy heart, but we will not allow terror to dictate our lives. Tunisia
is a beautiful place with kind and peaceful people.

'We went out onto our hotel beach today and paid our respects to those who lost
their lives.

"My thoughts shall remain for years with all those lives that were lost there,
and also for the millions of struggling Tunisian families whose household income
would be affected due to the negative effect on their tourism industry.

"This is what the terrorists wanted and we must not give in I shall of course
return back to Tunisia."

However, Mr Hussain's decision to take a selfie was heavily criticised on social
media.

Twitter user Paula branded him an "absolute scumbag", adding: "You don't take
photos and post them on social media for a cyber pat on the back."

Mark Olrog tweeted: "A bad 21st century trait. People turning up and taking
selfies of #Tunisia terror beach, apparently."

Related articles Britain warned: Expect new terror attack TOMORROW Send in SAS
to crush Jihadis: Demand for action after beach slaughter Tunisia terror attack:
Father of killer 'so sorry' for son's shooting rampage

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Express Online

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 7:45 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Father of killer 'so sorry' for son's shooting rampage

BYLINE: Sarah Westcott

LENGTH: 478 words


THE father of the gunman who shot dead 38 people in the Tunisia beach massacre
has spoken of his shame at his son's actions.

GETTY

Rezgui in a picture posted on an IS-linked site on Saturday

Hakim Rezgui said when he had heard the news he could not "comprehend" it and
that he was "really sorry" for the lives lost.

Seifeddine Rezgui, who used the jihadist pseudonym Abu Yahya Al Qayrawani,
grinned as he picked off innocent tourists with a Kalashnikov rifle at the
resort of Sousse.

The 23-year-old aviation student, who was not known to the authorities, came
from the quiet town of Gaafour and studied at the University of Kairouan.

He had never been abroad and was known by friends and neighbours as a "good" boy
who was "never in trouble" with anyone.

The gunman's aunt Zara Rezgui described him as a kind, calm, "normal boy" who
spent most of the time alone.

His uncle, Ali Al Rezgui, said his nephew was "just like the other young men"
who liked to play football or go to local cafes.

He used hair gel and wore the "nicest of clothes", enjoyed breakdancing and was
well known for entering competitions in the capital Tunis.

A video on what appears to be his Facebook account shows Rezgui in a hooded top,
baseball cap and jeans performing handstands and backflips to a techno
soundtrack.

Rezgui was an avid user of social media, sharing jokes, posts about music,
football and - more recently - IS propaganda videos.

His last Facebook post, dated New Year, is reported to say: "May God take me out
of this unjust world and perish its people and make them suffer.

"They just remember you when you die."

Released by police today, Mr Rezgui, a labourer who earns less than £10 a day,
said: "My God, I am so shocked.

I don't know who has contacted him, influenced him or who has put these ideas in
his head."

He told ITV News: "When I see the victims I think it could have been my own
family.

"I had no idea and I am really sorry... I am so ashamed for me, for his mother,
for all our family."

Mr Rezgui said he rarely saw his son who lived with four other students in the
town of Kairouan around 36 miles from Sousse.

Neighbours were said to be alarmed by their extremist ideology and said the
students had recently stopped leaving the house during the day.

A local student said Rezgui's behaviour had changed over the past two years, and
he began to frequent mosques outside government control.

The student claimed Rezgui would often travel to the capital Tunis to meet
radical Islamists.

Monia Riahi, 50, a neighbour and family friend, said: "I've known him since he
was small.

"He was never in trouble with anyone ever. Maybe he was brainwashed or
something."

Related articles Time to face the extremism taking hold in Britain says Leo
McKinstry Send in SAS to crush Jihadis: Demand for action after beach slaughter
Tunisia terror attack: Scots killed in the massacre, others are missing

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDE


              Copyright 2015 Northern and Shell Media Publications
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 29, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Britain's security clampdown as new terror attack is feared;
slaughter on beach

BYLINE: John Chapman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 652 words


BRITAIN was on terror alert last night after police increased security at
Wimbledon in the wake of the slaughter of British holidaymakers on a Tunisian
beach.

Islamic State fanatics have promised an orgy of violence against the West,
putting high-profile events in the UK at risk including the tennis tournament
and the Ashes cricket series starting next week.

IS has called for attacks during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan which ends on
July 19.

Yesterday, the Metropolitan Police said "amendments" have been made to
Wimbledon's security regime.

Extra officers are patrolling south-west London - including some in plain
clothes - and road closures will be in place with more than 600 anti-terror
detectives drafted in on Britain's streets.

There will also be a "highly mobile reserve that can respond to incidents".

Chief Superintendent Stuart Macleod said: "We have reflected on previous
operational plans and amended these where necessary to ensure we deliver a safe
and secure Championships for 2015. This year's event will be policed to a level
proportionate with the current threat level." Scotland Yard officers are
investigating why a drone was directed above the tennis tournament at the
weekend.

Security was raised for Armed Forces Day and the Pride march in London.

Home Secretary Theresa May chaired a meeting of the Government's emergency Cobra
committee yesterday as the Foreign Office warned of possible further attacks in
Tunisia.

It was also revealed that a number of officers have flown out to help
investigate the attack at Sousse. Last night Tunisian authorities said they were
searching for accomplices of the gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, who was shot dead in
a side-alley. Mohammed Ali Aroui, from Tunisia's Interior Ministry, said: "We
are sure that others helped but did not participate."

Rezgui's father, Hakim, was questioned by police along with the student's three
university roommates but all were later released. IS has claimed responsibility
for the attack, posting a sickening tribute to the killer online.

In Britain, 400 officers are at airports to interview returning holidaymakers
and Scotland Yard has urged anyone who was in the Sousse resort to contact them
A spokesman said: "We've deployed a large number... both in terms of our own
evidence gathering - forensic experts, helping the Tunisian authorities - and
also we've got experts in family liaison."

He added that 16 officers "were deployed [to Tunisia] within hours of the attack
and will be joined by more specialist counter terrorism officers in the coming
days". David Cameron repeated warnings that Britain was facing a long-term
threat.

Extremists He asked for flags over Number 10 to be flown at half-mast "in memory
of the victims of the terrorist attack in Tunisia".

The threat level in Britain is severe, meaning an attack is "highly likely".

It is understood police have been warned not to wear their uniforms in public
when off duty and not to tell strangers their job.

Extremists are keen to carry out an atrocity against officers or members of the
Armed Forces.

The Home Secretary warned it was difficult for the intelligence agencies and
police to stop so-called "lone wolf" attacks and she revealed plans for a major
exercise to "test" attack readiness.

It is estimated that about 40 UK plots have been disrupted in the past 10 years.

Yesterday, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office warned more attacks in Tunisia
are possible but the Government has not altered its travel advice.

A British expert in Islamic terrorism said on his return from Tunisia yesterday
that "the security atmosphere changed" in the hours before the beach bloodbath.

Cal Sarwar, 50, who was researching a book on extremism, said: "Four days before
the attack the whole atmosphere on the streets changed. Instead of taxis taking
you right to your hotel doors they would drop you off at the gates. They were
preparing for something."

LEO MCKINSTRY: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Security - Ch Supt Stuart MacleodBritain faces severe threat, says the
PM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2015 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Gainsborough Standard

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

BOOK OF CONDOLENCE: Leave your tributes to Tunisia terror attack victim Carly
Lovett

LENGTH: 176  words


Tributes are continuing to pour in for a Gainsborough photographer who lost her
life in the Tunisian terror attack.

Carly Lovett, 24, from Gainsborough, was among the first victims to be named
following the hotel bloodbath at the beach resort of El Kantaoui, north of
Sousse.

Since the story broke at the weekend residents have been paying tribute to Carly
on our website and the Standard's Facebook page.

Some knew her well, while other just wanted to let her family know they were in
people's thoughts.

Rachel Mather posted on Facebook: "Rest in peace Carly...I have many memories
from school! I really am thinking of Liam and your family... so shocked &
saddened xx"

And Sharon Hayles wrote: "I was very sad to hear the terrible news about Carly.
My thoughts are with her family xx"

Rebecca Fellows posted: "Such a lovely sensible and thoughtful girl xxx So
horrific."

Linda Plummer posted on Facebook: "So sad. Such a beautiful young life wasted."

If you want to add your tribute, register or sign in below. We hope to use some
of them in this week's Standard.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NGAS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Gainsborough Standard

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Collegues pay tribute to extremely talented' photographer Carly Lovett who was
killed in Tunisia terror attack

LENGTH: 111  words


Colleagues of photographer Carly Lovett, who tragically died in Tunisia after
her hotel lobby was struck by a grenade, described her as extremely talented and
beautiful'.

Carly, 24, was on holiday at the beach resort of El Kantaoui, north of Sousse,
with her fiance, Liam Moore, who survived the attack.

Carly was a photographer for e-commerce website Fizzco, who are based at
Fillingham.

Fizzco have made this statement on the homepage of its website: "It is with the
deepest regret and sadness that Fizzco have lost the extremely talented and
beautiful Carly Lovett in the atrocities in Tunisia."

"We send our condolences to Liam and both families at this awful time."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NGAS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Gainsborough Standard

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Queen Elizabeth's High School remember former student Carly Lovett who was
tragically killed in Tunisia terror attack

LENGTH: 88  words


Queen Elizabeth's High School in Gainsborough has paid tribute to its former
student Carly Lovett after she was tragically killed in the Tunisia terror
attack.

The school have issued the following statement: "The whole of QEHS is devastated
to hear the terrible news about Carly."

"She was a kind and friendly student who achieved highly at the school and had a
real flair for design."

"The staff here remember her fondly and were obviously upset on hearing this
tragic news. Our thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NGAS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Gainsborough Standard

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Family of Tunisia terror attack victim Carly Lovett pay tribute to their
beautiful shining light'

LENGTH: 221  words


The family of Gainsborough terror attack victim Carly Lovett have this evening
paid tribute to their beautiful shining light'.

Carly, 24, was among the first victims to be named following the hotel bloodbath
at the beach resort of El Kantaoui, north of Sousse.

The statement says: "Carly's parents, Joanne and Kev, fiancé Liam, sister
Jordan, brother Daniel, stepfather John, stepmother Tracey, and step brothers
Simon and Max, would like to thank everyone for their kind words of support at
this very difficult time.

"Carly was and always will be our beautiful shining light; she was funny,
clever, artistic and radiated love and happiness around her.

"Carly recently got engaged to Liam, her childhood sweetheart of 10 years.  Both
were excited and looking forward to a bright future together filled with love
and happiness.  This has now been cruelly taken away.

"To move forward through this we will try to do what we believe Carly would want
and that is to love, cherish and support each other.

"The support received from family, friends and people we don't know has been
overwhelming and has been a great comfort to us all.

"Carly, may you soar with the angels and we pray with all our hearts that this
evil, and such disregard for human life, will end so no other family will feel
the pain that we do today and always will."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NGAS


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               gazettelive.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:19 PM GMT

Stockton-born ex-footballer and his wife feared dead following Tunisia terror
attack;
Denis and Elaine Thwaites were on holiday in Tunisia but are feared to be the
latest victims in the atrocity in Tunisia

BYLINE: By Sarah Dale

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 308 words


A Stockton-born former footballer and his wife are feared to be the latest
victims in the terrorist attack in Tunisia.

The family of Denis Thwaites, 70, and his wife Elaine, 69, have not heard from
them since the massacre on the beach in Sousse.

The couple texted home to say they had arrived safely on Wednesday and were
staying at the Imperial Marhaba Hotel.

But they have not been in contact with their family since Kalashnikov-wielding
student Seifeddine Rezgui, 23, targeted Western tourists in the attack.

Mr and Mrs Thwaites were reported on Saturday to be recovering in hospital after
the atrocity.

But those hopes were tragically ill-founded as the family had been misinformed.

Son-in-law Daniel Clifford, of Blackpool, told our sister paper, the Birmingham
Mail: "We were told by a Thomson rep through a friend that they were injured in
hospital but this turned out not to be true.

"It is just horrendous. We haven't had any advice from the Foreign Office.

"My whole thing is my wife - it's her mother and father.

"They only arrived on Wednesday and texted us on Thursday to say they were all
fine and starting to enjoy their holiday."

Mr Thwaites first appeared in Birmingham City's first team as a 16-year-old in
1961, and turned professional the following year.

The winger went on to play several games in the First Division at the start of
the 1962-63 season.

His last appearance for the first team came in the 1971-72 season, and he
retired from professional football in 1972 aged 27.

Described as incredibly gifted, Dennis suffered from severe attacks of nerves
but he still played 87 times for Blues, scoring 18 goals.

His team-mates included Bobby Thomson, now 78, who said: "I remember Denis was a
lovely bloke, a cracking player."

The chairman of the Birmingham City Football Club's Former Players Association,
Tom Ross, said: "I'm devastated."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEGM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               gazettelive.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:53 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: 'It was the scariest couple of days in my life - we
couldn't wait to get home';
Stockton mum Sharon Howden was on holiday in Sousse with her 12-year-old son
just five minutes from where the massacre took place

BYLINE: By James Cain

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 326 words


Another Teessider has told of the panic that spread through holidaymakers after
Friday's terrorist attack in Tunisia.

Sharon Howden, 45, was on holiday in the resort of Sousse in Tunisia with her
12-year-old son Jay Howden just five minutes from where the massacre took place.

The window factory worker from Hardwick, Stockton, said: "Our hotel was only
five minutes away from where it happened.

"We were just around the pool and there was music blaring out so we didn't hear
anything until we heard the ambulances and police going past the hotel.

"About 10 minutes after, we were all round the pool and people started
panicking.

"Then the phone calls started coming in from families trying to get in touch.

"It took ours an hour and a half to get in touch with us."

Pictures: Beach at the Imperial Marhaba hotel in Souss

As the full details of the horror of the attacks emerged, Sharon said that many
people just wanted to go home.

"We heard lots of stories from different people. It was the scariest couple of
days in my life - we couldn't wait to get home," she said.

"There was no conference or anything, everybody was just on edge and really past
themselves.

"Everything seemed disorganised - people were panicking, saying there would be
another attack. I started to become paranoid, I would see someone I didn't know
and start thinking 'who's that?'

"But Jay suffers from ADHD and autism so I was trying my hardest to stay calm
for him.

"The staff in our hotel were telling us not to panic but we didn't feel safe.
They kept calling it an incident, I thought it wasn't an incident - it was a
massacre."

Sharon and Jay returned home yesterday having cut their holiday short.

"Everybody was leaving. The hotel's completely desolate - there's hardly anybody
left.

"We flew out at 10.30am and landed in Newcastle at 2pm.

"We were meant to be out there until Wednesday but there was no way we were
staying.

"It's really scared me. The way I feel now I won't ever travel again."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBEGM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 3:36 PM GMT

Police seize Wimbledon drone as security tightens after terror attacks;
Officers investigate flight over tournament site as Scotland Yard announces
deployment of officers to Tunisia and greater security across UK

BYLINE: Mark Townsend

SECTION: UK NEWS

LENGTH: 800 words


Police have seized a drone hovering over Wimbledon's famous tennis courts as
security measures at high-profile tourist attractions throughout the UK are
tightened after the attacks in Tunisia, France and Kuwait.

As Scotland Yard's most senior counter-terrorism official announced police were
looking to increase the security of key sites, businesses and public places
across the UK, officers were investigating why the drone, operated by a man from
a nearby golf course, was directed above the site of the country's showcase
tennis tournament, which starts on Monday.

Related: Tunisia attack: Cameron says UK must prepare for high death toll

Assistant commissioner Mark Rowley, the national policing lead for
counter-terrorism, also revealed that a significant number of officers had flown
to Tunisia to help collate evidence from the scene of the attack in the beach
resort of Sousse.

"We've deployed a large number of officers out to Tunisia, both in terms of our
own evidence gathering - forensic experts, helping the Tunisia authorities - and
also we've got experts in family liaison assisting," he said.

Rowley, who recently said there were 35% more arrests linked to
counter-terrorism than ever before, added it was "fairly clear" the location of
the Tunisian attack was chosen because of the number of western tourists in the
area.

Earlier, Scotland Yard had unveiled details of how it planned to tighten
security at Wimbledon, with measures including the deployment of extra officers,
increased road closures in south-west London and a "highly mobile reserve" team
to respond to intelligence.

Senior officers confirmed the force was working with the All England Lawn Tennis
Club, which organises the tournament.

Ch Supt Stuart Macleod, the local borough commander, said: "We have reflected on
previous operational plans and amended these where necessary to ensure we
deliver a safe and secure championships for 2015. This year's event will be
policed to a level proportionate with the current threat level."

Earlier, David Cameron, speaking immediately after hosting a Cobra emergency
committee on Saturday, repeated warnings that Britain was facing a long-term
threat.

"There's no doubt we face a very severe threat in our country and we have done
for many months and many years," the prime minister said.

The UK's threat level for international terrorism is currently assessed as
severe, meaning an attack is "highly likely". It was raised to this level last
August in response to conflicts in Iraq and Syria, and is one level below
"critical", when an attack is believed to be "imminent".

Soon after Cameron's comments, and as crowds began to build in central London,
police encouraged the public to attend high-profile events, such as the
capital's Pride march and Armed Forces Day events, despite reports that the
latter had been targeted by Islamic State terrorists.

The Metropolitan police confirmed that a Birmingham-based Isis convert had
intended to target a south London parade made up of soldiers from the same unit
as the murdered soldier Lee Rigby. The Sun reported that the plot to explode a
pressure-cooker bomb was revealed after an undercover investigator from the
newspaper was recruited to carry it out.

Elsewhere, the College of Policing revealed it had upgraded efforts to protect
officers, saying it was disseminating toolkits to increase understanding among
police forces of what suspicious activity looks like and how to be vigilant
against it.

Related: Public urged to attend Armed Forces Day events after 'Isis plot foiled'

It is understood police have been warned not to wear their uniforms in public
when off duty and to not tell strangers their vocation. Guidance has been issued
to officers that Islamist extremists are keen to carry out an atrocity against
either on-duty officers or members of the armed forces.

Security arrangements throughout the UK are believed to have been tightened
until the end of Ramadan on 18 July after the spokesman for Isis told followers
earlier this week that creating "disasters for the infidels" during the Muslim
holy month earned greater rewards in heaven.

The proliferating threat from Isis has intensified pressure on the inteligence
services, with the senior national co-ordinator of counter-terrorism
investigations, assistant commissioner Helen Ball, stating on Friday that "we
have seen a large increase in the level of counter-terrorist policing activity
in the UK. This includes arresting suspects and disrupting their activities, as
well as working with communities to prevent people from being drawn into violent
extremism."

Cameron said that if the public were vigilant and supported the police the UK
could "combat this poisonous narrative of Islamist extremism that is
radicalising too many young minds in our country".

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2015 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Hull Daily Mail

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Foreign Office says further terrorist attacks possible in travel warnings

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 279  words


Tunisia

The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) says further terrorist attacks in
Tunisia are possible.

The FCO has advised against all travel to:

The Chaambi Mountain National Park area.

The Tunisia-Algeria border crossing points at Ghardimaou, Hazoua and Sakiet Sidi
Youssef.

The militarized zone south of, not including, the towns of El Borma and Dhehiba.

Within 5km of the Libya border area from north of Dhehiba up to, but not
including, the Ras Ajdir border crossing.

The FCO advise against all but essential travel to:

Areas south of, and including, Nefta, Douz, MÃ©denine, Zarzis.

Within 30km of the Algerian border, south of, and including, Jendouba.

The governorate of Kasserine, including the town of Sbeitla.

Egypt

The FCO says there is a high risk of terrorism and advise against all travel to:

The Governorate of North Sinai due to "significant increase" in criminal
activity and terrorist attacks on police.

People are advised against all but essential travel to:

The Governorate of South Sinai, apart from Sharm el Sheikh, Sharm el Maya,
Hadaba, Naama Bay, Sharks Bay and Nabq.

Within 50km of the border with Libya

Areas west of the Nile Valley and Delta Regions, excluding Siwa, Fayoum.

The threat does not include the tourist areas along the Nile river, such as
Luxor, Qina, Aswan, Abu Simbel and the Valley of the Kings or the Red Sea
Resorts of Sharm El Sheikh and Hurghada.

Turkey

Travellers should not go within 10km of the border with Syria.

It advises against all but essential travel to:

Sirnak, Mardin, Sanliurfa, Gaziantep, Kilis and Hatay provinces.

Siirt, Tunceli and Hakkari provinces.

Morocco

There is a "general threat" of terrorism, but overall it is trouble-free.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RISKS: Travel advice issued by the Foreign Office.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 29, 2015 Monday
                                 First Edition

Tributes paid to British victims as hunt for the missing goes on;
Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: IAN JOHNSTON AND SIMON CALDER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 343 words


Relatives and friends of the victims of the beach resort massacre in Tunisia
were yesterday struggling to come to terms with the loss of their loved ones as
others desperately searched for news of the missing.

A number of bodies had still not been identified, although British officials
said they expected to make progress on this overnight and today.

One victim, Lisa Burbidge, a grandmother in her 60s from Whickham, Gateshead,
was described by her granddaughter, Chloe Thompson, as "my angel, my best
friend". "Love you always grandma, rest in peace," she added.

Conor Fulford, whose mother Sue Davey, of Tamworth, Staffordshire, was killed,
tweeted: "My mom was a strong woman who didn't take no crap from nobody, so when
you lie down tonight wish my mom goodnight as I know I sure will xxxxx."

Her partner Scott Chalkley, 42, of Derby, who worked with her at Severn Trent
Water, was also killed. Tracy Parker, an ex-colleague, tweeted that he was a
"totally top guy".

The wife of Stephen Mellor, 69, of Bodmin, Cornwall, told the Daily Mirror she
believed he died trying to shield her from the bullets, although his death was
unconfirmed. "He died on the beach. I'm heartbroken," Cheryl Mellor said from
her hospital bed. The 55-year-old former psychiatric nurse was shot in one leg
and an arm.

Mark Stocker's father and stepmother, John and Janet Stocker, from Crawley, have
not been heard from since the shooting on Friday. He told Sky News: "We've
spoken to every hospital in Sousse and surrounding areas."

Meanwhile, people with trips to Tunisia booked for the school summer break are
being told they have no right to cancel, switch or postpone their holidays
without losing most of their money.

The UK's biggest tour operator, Tui, which owns Thomson and First Choice, is
imposing normal cancellation conditions for trips from August onwards. But
German tourists with the same company are being offered full refunds for
bookings up to 15 September.

Between 80,000 and 100,000 British holidaymakers are believed to have holidays
booked in Tunisia in August alone.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 29, 2015 Monday
                                 First Edition

Tunisians 'shielded tourists from attack';
Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: IAN JOHNSTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 158 words


At least 12 Tunisians appear to have formed a human shield to protect Western
tourists from the Islamist gunman who massacred 38 people at a beach resort, The
Independent has learnt.

A photograph that emerged over the weekend showed the killer walking up the
beach carrying an AK47 assault rifle, followed by a line of people a short
distance behind.

A Northamptonshire woman, who was in Sousse when the shooting broke out, said
she met a holidaymaker at Manchester Airport who had been on the beach during
the shootings.

He said a hotel chef came running towards them, telling them to run for their
lives. The chef explained that the hotel staff in the line had told the gunman
that if he wanted to shoot more tourists, he would have to kill them first.

It has been reported that the man, Seifeddine Rezgui, was targeting Westerners
and spared Tunisians. However, if the account is correct, the staff displayed
far greater bravery than previously realised.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 29, 2015 Monday
                                 First Edition

Backdrop to this attack is a history of violence against Muslims;
Tunisia terror attack Comment

BYLINE: ROBERT FISK MIDDLE EAST CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 632 words


It's "us" and "them" again. It started just after news of the three Islamist
attacks broke. David Cameron initially talked about the French and Tunisian
killings. He left out the Kuwait mosque massacre - only picking up on it later.

Odd, that. Weren't those Kuwaitis - of Shia Muslim faith, to be true, all 27 of
them - victims of the same Islamist cult that is murdering our folk? And then
there are the Sunni Saudis whose Salafist-Wahhabi credo energises the murderers,
but whom we - and Mr Cameron - mysteriously forgot to mention?

Wasn't Saudi Arabia the place where they chopped off the head of a screaming
lady in the middle of a street the other day - legally, because she'd been
condemned by one of the kingdom's grotesque courts? And didn't Mr Cameron order
our national flag to be flown at half mast in honour of the wretched old king of
the Wahhabi nation which has given us most of the 9/11 killers and helped to
prop up the Taliban - and some of whose citizens support the Islamic "caliphate"
which now kills our citizens?

One slaughter doesn't justify another. The bloodbath in Gaza last year was not
responsible for slaughter on the beaches of Tunisia - although Mr Cameron did
support Israel's "right to have defended itself" against the "indiscriminate"
attacks of Hamas when he was seeking British-Jewish votes in April. Again, no
justification for the Sousse killer. Besides, what kind of Islamist "warrior"
can claim to be "fighting" such enemies: tourists on a Tunisian beach, a French
employer and Kuwaiti worshippers who can't shoot back?

But before we beat the drum, who this weekend remembered the "terrorist"
slaughter of 8,000 innocent men and boys almost exactly 20 years ago? Yes, it
happened in Europe. A place called Srebrenica. But they were Muslims. And no one
blamed the Orthodox church to which the murderers belonged - any more than we
blamed Catholics for the mass killing by Christian Catholic militiamen (allies
of Israel) of 1,700 Palestinian civilians in Beirut in 1982. Yet those killers
had pictures of the Virgin Mary on their rifle butts as surely as the killer of
Sousse was acknowledged by Islamists whose slogan is Koranic.

I'm as guilty as anyone in making these vile distinctions between "us" and
"them". For years, I could only remember Srebrenica because most of the killings
happened on my birthday. Sabra and Shatila I recall because I was there and saw
the corpses. But often, covering the Balkan wars and the "ethnic cleansing" of
the Muslims and the mass rape of Bosnian Muslim women I ignored the effect this
would have in the Muslim world. I'd get back to Beirut from Sarajevo, sit by the
beach, glance at the incendiary headlines in the Arab press. Been there.
Reported that.

Because I'm writing a study of torture and massacre in the Middle East over the
past few years, I have become acutely conscious of the fury which anti-Muslim
violence has created. Researching through newspapers and speeches from the 1980s
and 1990s in the Arab region, I've uncovered a world of almost inexpressible
anger - yes, and talk of revenge - despite the Arab dictators who worked for us
at the time and tried to smother this frustration, even when Iraqis were dying
by the thousandfold.

No, it didn't create the Islamists who kill us today. But it helped lay the
foundation for their cults of death - and for the world they grew up in. We had
a hand in that. Cliché, of course. But it all goes back to justice. If we were
as keen to bring justice to this crushed and humiliated people as we are to
discuss so patronisingly their "radicalisation" we might stop the killers wading
ashore on tourist beaches or wandering into mosques or murdering the innocent in
France. No hope, of course. More security. More phone-taps. More armed cops.
That's what we need.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 29, 2015 Monday
                                 First Edition

Number of Britons killed feared to be at least 30;
Tunisia terror attack Home Secretary says authorities do not believe gunman
singled out UK tourists

BYLINE: ANDY McSMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 558 words


As many as 30 Britons are now feared to be among the dead from the slaughter at
a Tunisian holiday resort. Though the figure of confirmed dead was still at 15
last night, unofficial reports warned the eventual total is likely to double
once all the bodies lying in morgues in Sousse are properly identified.

Officials have had a nightmarish time trying to make identifications of people
mown down while they were sunbathing in their swimming costumes, without
anything on them to say who they were. But the hotel closest to where the
attacks took place was used principally by British holiday makers. The numbers
of Irish, German, Belgian and Ukrainians caught up in the slaughter is thought
to be small. Two of those alive but critically injured, in the worst terrorist
attack against British citizens since the London bombings in July 2005, are in a
coma.

Theresa May, the Home Secretary, defended the delay in identifying the dead and
answering frantic enquiries from the public about friends and relatives.

She said officials were working "around the clock" to help victims' families,
but pointed out that because the killings were on a tourist beach, most of the
victims were in swimwear and were not carrying mobile phones or other means of
identification.

The Queen and Prince Philip issued a statement yesterday offering their
"sincerest condolences" to the families affected.

About 50 specialists from the Foreign Office and other departments, including
military medical liaison personnel, have gone out to Tunisia to assist the
injured and those thousands of Britons still in Tunisia who want to leave. Mark
Rowley, the Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police responsible for
counter-terrorism, predicted that the police response to the attack would be the
biggest counter-terrorism operation since the 7/7 bombings.

More than 600 officers from Scotland Yard's National Counter Terrorism Policing
HQ are involved, including more than 380 who have been stationed at airports to
meet tourists as they return from Tunisia and identify potential witnesses. On
Saturday, they met 27 flights, and it was expected they would meet a similar
number yesterday. A team of 18 officers has been flown out to Tunisia. In the
UK, 60 family liaison officers are with the families of those killed or injured.

Ms May, who presided yesterday morning over another meeting of the Cabinet
emergency committee, Cobra, said the authorities did not believe the gunman,
Seifeddine Rezgui, was deliberately singling out British tourists, but was
randomly killing anyone who looked European. The Foreign Office consequently has
not advised all British citizens to leave the country. Their advice to anyone
there is to be vigilant and to avoid certain dangerous parts of the country on
the Libyan or Algerian borders - but not Sousse. Asked about the delay in
identifying victims, she told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show: "What's important is
that the information is absolutely 100 per cent correct when it is given to a
family. If you can imagine, these are circumstances, because of the
circumstances of the attack, people won't have had documents with them, they
won't necessarily have had mobile phones with them.

"Some people are being moved between different hospitals, so the team on the
ground are making every effort to ensure that they get accurate information."

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 29, 2015 Monday
                                 First Edition

Tunisian killer may not have acted alone;
Tunisia terror attack * His housemates are still at large and police are hunting
them * At least 30 Britons are now feared dead in Friday's beach attack
EXCLUSIVE Attacker did not act alone, authorities say, as suspected accomplices
sought

BYLINE: KIM SENGUPTA IN KAIROUAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1062 words


Seifeddine Rezgui - the student who carried out the murderous attack in the
Tunisian resort of Sousse which left at least 30 Britons feared dead -
disappeared along with six other young men he shared a house with a month before
the slaughter on the beach, The Independent understands.

Last night, a number of the men, who had rented the property next to the Mosque
of the Seven Virgins in the Islamic holy city of Kairouan, remained at large.

The group led secretive lives, deliberately avoiding contact with local people,
according to neighbours, who also claimed that there were visits by a group of
Salafists before the building was suddenly left empty. Authorities in Tunisia
are "sure" Rezgui had help in Friday's murderous rampage - though not direct -
and are searching for his accomplices.

There were reports that the 23-year-old Rezgui had recently visited his home
town of Gaafour, 50 miles south-west of Tunis. The identities and whereabouts of
his housemates remain unknown. A Tunisian official involved in the inquiry said
the authorities were trying to trace the men because they may have vital
information about their dead housemate.

Isis, which had given Rezgui the name of "Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani" [from
Kairouan], has claimed responsibility for the shooting of the 39 tourists in
Sousse, along with the bombing of a mosque in Kuwait and a decapitation in
France on the same day.

Rezgui, however, was not on any security watchlist in Tunisia. In London, the
Home Secretary, Theresa May, presided yesterday morning over a meeting of the
emergency committee Cobra, saying that authorities did not believe Rezgui was
singling out British tourists, but was randomly killing anyone who looked
European.

The killer's father, who was detained by Tunisian police, spoke to reporters
yesterday shortly after being released. Hakim Rezgui said that when he heard the
news of what his son had done, he "could not comprehend it". He added: "I am so
shocked. I have no idea who influenced him, or who put these ideas in his head."

Meanwhile, the government in Tunis announced that it would put in an extra 1,000
armed police to protect tourist facilities and hotels after hundreds more were
deployed at beach resorts in the aftermath of the massacre. The state news
agency, TAP, reported that gunmen had raided homes for food in el Kef, about a
100 miles from the coast, before heading into hills bordering Algeria. It was
unclear whether there was any connection between this and the Sousse killings.

The Foreign Office in London stated that further attacks in Tunisia might
follow. The warning was echoed by the imam of the Great Mosque of Sidi-Uqba in
Kairouan, who maintained that it was "inconceivable" that Rezgui was not
prepared for the murders by others. He added that the jihadist group Ansar
al-Sharia, an al-Qaeda affiliate banned in Tunisia, was among the chief
suspects, although, he said, there may also be an Isis connection.

Imam Taib al-Gazi told The Independent that "damaging actions by weak
governments" which followed the overthrow of the dictator Zine el Abidine Ben
Ali four years ago had contributed to Kairouan being infected by extremism.

"From 2011 to last year, we had all kinds of imams coming here, from Tunisia and
abroad, from Saudi Arabia and Gulf states and other places to spread this kind
of thought. This has now been stopped by the new government, but there were
plenty of opportunities for this man Rezgui to be indoctrinated," said the
cleric.

However, Imam Taib said he was against an emergency measure announced by the
Prime Minister, Habib Essid, to shut down 80 mosques accused of espousing
violence. "It would be better to change the imams there. None of these mosques
is in Kairouan. We had trouble like that in two mosques last year and we changed
the imams."

The imam said he acknowledged that extremists wanted to use houses of worship to
spread their "bad message". Ansar al-Sharia was allowed by the government of the
time to hold a meeting at the Great Mosque two years ago. "It was a big
mistake... we did not give our permission," he stressed.

"Also, the people of Kairouan were against it. They had to put the police in
front of the mosque to protect Ansar from the angry people of this city. The
following year Ansar tried to use the mosque again, this time they were stopped
from even entering Kairouan.

"What happened shows that Kairouan is not place for terrorists. Because this
killer lived here for a while, this city is now getting a bad name. But he
wasn't even born here."

Many others in Kairouan, 60 miles from Sousse, also felt that the presence of
Rezgui had unfairly tarnished the image of the city. The residents of the Sidi
Belkacem district complained that they faced being traduced because the murderer
had lived among them. "But it was only for about eight months and we hardly ever
saw them," said Imene Mohammed, 22. "Whenever they were going to and from the
house they would just look at the ground."

His friend, Youssef Echarfi, agreed: "They would do anything not to talk to you;
they would not even talk to you at the mosque. They would pretend to be on the
phone so as not to have a conversation.

"Towards the end, they just kept themselves shut up in the house. Now I wonder
what was going on in there. Then they had visitors, men with big beards, and
again I wonder what was going on."

It is not, of course, known whether Rezgui's journey to becoming a killer began
at his birthplace. His Facebook postings had begun to change from expressing his
fondness of techno music and breakdancing to jihad and death. His last entry on
1 January, when he was living in the Belkacem district, read: "May God take me
out of this unjust world and perish its people and make them suffer. They just
remember you when you die."

Rezgui's murderous rampage has had a profound impact on Tunisia's main source of
income and employment, tourism. Three thousand foreign visitors left in the 24
hours after the killings.

Last night, Tunisians took to the beach at Sousse in a show of defiance against
terrorism. Gathering at the spot where flowers were laid in tribute to victims,
they sang songs and chanted in favour of democracy. Jet-ski drivers waving
Tunisian flags circled offshore, while a convoy of quad bikes sounded their
horns from the beach. One protester told Sky New it was "Tunisian resistance
against terrorism".

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2015 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Kidderminster Shuttle

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

News round-up: Kidderminster couple flee Tunisia terror attack, Cradley Heathens
want new speedway home in Halesowen, woman's apology over wrong Dudley abduction
accusation and Bromsgrove beer festival runs out of beer.

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 249 words


Here are a few stories from today that have featured on some of our websites.

A TERRIFIED young Kidderminster couple have revealed how they ran for their
lives in the Tunisia terror attack last week.

Matthew Preece and fiancé Daisy Earl, both 23, fled from a Tunisian beach in a
tuk-tuk as a gunman killed tourists on a neighbouring beach.

For the full story, click here.

SPEEDWAY giants Cradley Heathens want to build a new home in Dudley Council's
proposed business park in Halesowen.

Dudley Council's cabinet agreed last week to look further into the development
of a new business park on green belt land near Junction 3 of the M5 and the
Heathens want to be part of it.

For more on this story, please visit here.

A WOMAN has apologised for posting photographs online of a man she wrongly
accused of attempting to abduct children in Dudley.

Police have received numerous reports of attempted child abductions and
suspicious incidents where children were approached by a dark blue or black BMW
in and around the town over the last few weeks.

You can read the full story here.

FRUSTRATION frothed over as hundreds of thirsty revellers were turned away from
a record-breaking Bromsgrove real ale and cider festival tent - when it ran out
of beer.

Drinkers vented their anger on social networking sites after apologetic
organisers closed the tent to newcomers on the second public day of the festival
when the 9,000 pints of beer and 350 gallons of cider on offer ran dry.

You can read more on this story here.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Kidderminster Shuttle

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Kidderminster couple ran for their lives in Tunisia terror attack

BYLINE: Dayna Farrington

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 497 words


A TERRIFIED young Kidderminster couple have revealed how they ran for their
lives in the Tunisia terror attack last week.

Matthew Preece and fiancé Daisy Earl, both 23, fled from a Tunisian beach in a
tuk-tuk as a gunman killed tourists on a neighbouring beach.

The couple, who had only arrived at the popular holiday destination the day
before for a week-long holiday, heard explosions and bangs as the shootings
began at around midday on Friday (June 26).

They had hired sunbeds on the front of the beach and believe the gunman had
walked past them earlier, before opening fire on a busier stretch of the beach
only 200 yards away.

They ran for their lives, before escaping in a tuk-tuk to their nearby hotel,
Kanta Resort.

Mr Preece, a painter and decorator, said: "We were on a neighbouring stretch of
beach about 200 yards away from where the shooting happened.

"We were sunbathing on the beach, which was around a five minute walk away from
where everything happened. We believe he may have walked across the part of the
beach where we were, but it was quiet at the time, as most people were at a
snack bar, so he moved on.

"It was absolutely terrifying.

"We heard lots of bangs and explosions, but we didn't know what was going on.
There were so many people rushing about.

"We just ran for our lives and got into a tuk-tuk and went straight into our
hotel.

"We were so scared, we were absolutely terrified. We just kept thinking it could
have been us at any moment.

"When we got to our hotel people were everywhere. People were crying and really
sad, and they just wanted to go home. Everyone just wanted to get out of the
country.

"Everyone was panicking. No one knew where to go."

The couple stayed in the hotel with little news until 7pm that evening when a
Thomas Cook rep arrived and said he would keep them posted about a flight home.

"The only news we had was what was being reported on the television," he added.

"I managed to ring my dad back home, and I asked him if it was true that there
had been shootings, and he told me that it was.

"A Thomas Cook rep arrived at our hotel at around 7pm that evening and told us
that everything was fine and to stay in the hotel and that he would let us know
about flights home.

"I asked them to keep me updated and at around half two in the morning we were
told we had a flight home.

"The emergency flight back to Manchester was set up by Thomas Cook and it was
full to capacity.

"We had only arrived in the country in the early hours of Thursday morning and
we were meant to be there for a week."

They landed back in the UK on Saturday night and said they were glad to be home,
but their thoughts were with those who had not been so lucky and their loved
ones.

Mr Preece said: "We are both just so relieved to be back home and feeling safe.

"It was just so great to see our families; to be back with them is such a
relief.

"But of course we feel for those who did not get the chance to come home to
their families.

"It's terrible, I can't imagine it."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

East Lancs mum and daughter wounded in Tunisian terror attack

BYLINE: Michael Morrison

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 782 words


A DARWEN teenager and her mum were amongst those wounded by an Islamic State
gunman in the Tunisian massacre.

Naomi Wearing, 18, was peppered with shrapnel in her back and legs after being
blasted by a grenade, while her mum Carol was hit with what medics think was
either bullets or chunks of metal.

The pair, had been walking to have lunch in the beach resort of Sousse when they
were caught up the deadly terror attack.

Last night the foreign office confirmed 15 British people were amongst the 39
killed.

Carol and Naomi were treated by medics before arriving home at Manchester
Airport on Saturday afternoon on a specially chartered flight.

Speaking from Royal Blackburn Hospital, where she was yesterday facing an
operation to remove the shrapnel, Carol described the moment the idyllic resort
turned into a living nightmare.

The 46-year-old Crown Paints worker said: "Me and Naomi had gone away, just us
two. It was a treat before she goes to university.

"We were walking down to the beach because the restaurant used for lunch is on
the beach. We heard a gunshot, took a few more steps, and then heard a series of
gunshots."

Carol and Naomi, of Astley Heights, Darwen, ran back into the Hotel Riu Imperial
Marhaba, where they were locked in a room by staff.

Minutes later, they were let out again and told to run as ISIS shooter
Seifeddine Rezgui stormed the hotel carrying explosives and a Kalashnikov rifle.

Carol said: "We ran out the front and just before we got to the front gates, I
felt something shooting through my leg. There was no pain, it was just like
somebody threw something at my leg. It gave way.

"There was a gaping hole in my leg and foot."

A local man, believed to be a taxi driver, took off his shirt and wrapped it
around Carol's bloodied limb before carrying her to a nearby disco.

A passing ambulance then took Carol to a nearby hospital while Naomi, who had
become separated, went to a nearby clinic with two other girls.

Carol said: "Her phone was smashed but she managed to call her dad, who asked
her if she had been shot. She said she didn't know but she was covered in
blood."

The pair were later reunited on the plane, and are now recovering from their
ordeal.

They recognised some of the victims, whose pictures have been published by the
national press, from breakfast, or from relaxing by the sea, Carol said.

"We feel lucky to be alive but we can't believe it. Everybody was screaming, 'we
are going to die'," she said.

"You just can't believe it can happen to you. Everybody got up on Friday morning
and had breakfast and sat on the sunbeds, and a couple of hours later, their
lives were turned upside down."

Carol said she hoped to one day thank the man who carried her to safety, as well
as the manager at the disco, who initially offered to drive her to hospital
himself.

She said: "The Tunisians did everything they could. They were brilliant."

It emerged after the attack that Rezgui, a 23-year-old Tunisian aviation
student, had disguised himself as a tourist, carrying his gun onto the beach in
a closed parasol.

He was said to have laughed and joked as he targeted tourists, spraying them
with gunfire and throwing explosives at them.

He was shot dead by police after heading from the beach to the hotel where Naomi
and Carol were staying, and continuing his deadly attack.

Naomi's brother Stephen, who works at Sainsbury's in Darwen and who had himself
stayed at the hotel with his girlfriend last month, posted updates on Facebook
in the aftermath.

He wrote: "Just to keep everyone informed, my sister has shrapnel wounds to her
back and legs from a grenade, and my mum's been shot in the leg and foot."

Former St Wilfrid's Academy student Naomi, who is due to start at the University
of Central Lancashire to study to become a social worker in September, was among
12 Brits treated at The Clinic Les Oliviers.

Another was 16-year-old Owen Richards, who lost three family members.

As the hours following the attack stretched into days, the death toll continued
to rise, with Prime Minister David Cameron warning that the public should 'be
prepared for the fact that many of those killed were British'.

ISIS has since claimed it is behind the attack, prompting Darwen MP Jake Berry
to call for more to done to tackle the 'global threat'.

He said: "This shocking report brings these acts of terrorism very close to
home, and everyone in Darwen is thankful that, despite being injured, this local
mum and daughter have survived an horrendous attack.

"The government must continue to work to tackle the threat of ISIS across the
world. It's a global terrorist organisation and there is no one solution to this
increased threat, which has affected families in East Lancashire."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Lancashire Evening Post

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Minute's silence for Tunisia terror attack victims

LENGTH: 187  words


A NATIONWIDE minute's silence will be held at noon on Friday following the
terrorist attack in Tunisia last week.

The Prime Minister David Cameron told the House of Commons today (June 29) an
act of remembrance will take place one week on from the beach massacre that
killed dozens of Britons.

This comes as suspected associates of the gunman have been arrested. Tunisia's
interior minister Najem Gharsalli said a "significant number" of individuals
were detained.

Mr Cameron, who chaired a meeting of the Government's Cobra emergencies
committee at 10 Downing Street earlier, promised a "full spectrum response" to
extremist terror.

Mr Cameron said the holidaymakers "suddenly became the victims of the most
brutal terrorist attack against the British people for many years".

It was announced that within the next few days there will be a major
counter-terrorism training exercise in London.

He added that new rules will come into force this week giving public bodies a
statutory duty to counter extremism.

The Foreign Office has updated its travel advice, but it is not advising against
travel to holiday resorts like Sousse.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WLEP


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 11:15 PM GMT

Skelmersdale United manager Tommy Lawson arrives back in UK after Tunisia
terrorist attack;
Mr Lawson joined thousands of Brits fleeing Tunisa after beach massacre

BYLINE: By Helen Davies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 324 words


Skelmersdale United manager Tommy Lawson was among hundreds of terrified
holidaymakers caught up in the Tunisian terrorist attack.

The football boss returned home early from his holiday and told the ECHO of his
experience following Friday's beach massacre.

Mr Lawson said: "It was one of those situations where we had no control over it.
We were asked not to go out of our complex because it was unsafe.

"It was a very sombre atmosphere.

"First and foremost I feel for the people who lost their lives. Then I feel for
the staff there, they were in tears."

The Skelmersdale manager was staying a short distance from the attack with his
wife and had previously walked down the beach where it happened.

The couple found out through word of mouth at their hotel that a gunman
disguised as a tourist had opened fire on holidaymakers sunbathing on a beach.

Tunisian beach attack death toll to double to 30 British victims

Mr Lawson said: "There was no information coming to us. There were no English
papers out there and we found the BBC news channel wasn't giving any signal so
we were getting everything second hand and later found out some of the
information wasn't right.

"It was just by word of mouth we found out what happened. We were asked to go to
a meeting by the rep. He took our phone numbers and said they'd get back to us
ASAP with an itinerary."

The couple then joined the thousands of other British holidaymakers wanting to
flee Tunisia in the wake of the attack.

Mr Lawson said: "We had another three days still to go but we came back early.

"We had a flight at 9.30 and then were delayed by hour before we got on the
plane and then delayed again because they were waiting for a family of nine who
were desperate to get back to the UK

"If you're in an area like that the thing it to get away from it.

"Everyone knew about March and I thought it would in a way be safer there
because of it. For it to happen again so soon is not what you'd expect."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              liverpoolecho.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 5:53 PM GMT

Listen: Walton mum tells of family's narrow escape from Tunisia terrorist attack
;
Nicola Alty planned to go to the beach minutes after the gunman struck - but
went back to her room for suncream

BYLINE: By Helen Davies

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 407 words


Liverpool mum reveals terror on Tunisia beach

A Liverpool family narrowly escaped the Tunisian terrorist attack because they
went to get more suncream.

Mum Nicola Alty today spoke of her belief that if she and her three children had
gone straight to the beach after lunch last Friday instead of returning to their
room for the sun lotion they could have been among the gunman's victims.

The 33-year-old, from Walton, was staying with her boyfriend, mum and children
in the hotel next to where the massacre happened in Sousse.

Nicola said: "We were going to go on the pedalos but decided to go back to get
some more suncream. We could so easily have been caught up in it."

The family were on the way back to the beach when a fellow holidaymaker told
them not to continue because there had been a terrorist attack.

Nicola said: "I just grabbed the kids and ran up to the room and then we heard
the sirens.

"I could see the sea from our window, the coastguard was going up and down and
the beach got evacuated.

"I was sobbing in the room. When the children knew there was a gunman out there
they were really upset. The eldest couldn't sleep and was asking loads of
questions.

"I feel we had a really lucky escape, I feel devastated for the people killed
and how easily it could have been us. I still keep crying."

The family were on the last day of a two week holiday when the terrorist attack
happened and they spent that afternoon and evening in their room, apart from
venturing down for dinner.

Nicola said: "I was terrified getting out of the hotel and back to the airport.
I was thinking our coach was going to get ambushed on the way back.

"I wasn't happy until I was back in the UK."

On their return to Manchester Airport the family were interviewed by counter
terrorism police along with other holidaymakers from the resort.

Nicola said she had wanted to cancel the trip back in March after the terrorist
attack in Tunisa then.

But, the mum-of-three was told it would cost her £2,000 to change location which
she couldn't afford.

She said she spent her whole holiday worrying a terrorist attack would happen.

Nicola said: "I was anxious but I just tried to be normal for the kids.

"I'd tried to cancel loads of times with what had happened in March. We were
told it could happen to anywhere.

She added: "I think it'd down to the government and tour operators. I think they
should have stopped all travel there. The threat was there in March, that's how
I feel."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBLIV


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 10:33 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Manchester-born man who was on holiday to celebrate his
wedding anniversary was killed;
His wife is also today fighting for her life

BYLINE: By Lisa Roland

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 214 words


A Manchester-born man has been identified as one of the tourists killed in the
Tunisia terror attack.

Philip Heathcote, 52,was on holiday with wife Allison to celebrate their 30th
wedding anniversary, when they were gunned down in the massacre which claimed at
least 30 British lives.

Mrs Heathcote, who lived with her husband in Felixstowe, is today fighting for
her life in a medically induced coma after undergoing emergency surgery for
multiple bullet wounds. IN PICTURES: Tunisia hotel attack

Tunisia hotel attack

Her brother, Simon Boon, said Mr Heathcote - originally from Manchester - had
"shown my sister love, care and loyalty that was second to none."

Mr Boon added: "Philip originally comes from Manchester and I am sure his family
living there will want to pay their own tributes. The thoughts of our family go
out to them all as we, together, grieve this awful loss.

"Philip was truly Allison's soulmate and they did everything together, sharing
the same interests life offered.

"Philip was without question a member of our family that everyone dearly loved
and enjoyed so many good times with.

"We will, along with his family in Manchester, deeply grieve this terrible
loss." MORE: Tourist's narrow escape from Tunisian beach killer after 'one too
many drinks' night before attack

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 6:28 PM GMT

Family of British jihadi bride who left her Glasgow home to join Isis say they
are 'sickened by her twisted evil' after she wrote a poem praising Tunisia
terror attack

BYLINE: STEPHANIE LINNING FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 461 words



     ·    Asqa Mahmood left Glasgow in 2013 and married an ISIS militant last
          year
     ·    Former private schoolgirl, 20, has since posted radical messages
          online
     ·    In most recent post she celebrates attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and
          France
     ·    Parents have criticised her 'twisted and evil' poem, branding it
          'sickening'


The family of a British woman who fled to join Islamic State in Syria have said
they are 'sickened' by a poem she wrote praising the massacre in Tunisia and
attacks in Kuwait and France.

Former private schoolgirl Aqsa Mahmood left her home in Glasgow in November 2013
and married a militant from the terror group in February last year.

She has since posted a series of radical messages under the nom de guerre Umm
Layth, including a call for others to copy the murder of soldier Lee Rigby and
the Boston Marathon bombing.

In her most recent blog post, the 20-year-old celebrated Friday's terror strikes
as 'revenge' and 'a day that will go down in history'.

Scroll down for video

It emerged in the wake of the shooting at the Tunisian beach resort which left
38 tourists - including 18 Britons - dead, the suicide bombing at a mosque in
Kuwait and the beheading in France.

The poem read: 'In 3 different locations a family was born. It's name was
change, freedom and revenge.'

It continued: 'Kuwait, France and Tunisia is where they reside. They left a mark
which will always remain. Permanent and blunt.'

HATE POEM BY THE JIHADI BRIDE

In 3 different locations a family was born.

Its name was change, freedom and revenge.

Kuwait, France and Tunisia is where they reside. They left a mark which will
always remain.

Permanent and blunt.

Her family have today condemned the poem, describing it as 'twisted and evil'
and saying there was 'no glory' and 'no god' at work in the 'cowardly' strikes.

A statement released by their lawyer said: 'The family of Aqsa Mahmood became
aware yesterday of her blog Umm Layth posting praise for the attacks in Tunisia,
France and Kuwait.

'They are full of rage at her latest diatribe masquerading as Islam during the
holy month of Ramadan.

'Whilst their daughter may have destroyed any chance of happiness for her own
family, they are sickened that she now celebrates the heartbreak of other
families.

'The Mahmood family have a message for any young person attracted to Isis, they
say there is no honour, no glory, no god at work in the cowardly massacre of
holidaymakers, people at prayer in a Shia mosque or an innocent man at his place
of work.'

It added: 'As for Aqsa's words they can only be described as twisted and evil,
this is not the daughter that they raised.

'The Mahmoods' thoughts and prayers are with the families who are grieving for
the loss of their loved ones.'

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   MailOnline

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 3:16 PM GMT

Woman sentenced to death in UAE for murdering US teacher in brutal 'lone terror
attack' with a knife in a shopping mall toilet

BYLINE: JAMES DUNN FOR MAILONLINE

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 971 words



     ·    Dala Al Hashemilay lay in wait with a knife until a Westerner came
          inside
     ·    Stabbed Ibyola Ryan while her twin sons were waiting outside bathroom
     ·    Left a bomb outside the family home of an American doctor later that
          day
     ·    Claimed she was possessed by evil spirits but had links to terror
          groups


A woman who brutally murdered an American teacher in a shopping mall toilet
while her twin sons waited for her outside has been sentenced to death.

The Emirati woman killed Ibyola Ryan and later left a bomb outside the home of
an American doctor after being radicalised online by forums linked to terror
groups Isis and Al Qaeda, a court heard.

The doctor's son found the bomb on the steps of their family home and called the
authorities who made it safe before anyone was injured.

Scroll down for video

The United Arab Emirates court has now sentenced Dala Al Hashemi, aged 30, to
death by firing squad, reports The National.

The court heard how she had contacted various websites that urge Islamic people
to fight and feature hate preaching videos from high-profile terrorists
including Osama Bin Laden.

She had donated money to Al Qaeda in Yemen and was influenced by ideologies from
terrorists she contacted through the Jihadi Islamic Forum before carrying out
the attack, the court heard.

At a previous hearing, the court heard how the woman carried a knife into the
bathroom of a mall in Abu Dhabi in what police called 'a lone terror attack'
last December.

She laid in wait for a Westerner to enter the toilet and tricked Miss Ryan into
coming towards her by claiming she needed her help, then stabbed her repeatedly,
the court heard.

It was later revealed that Miss Ryan's sons, 11-year-old twins Adam and Aiden,
were waiting for her outside the bathroom in the Boutik Mall on Reem Island.

The forensic report shows that Romanian-born Ryan, who used to live in Chicago,
was stabbed in the chest several times, and a puncture to her right lung
eventually lead to her death.

The prosecution lawyer said witnesses said the bathroom looked like a scene from
a horror movie following the attack.

After the murder, police released video of her killer, who was dressed in a
burqa, walking calmly from the mall and into the parking lot.

The court heard how Al Hashemi also allegedly placed a homemade bomb outside the
Corniche apartment of an Egyptian-American doctor, prosecutors said, but it
failed to detonate, according to Gulf News.

The prosecution claimed that she put the bomb at the apartment the same day as
killing Ryan and fingerprints on the door of the bathroom matched those on the
bomb.

Al Hashemi had previously claimed she was possessed by a jinn - an evil spirit -
and was seeing 'ghost-like people', in an attempt to shirk responsibility for
the heartless attack.

But after Judge Falah Al Hajeri ordered a full mental examination, he revealed
that Al Heshemi didn't suffer from mental illness.

'The summary of the report states that the defendant is responsible for her
actions, and that she was aware of and had the will to commit the crime, and no
mental or emotional issue was found,' Mr Al Hajeri said, according to The
National.

Al Hashemi disagreed with the results and told the court that she sometimes
acted without knowing what she was doing.

But the prosecution lawyer said that the medical report proved that the woman's
intentions.

She was also accused of following radical ideologies by terrorist organizations
including Daesh and Al Qaeda. She allegedly created a website under the name
Salma Bin Al Iknow and promoted such ideologies.

Prosecutors also said she used the website Jihadi Islamic Forum to communicate
with members of terrorist organizations, and they claim she was influenced by
ideologies from this site.

The website, which urges people to fight, features speeches from Osama Bin Laden
and other terrorists.

At a previous hearing, the prosecuter said: 'The defendant's mind is filled with
terrorist thoughts, which she spreads. She looked at online websites where she
supported terrorist groups and she had done her research by listening to
lectures and watching videos and photos before attempting her criminal act.

'The defendant carried a knife and chose the toilet as her crime scene,
pretended she needed help and attacked the victim.

'The stories witnesses told in court were like a horror movie and the crime
scene looked like 10 people had been brutally killed.'

The lawyer said Al Hashami had 'given her own money as donations to Al Qaeda in
Yemen and created a bomb to attempt to murder another person.'

She is also accused of following radical ideologies by terrorist organizations
including Isis and Al Qaeda. She allegedly created a website under the name
Salma Bin Al Iknow and promoted such ideologies.

Prosecutors said she used the website Jihadi Islamic Forum to communicate with
members of terrorist organizations, and they claim she was influenced by
ideologies from this site.

The website, which urges people to fight, features speeches from Osama Bin Laden
and other terrorists.

After the attack, Ryan's ex-husband, Paul, and their three children, 13-year-old
Timea and 11-year-old boys Adam and Aiden, spoke about their heartbreak in an
interview with the Today show.

'The boys did not realize what happened and did not hear their mother cry for
help,' he said.

'This lady - I shouldn't even call her a lady - this monster of a person was
lying in wait for someone like her for an hour in the bathroom,' he said,
becoming emotional. 'Unfortunately it was my kids' mother.'

The boys hugged each other as they paid tribute to their mother and said she was
a brave woman.

'She wasn't scared a little bit,' one of the boys said.

'She always just wanted to help you,' Timea said. 'She sacrificed herself for
other people.'

She added: 'As long as we're not alone, we still have each other. We're going to
do it.'

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDM


                   Copyright 2015 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Messenger Newspapers

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Trafford resident tells of Tunisia horror after terrorist attack

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 341 words


A TRAFFORD resident caught up in a terrorist attack in Tunisia has described
hearing gunshots from his hotel balcony.

John Clarke was staying in a hotel nearby the scene of the mass shooting in
Sousse, where a gunman with links to the Islamic State terrorist group murdered
38 innocent people.

More than 30 Britons are thought to have died in the attack, perpetrated by
23-year-old Seifeddine Rezgui, who was shot dead by Tunisian police following
the assault at the Imperial Marhaba hotel.

Sale resident, John Clarke, was staying at a neighbouring hotel and described
hearing loud 'cracks'.

He told the BBC: "Over the loudspeaker there was an announcement telling all the
people here to go up towards reception.

"So everybody wondered what was going on. We ambled up towards reception. As we
were going towards reception we heard a few more cracks."

Remembering an attack that killed more than 20 at Tunisia's Bardo National
Museum in March, John added: "Obviously, knowing what has gone on here before,
we were all a bit suspicious.

"We got into the lobby and we were told all to go to our hotel rooms and stay in
our hotel rooms until further notice.

"When we got up to our hotel room, there was automatic gunfire. A lot of
gunfire. Lots of sirens and obviously people were wondering what was going on.

"We've all got the BBC World Service in our rooms, so we were watching what was
going on, on the TV and the reports were starting to come through.

"We were getting more information off the TV to be honest and when we heard that
five were killed; seven were killed I think the panic in the hotel rose a little
bit, because we were all sort of looking over our balconies, talking between
each other.

"Then we heard that 27 had been killed and then you can see people really
starting to get shocked.

"There were helicopters, ambulances, sirens all over the place.

"At one point, a couple of members of the hotel staff came out and told us to
get in our rooms and lock the balcony."

The attack is the biggest loss of British life since the 2005 London bombings.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Milngavie & Bearsden Herald

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

UK terror warning renewed after Tunisia attacks

LENGTH: 184  words


Police Scotland is warning residents to be "vigilant and alert" about potential
terrorism attacks in the UK.

It follows events in Kuwait, France, and in Tunisia, where the British death
toll could rise as high as 30.

A couple from Cumbernauld are believed to have died, while two others from
Perthshire are still missing.

A Police Scotland spokesman said: "Following the events in Kuwait, France and
Tunisia, Police Scotland together with UK and International Partners are
monitoring the situation and our thoughts are with everyone affected.

"Whilst the UK terrorism threat level remains unchanged at severe, we would like
to reassure the public that we constantly review security plans taking into
account specific intelligence and the wider threat.

"Our priority is the safety and security of the public. We would also like to
reiterate to the communities of Scotland our long standing advice to remain
vigilant and alert.

"As ever we would urge the public to get in touch to report anything suspicious
by calling the confidential anti-terrorist hotline on 0800 789321 or in an
emergency always call 999."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SFMB


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Milton Keynes Citizen

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Tunisian terror attack was not in the name of Islam'

BYLINE: Amanda Devlin

LENGTH: 258  words


A Pakistan welfare group has condemned the Tunisian terror attack that killed
dozens of Britons.

Gunman Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire on sunbathing tourists on a beach in the
resort of Sousse on Friday.

Today, Milton Keynes Pakistan and Kashmir Welfare Association spoke out
following the announcement of a national minute's silence to remember the
victims.

Taj Raja, executive member of MKPKWA, said his group's prayers were with the
deceased.

He said: "It is said that terror knows no religion

"Those involved in these outrageously inhumane acts cannot be allowed to claim
to be inflicting suffering and misery in the name of Islam.

"We deplore all acts of terror and violence in all its forms.

"We shall be offering prayers for all the victims, regardless of race or
religion, at our community Iftar being held at Wolverton Mosque on Saturday,
July 4."

Prime Minister David Cameron said today that an act of remembrance will take
place at noon on Friday, one week on from the beach massacre.

The Milton Keynes Muslim Community are scheduled to celebrate Eid ul Fitre
festival to mark the end of month of Ramadhan on July 18 and 19 at Campbell
Park, which has been organised by MK Islamic Heritage & Culture.

Mr Raja added: "The MKPWA feels it is this type of approach which contributes
towards better understanding, tolerance and cohesion.

"We are grateful to Anouar Kassi, for all his efforts in arranging this every
year.

"We are ourselves will be organising such events to engage all local communities
in order to promote better community relations."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MPMC


                       Copyright 2015 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 11:58 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Childhood photos of killer Seifeddine Rezgui show him
happy and carefree;
Courageous hotel staff filmed Rezgui, 24, as he sauntered casually through the
Imperial Marhaba hotel after killing 38 tourists

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 356 words


Tunisian gunman Seifeddine Rezgui

New childhood photographs of IS killer Seifeddine Rezgui have emerged.

Courageous hotel staff filmed Rezgui, 24, as he sauntered casually through the
Imperial Marhaba hotel after killing 38 tourists.

Rezgui trained for around two years in Libya and was radicalised by extremists
there as well as on-line before carrying out the atrocity.

Yet photos of him as a 10-year-old and as a teenager show him as care-free and
happy.

Various shots also show him break-dancing and at a picnic five years ago,
holding up a fish.

Neighbour Fawzia Chihi, from his hometown of Gaafour, said: "It is impossible to
imagine that the teen at the barbecue and the madman in the video are the same
person.

"No one who knew him or his family can believe he could turn into this monster."

In footage of the attack, panicked locals are seen running for their lives as
Rezgui opens fire with the Kalashnikov.

Gunshots can be heard, along with an explosion, and the cameraman prepares to
tackle him.

He follows him to the beach but has to retreat when Rezgui turns as if to come
after him.

Shortly after, locals give chase and, after cutting through a bar, the cameraman
is just yards away when Rezgui is killed by police.

It has emerged he had trained for around two years in Libya before committing
the terrorist atrocity, and was radicalised by extremists there as well as
on-line.

It has also emerged that Rezgui was probably brainwashed by Tunisian terror
group Ansar al-Sharia, which has links to Britain

It is based in Kairouan where Rezgui studied his master's degree and run by a
radical named Ben Hassine who once lived in London and is a close associate of
Abu Qatada - deported from Britain from 2013.

Now the leader of the town's great mosque named Ansar al-Sharia as among the
most likely groups to have groomed Rezgui for terrorism.

The news emerged as it was revealed Scotland Yard has created its own unit of
130 SAS-style armed officers who can deploy by rope from helicopters and storm
burning buildings to rescue hostages, to battle a terrorist gun attack on
Britain.

Tunisia shooting: People flee in panic as gunmen open fire

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 11:07 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Gunman was NOT a lone wolf, claim witnesses of the beach
massacre;
Seifeddine Rezgui was filmed cutting innocent holidaymakers down with a
Kalashnikov rifle while dressed in black shorts and T-shirt

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 764 words


British tourists who witnessed Seifeddine Rezgui's murderous rampage in Tunisia
have said he was not the only gunman involved in the massacre as first thought.

The 23-year-old IS fanatic was filmed cutting innocent holidaymakers down with a
Kalashnikov rifle while dressed in black shorts and T-shirt.

But two former UK police officers told how they saw a bare chested terrorist
murdering people on sunbeds, who they believe was later shot dead.

And survivor Kirsty Murray said she was hit in the leg by a man with a pistol
who she is convinced was not 23-year-old Rezgui.

There was no sign he was carrying a second weapon.

Tunisia shooting: People flee in panic as gunmen open fire

There has been no official confirmation from Tunisian authorities that a second
or third gunman was involved in last Friday's beach horror that left 38 dead,
including 15 Brits and three Irish.

But one local police officer, who did not wish to be named, said: "I can't say
too much but what I can say is there were two gunmen."

Two "dangerous terrorists" police believe assisted crazed Rezgui are on the run,
Yunisian officials declared.

Photos of Mohamed bin Abdallah, 24, and 28-year-old Rafikhe Tayari were posted
on Facebook in a bid to trace them

Retired UK officer Steve Johnson, 65, told how he and ex-policeman Michael
Perry, 66, spotted a separate gunman to Rezgui during the massacre.

Steve, who was on holiday in Sousse with wife, Valerie, 64, said: "We were on
the beach when I heard gunshots and screaming and I told people to 'run' and got
off the beach as fast as I could.

"We were really close and I could hear just the constant noise of an automatic
weapon.

"I saw a man in red shorts machine gunning someone on a sun lounger. He can't
have been more than 20 yards away from us.

"We ran across wasteland and into a spa and hid in the basement while gunshots
and grenades and everything was going off around us.

"After about 20 minutes we crept up to the third floor and we could see him
shooting people around the pool.

"It was 40 minutes later when a Tunisian policeman came to get us and he took us
through a corridor from the spa to the hotel.

"On the floor was a body, covered mainly with a sheet, but I could see he was
the right build and colouring of the shooter I had seen.

"And he had the red shorts on. Then when we got the news we saw that it was
being reported that there was just a single shooter.

"So I went back to see the Tunisian policeman who said that the guy in red had
definitely been shot. I congratulated him.

"But the second shooter is still not being reported and I don't know why. Mick
had seen both gunmen and we are sure there were two of them."

Michael, who was in Tunisia with wife Angela, 59, said he saw the man in red
shorts "stooped", bare chested and running with a weapon.

He recalled asking a police officer what had happened to him. He replied: "We
shot him".

Kirsty Murray was at the Hotel Marhaba pool with fiance Radley Ruszkiewicz, 29,
when Rezgui opened fire on the adjoining beach.

The 25-year-old, from Braintree, Essex, was hit by shrapnel when a grenade
exploded as they fled through a hotel corridor.

Radley took the bulk of the blast but Kirsty kept on running and was shot in the
leg with a pistol.

Dad Neil, speaking from the hospital where she is recovering, said: "She
believes there were at least two gunmen because she was shot at close range with
a handgun.

"Both her and her fiancé have said there was more than one gunman. One person is
not capable of doing that much damage."

Tunisian police have said they have arrested seven people across three cities in
the wake of the massacre.

Two young men who shared a house with Rezgui in the city of Kairouan were among
them.

Those held were said to be part of a support network around the killer who
helped him plot the attack, in which he was shot dead by police.

The gunman was said to have done a "recce" of the hotel for a month before he
launched his cowardly strike.

British and ­Tunisian officers have been ­quizzing ­survivors to see if he acted
alone.

A team of 600 ­Scotland Yard police have interviewed tourists who have returned
home.

Around 5,000 Brits have flown back to the UK since Friday.

Tunisia Attacks in Pictures

Locals saw Rezgui ­distmantle his mobile phone and throw it in the sea during
the killing spree.

It was found close to the scene and handed to ­authorities who will check to see
if he liaised with accomplices.

The gunman was trained for Jihad in Libya for two years, according to ­Tunisian
reports.

IS in the war-torn country claimed responsibility for the massacre hours after
it ended.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 11:01 PM GMT

Tunisia attack: Faces of two 'dangerous terrorists' hunted in connection with
beach massacre;
Mohamed bin Abdallah and Rafikhe Tayari are believed to have assisted crazed
Seifeddine Rezgui in his rampage that left 38 dead

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 570 words


A manhunt was launched last night for two 'dangerous terrorists' wanted in
connection with the Tunisian beach massacre.

On-the-run Mohamed bin Abdallah and Rafikhe Tayari are believed to have assisted
crazed Seifeddine Rezgui in his beach rampage that left 38 dead, 30 of whom are
feared to be Brits.

The Tunisian Interior Ministry published their faces on its Facebook page and
begged the public for information on the duo.

Abdallah is a 24-year-old student from a northern Tunisian town, while Tayari,
28, is from the capital Tunis.

Officials requested information on their whereabouts or movements.

Fears are mounting that at least one the accomplices of maniac Rezgui acted as a
second gunman and may be still on the loose.

The news came as Tunisian interior minister Mohamed Gharsalli announced the
arrests of seven Tunisians allegedly linked to Seifeddine Rezgui.

Authorities say he acted alone during the rampage in the resort of Sousse but
had accomplices who supported him before, providing him with weapons and
logistical support.

Seven people were arrested in at least three different cities and are being
questioned in the capital, Tunis.

But police and eyewitness are increasingly convinced he had a gun-toting partner
during Friday's rampage.

Last night a Tunisian police source said: "I can't say too much but what I can
say is there were two terrorists. There were two gunmen."

Retired police officer Steve Johnson told today how a second gunman in red
shorts opened fire on tourists on the beach in Tunisia.

Steve Johnson, who witnessed the attack first hand, saw the second gunman in red
shorts while he was taking cover.

Once the shooting had finished, Mr Johnson later described the second gunman to
a high-ranking policeman who told him that a man matching the description was
'dead as well'.

Mr Johnson said: "We saw what we believe was a second terrorist. It was a guy in
red shorts, walking down from the hotel into the pool area. He just had red
shorts on, nothing else on his legs or his feet or his body.

"And he had an automatic rifle in his arms and people were just running from
him."

One elderly British guest at the Marhaba said eyewitnesses were convinced there
was another gunman who came into the hotel reception, at the height of the
mayhem.

Inside the Rui Imperial Mahaba Hotel, Port El Kantaoui near Sousse, Tunisia

"I spoke with guests afterwards, and they thought another man came in and was
firing as the main gunman entered," said the woman, who did not want to be
named.

"It is hard to know, but there appeared to be more than one person firing. The
problem is so many of the people who were here have now gone home.

"There were hundreds of Brits in the hotel on Friday - it was deserted by
Saturday morning."

The vast majority left without giving their account of what happened to the
authorities.

Tunisia shooting: People flee in panic as gunmen open fire

Around 2,500 took off in specially chartered flights on Saturday, and another
2,500 more people were heading back yesterday, as part of holiday firms' efforts
to get those on holiday at the beach resort home as soon as possible.

Thomson and First Choice said expatriated 1,000 of its customers. There are
still 5,400 remaining. There are around 20,000 Brits still on Abta holidays in
Tunisia.

Holidaymakers elsewhere in the country were advised to contact their tour
operator and follow any instructions issued by local authorities.

Tunisia timeline

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 10:33 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: British teenager tried to run but was hit by shrapnel as
her mum was shot in the leg;
Student Naomi Wearing, 18, and her mum Carol Wearing, 46, were injured at the
Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba

BYLINE: By Dan Warburton

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1517 words


A British teenager was floored by grenade shrapnel as her mum was shot in the
leg by crazed Tunisian gunman Seifeddine Rezgui.

Student Naomi Wearing, 18, and her mum Carol Wearing, 46, were injured at the
Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba.

They heard gunshots as they set out for lunch and raced back to the hotel where
staff locked them in a room.

Their chilling account came as the last four British victims receiving treatment
were due to be evacuated from Tunisia in a large-scale RAF mercy mission.

Up to 30 Brits are feared to have died when Rezgui wielded a Kalashnikov and
hurled grenades during a 30-minute rampage in the Tunisian resort.

Carol told how they fled for their lives after the 24-year-old student wandered
into the hotel foyer and sprayed bullets.

Carol said: "Me and Naomi had gone away, just us two. It was a treat before she
goes to university.

"We were walking down to the beach because the restaurant used for lunch is on
the beach. We heard a gunshot, took a few more steps, and then heard a series of
gunshots.

"We ran out the front and just before we got to the front gates, I felt
something shooting through my leg.

"There was no pain, it was just like somebody threw something at my leg. It gave
way.

"There was a gaping hole in my leg and foot."

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

A local taxi driver took off his shirt and wrapped it around Carol's bloodied
limb before carrying her to a nearby disco where a passing ambulance took her to
hospital.

Naomi, who had become separated, went to a nearby clinic.

Carol said: "Her phone was smashed but she managed to call her dad, who asked
her if she had been shot.

"She said she didn't know but she was covered in blood."

The pair were later reunited on the plane back home to Darwen, Lancs, and are
being treated in the Royal Blackburn Hospital.

"We feel lucky to be alive but we can't believe it. Everybody was screaming, 'we
are going to die'," said Carol.

Naomi's brother Stephen, who had himself stayed at the hotel with his girlfriend
last month, wrote on Facebook. "Just to keep everyone informed, my sister has
shrapnel wounds to her back and legs from a grenade, and my mum's been shot in
the leg and foot."

Former St Wilfrid's Academy student Naomi, who is due to start at the University
of Central Lancashire to study to become a social worker in September, was among
12 Brits treated at The Clinic Les Oliviers.

Elsewhere medics treating Gina Van Dort, 30, from Watford - whose husband Chris
Dyer is feared to have been killed in the attack - sent her back to the UK.

She made a 10-minute drive from the Sahloul Hospital to the nearby Monister
Airport by ambulance, before boarding a C17 Globemaster.

Fellow Brit Cheryl Mellor, 55, from Cornwall, who lost her husband, Stephen, 59,
in the attack, was also airlifted back to the UK.

Critically wounded Allison Heathcote - who remains in a medically induced coma -
was comforted at her hospital bed after her son and brother jetted out to
Tunisia.

Brother Jonty Boon, 39, flew out on Monday to be by her side at the private
Essalem Clinic with Allison's distraught son James.

She boarded the RAF flight still in a medically induced coma after being hit by
a barrage of gunfire during Friday's beach massacre.

Jonty, 39, said: "We're hoping she will pull through, nothing is a 100%, but
we're hoping."

John Metcalf, 43, from Hazlemere, Bucks, was returned to the UK after he was
shot in the stomach.

Up to 30 Brits are thought to have been slaughtered in Friday's brutal attack,
with the official figure now standing at 18.

Paramedics revealed they were held outside the complex for an agonising 10
minutes as armed snipers brought Rezgui's reign of terror to an end.

And when they finally gained access to the hotel garden they discovered a scene
of utter devastation, with bodies strewn around the hotel.

Meanwhile details of further Brits feared dead continued to trickle through.

Flowers and a poignant tribute to slain Brits Denis and Elaine Thwaites were
placed at the massacre scene visited by Theresa May.

It showed Denis, 70, alongside Elaine, 69, by a bouquet of flowers. The retired
couple, of Blackpool, Lancs, arrived in Sousse on Wednesday.

In a heart-rending message, their daughter Lindsey and son-in-law Danny wrote:
"You are our world. I loved you so very much. Rest in peace mum and dad."

Former Birmingham City FC teen prodigy Denis sent a text to say they had arrived
safely on Wednesday.

But their family did not hear from them after Kalashnikov-wielding Tunisian
student Rezgui, 23, targeted Western tourists on the beach.

Winger Denis, who broke into the first team aged just 16, and Elaine were
reported on Saturday to be recovering in hospital following the horror attack.

But, their family later said they had been misinformed.

Their son-in-law Daniel Clifford, of Blackpool, said: "We were told by a Thomson
rep through a friend that they were injured in hospital but this turned out not
to be true."

Theresa May visits the attack site in Tunisia

Stuart Cullen, 52, from Lowestoft, Suffolk, was confirmed among the dead.

He was with his wife - who was injured but has now returned home - when he was
gunned down.

The landlord and landlady of Mr Cullen's local pub said they were struggling to
come to terms with his violent death.

Mr Cullen often helped the couple with odd jobs at the King Alfred pub in
Lowestoft, Suffolk, near his home.

His wife Christine is understood to have worked for many years as a travel agent
for Thomas Cook.

The couple decided to jet off to Tunisia for a holiday having recently
celebrated Christine's 50th birthday in Spain.

They arrived in Tunisia just hours before the massacre.

Landlords Mark and Maxine Richards said Mr Cullen was a "real character" and his
death has left a hole in the community.

Mark, 50, said: "We knew him well he would come here every week. I know everyone
says this but he was really was one of the good guys.

"He really would do anything for anyone. He made up the sign outside the pub for
us and helped cover the chairs in the bar.

"He had a bad knee for many years so he hasn't been able to work for a long
time.

"The funny thing is he literally only had an operation on it at the end of last
year and it was a bit better since then.

"Only last weekend he was in here and now he's gone.

"We had a friend who died in the tsunami and that was awful but at least it was
a natural disaster that couldn't be helped. But this is just so hard to come to
terms with."

The couple, who have run the pub for the last eight years, say the family have
been regulars since they took over.

Mark said the couple's daughter Emma-Jayne has worked in the production
department of TV shows including Birds Of A Feather.

He added: "Emma was one thing I know Stuart was very proud of. She was a real
daddy's girl."

Maxine, 57, added: "He was a very popular guy, he had lots of friends down here.
There's going to be a big hole here now.

"He was always laughing and joking. Everyone here is so shocked, it's just
unreal.

"When it's one of your own it really brings it home. He was a real character we
used to have banter all the time."

The couple previously lived in Woodbridge, Suffolk, before moving to Lowestoft.

Mark said Mr Cullen didn't work due to a disability but had previously worked as
a prison guard in Woodbridge and worked offshore for a while.

Elsewhere former Premier League stars and referees paid tribute to three members
of a football-mad family.

Walsall FC fans Adrian Evans, 44, died along with his father, 78-year-old
Patrick Evans, both from Tipton, West Mids., and nephew Joel Richards, 19.

Joel's 16-year-old brother Owen survived the attack and even risked his own life
to help injured holidaymakers.

The family's favourite football club Walsall FC became a focal point for
people's grief with dozens of scarves and shirts laid at the gates of Bescott
Stadium.

Joel, from Wednesbury, West Mids., was a promising FA referee who oversaw
matches across the Midlands and was tipped for future stardom.

Premier League referee Michael Oliver, 30, donated £50 towards tragic Joel
Richards' memory fund which has been set up in his honour.

He wrote on the fundraising website: "Our thoughts are with Joel's friends and
family. RIP x Lucy & Michael Oliver."

Former Aston Villa stars Tony Daley, Nigel Spink and Shaun Teale have all joined
a Facebook group called Owen Richards Fund Tunisian Attack in support of the
family.

Tributes and donations from fellow professional referees poured in.

Experienced Football League referees Geoff Eltringham (corr) and Oliver Langford
donated £20 each to the memory fund.

Mr Langford, from West Midlands, wrote: "The world can be a very cruel place and
leave you asking why. X"

Meanwhile dozens of supporters of various football clubs gathered at Walsall
FC's Banks's Stadium to pay their respects to season ticket-holders Joel and his
uncle Adrian.

Tributes to the three men placed outside Walsall FC's main entrance included
scarves and shirts from West Ham, Bristol Rovers and Shrewsbury Town.

A scarf representing German side Hannover 96 was also left at the stadium
alongside flowers bearing messages of condolence.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 10:02 PM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Brit tourist used tablecloth to treat wounded after beach
bloodbath;
Brian Harrison, a former soldier, was visiting a spa at the Sousse beach resort
during a two-week break with his wife when the terror attack took place

BYLINE: By mirror

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 308 words


A holidaymaker has told how he used tablecloths to treat people wounded in the
Tunisian beach massacre.

Brian Harrison, a former soldier, was visiting a spa at the Sousse beach resort
during a two-week break with his wife when the terror attack took place.

A total of 38 people, including up to 30 Britons, died after the gunman opened
fire in the resort on Friday.

Mr Harrison, 56, from Rosehill in Aberdeen, said it was not immediately clear
what had happened.

He said: "I heard what I thought was gunfire. I told the masseuse and she said
'it can't be', and carried on."

Tunisia Attacks in Pictures

However as soon as he found out what had happened he rushed to help, using
whatever came to hand to treat the wounded and support survivors.

He said: "I couldn't find any first aid kits so I grabbed a cloth off the
table."

He added: "There were people who just needed someone to speak to - who could
explain what was going on.

"My natural personality is quite jokey. And obviously you need to rein that in
at times. But sometimes it can really help.

"I ended up speaking to a British girl who had shrapnel wounds and a badly
broken arm. She asked if I could go to the hospital with her, so I did."

Meanwhile, Mr Harrison's wife - a surgical nurse - was also helping survivors.

Later he contacted the Tunisian Red Crescent to offer his help as a first
aid-trained English speaker.

The couple have now been flown back to the UK.

The British Red Cross have sent four specialist psycho-social volunteers to
support British holidaymakers caught up in the attack and has opened a
supportline for people in the UK 0844 4631 345.

The local Tunisian Red Crescent also responded within minutes of the attack,
bringing injured people to hospital and providing first aid and basic supplies
to hospitals.

Tunisia Attack survivors relive the moment they had to run for their lives

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:20 PM GMT

Tunisia attack: Inside the bare and filthy flat of terrorist who slaughtered
innocent holidaymakers;
The flat of Seifeddine Rezgui was bare and filthy, newly emerged footage seems
to show

BYLINE: By Ruth Halkon

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 734 words


Dramatic video footage shows inside the bare and filthy flat of the terrorist
who slaughtered nearly 40 holiday makers on a Tunisian beach

Seifeddine Rezgui lived in squalor, with rubbish strewn across the floor, in the
apartment he shared with other students.

On Friday, the 24-year-old gunman shot and killed 38 people, including 30 Brits,
in a bloody rampage on the beach at Sousse which ended with his death.

His fridge contained only a few potatoes, chili peppers and tomatoes - as if he
knew he would not be needing any more food.

Empty bottles, pots and plastic bags lay underneath the basin while the floor is
covered in dirt.

A knife and fork still sat on a dinner table as if for his final meal before he
set out to commit the atrocity.

The footage was taken from Tunisia's Mosaique station, who posted it on its
YouTube page on Saturday.

Rezgui was an aviation student who was previously unknown to Tunisia's
counter-terrorism officials and appears to have been radicalised in the last six
months.

The killer was described as a football-loving young man who started to raise
concern as he posted extremist messages on social media and praised jihad.

Rezgui came from the town of Gaafour in the Siliana region, the country's prime
minister Habib Essid said yesterday.

In the months before the atrocity, he was based in the Islamic town of Kairouan,
30 miles from Sousse. He had never travelled abroad.

He lived with four other young men also thought to be students, and was studying
aviation at the local university - just as Mohammad Atta, the 9/11 leader, did
before the terrorist attack on the Twin Towers in New York.

When they moved into the house in the R'bib Sidi Belgacem district a year ago,
neighbours were alarmed by their attitude.

"They didn't even say hello to us," said Salah Korbia, who lives opposite the
tiny mosque where they spent much of their time.

"Everyone in the neighbourhood was against them being there," he said.

A Facebook page believed to have belonged to him shows him posting about Real
Madrid and the Tunisian national football team.

Rezgui's uncle said he was "just like the other young men" who liked to play
football or go to a cafe after praying in the local mosque.

He loved break dancing and entered several competitions in the capital city
Tunis and a video has emerged appearing to show him dancing around five years
ago.

Just hours before the attack, Rezgui was at home talking with his uncle about
his life and studies.

"Everything was perfectly normal," his uncle Ali Bin Muhammad Rezgui said. The
distraught 70-year-old said: "He was with me on Thursday. We sat in the garden
and he was perfectly normal.

"We had no idea what he was planning. We talked about his life and studies. That
was the last time I saw him.

"He was a sweet boy when he was younger. He was a breakdancer and loved
football. He should have had a long, happy life."

Neighbours suggested the gunman may have been brainwashed.

Monia Riahi, 50, who is a neighbour and family friend, described him as "good,
good, good!".

She told the Observer: "I've known him since he was small. He was never in
trouble with anyone ever. Maybe he was brainwashed or something."

Rezgui's father, who is a day labourer working on farms or the nearby railway
line was taken to the Tunisian capital for police questioning.

Neighbour Ammar Fazai, 64, told the Observer: "I think maybe, just maybe, it was
poverty that did it."

A Tunisian Interior Ministry source said that while Rezgui did not have a
criminal record, he was known to authorities for 'low level radicalism' and was
once stopped by police for smoking cannabis.

The source confirmed that Rezgui was an active member of a radical group called
Islamic Youth and would go to mosques controlled by radical preachers.

Images have emerged of the the gunman standing barefoot on the beach dressed in
a black T-shirt and shorts, with a gun in his hand

Photographs taken after the attack appeared to show Rezgui's body after he was
shot by police.

A picture released by Islamic State showed clean-cut Rezgui dressed in a crisp
white T-shirt wearing an easy smile as he carried off a relaxed pose for the
camera.

IS posted on the internet: "Soldier of the Khalifat, Abu Yahya AlQuirawani, may
God accept him, a night of the Sousse invasion in the Muslim Tunisia."

The only clues as to the aviation student's deadly mission were two Kalashnikovs
in the otherwise nondescript background.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 6:25 PM GMT

Tunisia attack: Up to five British terror plots foiled in last few months
reveals David Cameron;
The Prime Minister told the House of Commons 'prominent plots, perhaps as many
as four or five, in the last few months, in this country, have been prevented'

BYLINE: By Dan Bloom

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 518 words


Security forces have stopped up to five 'prominent' terror plots on British soil
in the last few months, David Cameron has said.

The PM has made his claim in the House of Commons after MPs fell silent in
memory of up to 30 Britons murdered in the Tunisia attack.

Home Secretary Theresa May has already said 40 terror plots have been disrupted
in Britain in the last 10 years.

And today Mr Cameron told MPs: "There have been some very great successes in
taking ISIL social media sites pages off the web.

"And indeed a number of plots, prominent plots, perhaps as many as four or five,
in the last few months, in this country, have been prevented.

Cameron: Security forces have foiled 4 or 5 'prominent' ISIS plots in the last
few months

"I think it's very important that we talk up our capabilities and strength and
resolve in this way."

His statement came after Tory MP John Baron criticised the government for not
doing enough to disrupt flows of money from Arab countries to Islamists.

The PM added more needs to be done and the 'finance needs to be attacked'.

Mr Cameron's near-2-hour appearance before MPs also revealed police and
counter-terror officers will launch a major, 2-day training exercise in the
heart of London tomorrow.

The exercise was listed by the PM as one of a string of measures to toughen up
the UK's response to extremists.

But a Metropolitan Police spokesman was keen to stress the operation's date had
already been fixed before 38 people were slaughtered at the beach resort of
Sousse on Friday.

"The national policing response is likely to be one of the largest
counterterrorism operations in a decade," the Prime Minister said.

Funding has already been increased for counter-terror police and on Wednesday
new laws will force councils, prisons and schools to take extra steps to
pinpoint extremism at its source.

The House of Commons was packed for a minute-long show of solidarity today after
it emerged 30 Brits could have been massacred.

The Prime Minister said there will be a national minute's silence at noon on
Friday, a week after gunman Seifeddine Rezgui slaughtered 38 in the resort of
Sousse.

Most were tourists and many are still being identified because they were not
carrying wallets or mobile phones in their beachwear.

But he said the battle is not one against Islam - instead against a twisted
ideology that a student used for evil.

He declared: "We must take on the radical narrative that is poisoning young
minds.

"The people who do these things do them in the name of a twisted and perverted
ideology that hijack Islam and argue that murder is not just acceptable but
necessary.

The House of Commons pays tribute to the victims of the Tunisia Attack

"We will stand in solidarity with all those outraged by this event, not least
the overwhelming majority of Muslims in this country and around the world.

"For this is not the war between Islam and the west that ISIL want you to
believe

"It is a generational struggle between an minority of extremists who want hatred
to flourish and the rest of us who want freedom to prosper - and together we
will prevail."

Whatsapp Mirror Politicsa

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 5:54 PM GMT

Tunisia attack: Major counter-terror training exercise lasting two days will
start in London tomorrow;
The two-day operation has been revealed by the PM in the House of Commons, where
MPs fell silent today to remember up to 30 British victims

BYLINE: By Dan Bloom

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 736 words


Police and counter-terror officers will launch a major training exercise in the
heart of London tomorrow in the wake of the Tunisia attack.

The two-day operation has been revealed by Prime Minister David Cameron in the
House of Commons, where MPs fell silent today to remember up to 30 British
victims.

He said: "Over the next two days our security forces and emergency services will
conduct a major training exercise in London to test and refine the UK's
preparedness for dealing with a serious terrorist attack."

The exercise was listed by the PM as one of a string of measures to toughen up
the UK's response to extremists.

But a Metropolitan Police spokesman was keen to stress the operation's date had
already been fixed before 38 people were slaughtered at the beach resort of
Sousse on Friday.

Tunisia Attack: David Cameron claims this is not a war between Islam and The
West

"The national policing response is likely to be one of the largest
counterterrorism operations in a decade," the Prime Minister said.

Funding has already been increased for counter-terror police and on Wednesday
new laws will force councils, prisons and schools to take extra steps to
pinpoint extremism at its source.

The House of Commons was packed for a minute-long show of solidarity today after
it emerged 30 Brits could have been massacred.

The Prime Minister said there will be a national minute's silence at noon on
Friday, a week after gunman Seifeddine Rezgui slaughtered 38 in the resort of
Sousse.

Most were tourists and many are still being identified because they were not
carrying wallets or mobile phones in their beachwear.

But he said the battle is not one against Islam - instead against a twisted
ideology that a student used for evil.

He declared: "We must take on the radical narrative that is poisoning young
minds.

"The people who do these things do them in the name of a twisted and perverted
ideology that hijack Islam and argue that murder is not just acceptable but
necessary.

"We will stand in solidarity with all those outraged by this event, not least
the overwhelming majority of Muslims in this country and around the world.

The House of Commons pays tribute to the victims of the Tunisia Attack

"For this is not the war between Islam and the west that ISIL want you to
believe

"It is a generational struggle between an minority of extremists who want hatred
to flourish and the rest of us who want freedom to prosper - and together we
will prevail."

The Prime Minister described the victims as 'British holidaymakers, people who
had saved up for special time away with their friends and family and suddenly
became the victims of the most brutal terrorist attack for many years'.

He sent his 'deepest condolences' after chairing the fourth meeting of the
government's COBRA emergency committee in as many days.

"While we believe he was the sole gunman it is believed he may have been part of
an ISIL-inspired network," he said.

He also referred to Islamist killings on the same day in Kuwait, Kobane and
France which killed nearly 150 other people.

"Although all these attacks were driven by the same perverted underlying
ideology, there is no evidence to date that they were coordinated," he said.

Mr Cameron said the government now has more than 50 people on the ground helping
victims and their families.

There is a military medical team, and an RAF C-17 transport plane has just
landed in Sousse to bring home some of the seriously injured.

The RAF will arrange repatriation of all British nationals whose families want
them taken home, 60 family liaison officers are working back in the UK.

More than 20 special flights have already brought hundreds home, and more than
380 police officers including counter-terrorism specialists have been meeting
those coming home to Britain at airports.

The Foreign Office is still not advising against all but essential travel to
Tunisia's beach resorts, as agreed by COBRA, but this 'will be kept under close
review'.

"These are difficult judgements," the PM said. "Nowhere is without risk

"Here in the UK the threat level remains severe meaning a terrorist attack is
highly likely."

But he added: "We will not give up our way of life or cower in the face of
terrorism

"These terrorists tried to strike in places of hope... but the Tunisians and
Kuwaitis will not have that hope taken away from them.

"They will not be cowed by terror and we will stand with them."

Whatsapp Mirror Politicsa

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 10:42 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Latest UK victim named as 52-year-old Stuart Cullen;
Stuart Cullen, 52, from the Lowestoft area in Suffolk, died in Friday's attack,
Suffolk Police have confirmed

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 283 words


The identify of another of the 30 British victims of the Tunisia massacre has
been identified.

Stuart Cullen, 52, from the Lowestoft area in Suffolk, died in Friday's attack,
Suffolk Police have confirmed.

It is believed he died instantly and was with his wife at the time. She suffered
injuries but survived and has returned to the UK.

A spokesman said: "The family has asked that their privacy is respected as they
try to cope."

Meanwhile, OPM David Cameron said the Government was ready to repatriate
victims' bodies if requested by their families.

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

"We are very happy to look at that. There are all sorts of other arrangements
being put in place but I am keen that, as a nation, we show respect and our
condolences ... and if they would like for us to try and bring back the bodies
of their loved ones with dignity and respect that is something we can do."

The Prime Minister renewed his appeal for an end to the use of the name Islamic
State.

"I wish the BBC would stop calling it 'Islamic State' because it is not an
Islamic state.

3 minute long footage shows gunman's last moments in Tunisia as brave hotel
staff chase after the killer

"What it is is an appalling barbarous regime that is a perversion of the
religion of Islam and many Muslims listening to this programme will recoil every
time they hear the words.

"'So-called' or Isil is better," he said - using the abbreviation of the title
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.

He said the "poisonous death cult" was "seducing too many young minds in Europe,
in America, in the Middle East and elsewhere and this is going to be the
struggle of our generation and we have to fight it with everything we can."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 9:38 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Girlfriend of Premier League star who lost mum in
massacre demands answers from David Cameron;
Chloe Fulford, 24, tweeted the Prime Minister following her mum Sue Davey's
death in the beach massacre

BYLINE: By Steve Robson

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 767 words


The partner of Premier League footballer Marc Albrighton has demanded action
from David Cameron after her mum was killed in the Tunisia beach massacre.

Chloe Fulford, 24, said her family has been left "completely heartbroken" by the
death of her mum Sue Davey in the shooting on Friday.

For the latest on the Tunisia attack - following our live blog.

Mum-of-three Ms Davey, 43, and her partner Scott Chalkley, 42, were killed in
the gunfire while on a holiday to celebrate buying their first home together.

tweet 1

tweet 2

tweet 3

Suzanne's daughter Chloe lives with Leicester City winger Marc Albrighton in
Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands.

Suzanne lived in Tamworth, Staffs, and worked as a manager in the complaints
department for Severn Trent Water.

Her son Conor Fulford , 23, who works as a football coach in Massachusetts, USA,
tweeted: "Love you always Mom, I've got my teddy bear you got me tonight, Rest
easy xxxx"

Leicester City Football Club issued a statement offering support to winger
Albrighton and his partner Chloe, who is Sue's eldest daughter.

The Premier League club said: "Leicester City Football Club offers its sincerest
condolences to Marc Albrighton, his partner Chloe and their family after
learning of the deaths of Chloe's mother, Sue, and her partner, Scott, during
Friday's attacks in Tunisia.

Conor Fulford

"They are all in our thoughts and prayers."

Suzanne and Scott, from Chaddesden, Derby, had been together for two years.

3 minute long footage shows gunman's last moments in Tunisia as brave hotel
staff chase after the killer

In a series of tweets to the Prime Minister, Chloe asked David Cameron what the
government is doing to combat terrorism.

She wrote: "Hi David, my mom Sue Davey was one of the people killed yesterday in
Tunisa.

"Our family are completely heartbroken as you can imagine.

"The majority of people have been absolutely amazing and make me proud to be a
British citizen. "

"I just need one question answering. What are we doing to prevent this happening
again?

"This needs action it's gone on to (sic) long and I pray no other family go
through what my family have gone through in these last few days, and for the
rest of our lives.

"We need to take action. We can overcome this as a country we just need the go
ahead we're all waiting for.

"Please talking about what has happened is going to get us nowhere we need to
talk about what we're going to do as a country to stop this.

"Please get back to me today my Mom deserves an answer."

Theresa May yesterday urged parents to report their children to the police if
they feared they had been radicalised.

Speaking in the wake of the Tunisian massacre, the Home Secretary warned that
Britain remained at risk of "lone wolf" terror attack.

She said the threat posed by terrorism had become "more diverse" and the
government needed families and communities to alert them to potential dangers.

Security chiefs are worried about "bedroom radicalisation" which sees young
people brainwashed by extremist views dispersed online.

Mrs May said that since December 2013 over 70,000 pieces of material have been
taken down from the web.

The Government would soon be unveiling a new counter extremism strategy aimed at
stopping radicalisation, particularly in the Muslim community.

David Cameron will make a Commons statement today to update MPs on the Tunisian
attack. There are fears the UK death toll could rise from 15 to 25, possible
higher. Three of the British victims remain in intensive care and a further two
are in comas.

Britain is to send more security advisers in Tunisia and has offered to work
with the authorities there on how it can improve security around tourist areas.

Tunisia Terror attacks: 15 Brits feared dead in Sousse shooting

The PM also spoke to Belgian premier Charles Michel yesterday, following calls
with France's Francois Hollande and Germany's Angela Merkel earlier, to discuss
the international response to the IS threat.

Ex-Army boss Lord Richard Dannatt said more must be done on the ground to
confront Islamic State forces.

"On the military lines we have got to do much more to support those in the
region who are fighting Islamist extremists on the ground.

"Yes, we can support them from the air, we should be doing more of that, but we
should be doing more to support them on the ground as well.

"More training teams, better equipment and really giving those who are willing
to fight the best chance of succeeding, because to succeed on the ground is the
really important thing to do," he said.

Theresa May says there is no no evidence to suggest that Tunisia attacks were
targeted solely on British tourists

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:36 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Wannabe MP condemned after taking SELFIE on beach at
scene of massacre;
Amran Hussain, 29, an Army reservist who stood for Labour in North East
Hampshire in the recent election, was seen with friends taking a snap with a
selfie stick on the beach

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 432 words


A wannabe MP has been blasted for posing for a SELFIE on the Tunisian beach
where a crazed ISIS gunman gunned down 38 people.

Amran Hussain, 29, an Army reservist who stood for Labour in North East
Hampshire in the recent election, was seen with friends taking a snap with a
selfie stick on the beach that witnessed scenes of unbridled savagery a short
time before.

The picture has sparked outrage on Twitter, with users branding the picture
"shameless" and "a disgrace".

But Mr Hussain, who was in the hotel next to the one attacked, has defended the
picture, claiming he spent a long time paying his respects at the crime scene.

Read more: Latest updates as massacre British death toll may rise past 30

He wrote: "On Saturday morning we went to show our respects to all the innocent
people who lost their lives.

"My friends and I walked silently from our hotel to the site with a bouquet of
flowers, where together we laid them down with others' tributes, then held hands
and took a moment to pray for all those who fell victim to the terrorist attack,
their loves ones, and all those who may be affected.

"We also prayed for all the locals and their families who will likely be badly
affected by the lack of tourism for the foreseeable future, we wished them all
the best.

"We took a few pictures to share with the world to show that we care about and
love the country and its people, and that we did go out to the site to show
solidarity and support, and in defiance to the terrorists.

"As you can see we took photos and posted them, for many reasons, to remember,
to show those at home that their loved ones were being remembered, and to show
the Tunisian people we care for them and we will be forever indebted to them
risking their lives to save ours."

"I apologise from the bottom of my heart to anyone who may have been offended by
previous reports in the media relating to this tragedy. Clearly no offence but
only true and great respect was intended."

Tunisia terror attack: scenes of chaos as emergency services transport injured
from beach to hospital

The British death toll in the Tunisian beach massacre is expected to double to
at least 30, sources have said.

The latest figure comes after Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond warned that it
was highly likely a "significant number" of victims yet to be identified would
be British.

David Cameron has pledged the UK will not be cowed by the atrocity, vowing to
"stand up for our way of life" and insisting the "great British spirit" would
triumph in the face of adversity.

Inside the Rui Imperial Mahaba Hotel, Port El Kantaoui near Sousse, Tunisia

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 7:56 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: Devoted couple slain on beach days before due to meet the
Queen;
Jim McQuire, 66, and wife Ann, 63, decided to go on holiday only one week in
advance of a royal garden party

BYLINE: By Sam Webb

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 517 words


A Scots couple killed in Tunisia had only booked the holiday at the last minute.

Jim McQuire, 66, and wife Ann, 63, were due to fly home tomorrow to attend the
Queen's Garden Party in Edinburgh.

The devoted couple were among 38 people killed by a gunman in the resort of
Sousse.

Their friend Marjory Williamson revealed that Ann and Jim, who had recently
retired, had gone to Tunisia on a late deal.

She told the Daily Record: "They were enjoying life so much.

"The holiday was booked just a week in advance and they said they loved having
the freedom to do that now Jim is retired."

Former engineer Jim and Ann flew to Tunisia from Glasgow last Sunday.

They were both shot on the beach. Ann died on the spot and Jim passed away in
hospital shortly afterwards.

The couple, who leave a son, Stuart, 32, were invited to Wednesday's garden
party at the Palace of Holyroodhouse after a lifetime of commitment to the
Church of Scotland and Jim's many years as a Boys' Brigade captain.

They also did community and charity work in Glasgow's east end, where they were
from originally.

Marjory, 71, said the couple, who lived in Cumbernauld, were devoted to each
other.

She added: "Jim and Ann were loving their retirement.

"Jim was a keen hillwalker and Ann had taken a wee part-time job in a medical
lab in Coatbridge after working for many years as a medical receptionist."

BB captain Andrew Eadie, 67, said: "Jim texted me to say he was in Tunisia and
that he would be back early on Monday to get ready for the garden party.

"I got the call from Marjory late on Saturday. I didn't want to believe it."

The couple were regulars at Abronhill Church, where Jim was captain of the 5th
Cumbernauld BB company.

Prayers were said for him and Ann at yesterday's morning service.

The Rev Joyce Keyes said: "This is very emotional. They were very active in the
church. Jim was an elder.

"They were a very young retired couple. They were enjoying the opportunity just
to take off on holiday.

"They were devoted to each other."

The couple's neighbours were also in shock.

David Wharton, 53, said: "When I heard the news, I sat and cried all night.

"They were lovely. Jim came in and fixed my frozen pipes and you would always
see him in the garden.

"To think this loving couple are not coming home is incomprehensible."

David's wife Lynn Ann, 43, said: "Jim was skipper at all levels of the BBs  and
was captain to our son Jamie, who is nine and in the Anchor Boys.

"It is very difficult for children to take in because there is no explanation as
to why."

Another neighbour, Margaret Peet, 77, said: " I'm broken-hearted. They will be
sorely missed here."

Marjory said the couple were considerate to everyone.

She added: "They were extremely kind and helpful. I had an accident last year
and Jim and Ann were on the scene right away and came to hospital with me."

Jim retired last year from BAE's Scotstoun shipyard, where he worked on newly
launched vessels.

Ann sang and she and Jim both played guitar. They played in a folk band called
the Tartan Spirits.

The couple's son Stuart, who married Nicola in October, was too upset to talk
about the tragedy.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 1:40 AM GMT

Tunisia attack: Theresa May urges parents to report 'radicalised' kids to
police;
The Home Secretary warned that Britain remained at risk of "lone wolf" terror
attack and said the threat from terrorism had become more 'diverse'

BYLINE: By Jason Beattie

SECTION: NEWS,UK NEWS

LENGTH: 483 words


Theresa May yesterday urged parents to report their children to the police if
they feared they had been radicalised.

Speaking in the wake of the Tunisian massacre, the Home Secretary warned that
Britain remained at risk of "lone wolf" terror attack.

She said the threat posed by terrorism had become "more diverse" and the
government needed families and communities to alert them to potential dangers.

"If they are seeing signs of somebody being radicalised, if they are concerned
about the behaviour perhaps of their son or daughter, or perhaps of somebody's
friend, that they actually are able to come forward to the authorities and talk
to us about this.

"So that we can perhaps stop somebody from going down that path of
radicalisation. Communities working with us, spotting a change in behaviour in
people is very important," she told the BBC's Andrew Marr show.

She added: "We see that you have not just those who will plot for some time
perhaps in a group to undertake a complex attack, but also the possibility of
more spontaneous attacks, these so-called lone wolf attacks.

"The threat has become more diverse, which is why we need to sustain our
capabilities."

Security chiefs are worried about "bedroom radicalisation" which sees young
people brainwashed by extremist views dispersed online.

Mrs May said that since December 2013 over 70,000 pieces of material have been
taken down from the web.

The Government would soon be unveiling a new counter extremism strategy aimed at
stopping radicalisation, particularly in the Muslim community.

David Cameron will make a Commons statement today to update MPs on the Tunisian
attack. There are fears the UK death toll could rise from 15 to 25, possible
higher. Three of the British victims remain in intensive care and a further two
are in comas.

Britain is to send more security advisers in Tunisia and has offered to work
with the authorities there on how it can improve security around tourist areas.

Tunisia Terror attacks: 15 Brits feared dead in Sousse shooting

The PM also spoke to Belgian premier Charles Michel yesterday, following calls
with France's Francois Hollande and Germany's Angela Merkel earlier, to discuss
the international response to the IS threat.

Ex-Army boss Lord Richard Dannatt said more must be done on the ground to
confront Islamic State forces.

"On the military lines we have got to do much more to support those in the
region who are fighting Islamist extremists on the ground.

"Yes, we can support them from the air, we should be doing more of that, but we
should be doing more to support them on the ground as well.

"More training teams, better equipment and really giving those who are willing
to fight the best chance of succeeding, because to succeed on the ground is the
really important thing to do," he said.

Theresa May says there is no no evidence to suggest that Tunisia attacks were
targeted solely on British tourists

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 12:57 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: British survivor shot in both legs says 'more than one
gunman' carried out massacre;
Kirsty Murray was shot by a man carrying a handgun who she believes was not
Seifeddine Rezgui

BYLINE: By Sam Adams

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 235 words


A British woman shot in both legs during the Tunisia gun attack insists more
than one man carried out the killing.

Kirsty Murray was shot by a man carrying a handgun who she believes was not
Seifeddine Rezgui.

Rezgui is the gunman pictured on the rampage with an automatic rifle who was
eventually killed by police.

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

Ms Murray was at the swimming pool with her fiance Radley Ruszkiewicz at the
Hotel Marhaba in Sousse when Rezgui opened fire on holidaymakers, the Daily Mail
reports.

The 25-year-old, from Braintree in Essex, says she was not wounded by bullets
from Rezgui's AK-47 but by a small calibre weapon.

Her father Neil told the Mail that she and her fiance ran from the pool into the
hotel and into a corridor where a grenade exploded.

He was badly injured but she was able to carry on fleeing but ended up at a
dead-end where she was shot in the legs at close range.

He said: "He was shooting women in the legs and men in the head - and he stepped
back over her a couple of times but she played dead.

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

"She believes there were at least two gunmen because she was shot at close range
with a handgun.

"Both her and her fiancé have said there was more than one gunman."

At least 38 people were killed in the gun attack.

At least 30 of the dead are believed to be British - although only 12 have been
named so far.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  mirror.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 12:10 AM GMT

Tunisia terror attack: British tourist escaped gun massacre because of a
HANGOVER;
David Schofield, 27, heard the explosions and gunfire from his hotel room after
having a few too many gin and tonics the night before

BYLINE: By John Scheerhout

SECTION: NEWS,WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 438 words


A British tourist has told that he survived the Tunisia gun massacre because he
was in bed with a hangover.

David Schofield, 27, said he might have been killed had it not been for 'one too
many gin and tonics the night before'.

The concert pianist said the full trauma of what happened only dawned on him
when he arrived home and saw news footage of the massacre, which has claimed at
least 15 British lives, Manchester Evening News reports.

"The more images we see the more we realise it was just behind our hotel. It was
a two-minute walk away. We realised what we were hearing but not seeing," he
said.

He continued: "We had been down on that beach before and the only reason we
weren't down there that day was because was because we had a few too many gin
and tonics the night before.

"The day before we were on that beach exactly where it happened and we were
very, very lucky we were not there on the day it happened.

Tunisia terror attack: gunman seen running along beach front

"That's the really scary but for us. We had met up with a couple from Stoke and
that's the only reason we stayed up slightly later. We had planned to go down to
the beach."was beside the pool at Royal Kenz hotel when he heard the sound of an
exploding grenade.

David, from Heald Green, Stockport, and his girlfriend, Nicole Harris, 25, from
the Isle of Sheppey, were evacuated into the hotel lobby with hundreds of other
patrons, the Manchester Evening News reports.

"We heard an explosion and the sound of gunfire and we knew then the beach was
the centre of what was going on," said David, who was then told to stay in his
room.

The couple remained there for nine hours until they managed to get on one of the
first rescue flights out of Tunisia, landing at Gatwick Airport at 7am on
Saturday.

Tunisia Terror Attack: The British victims

David said the full trauma of what happened only dawned on him when he arrived
home and saw news footage of the massacre, which has claimed at least 15 British
lives.

"The more images we see the more we realise it was just behind our hotel. It was
a two-minute walk away. We realised what we were hearing but not seeing," he
said.

He continued: "We had been down on that beach before and the only reason we
weren't down there that day was because was because we had a few too many gin
and tonics the night before. The day before we were on that beach exactly where
it happened and we were very, very lucky we were not there on the day it
happened.

"That's the really scary but for us. We had met up with a couple from Stoke and
that's the only reason we stayed up slightly later. We had planned to go down to
the beach."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDMI


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                  The Northern Echo (Newsquest Regional Press)

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

New footage emerges of Tunisia terror attack as minute's silence announced

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 788 words


SUSPECTED associates of the Tunisian beach gunman have been arrested as new
footage emerges of the terror attacks in the holiday resort of Sousse.

Tunisian interior minister Mohamed Gharsalli said a "significant number" of
individuals allegedly linked to Seifeddine Rezgui have been detained.

David Cameron today announced there will be a nationwide minute's silence at
midday on Friday, while Home Secretary Theresa May condemned the "despicable act
of cruelty" after she visited the scene of the attacks.

A total of 38 people, including up to 30 Britons, died after 23-year-old student
Rezgui opened fire in the resort of Sousse on Friday.

The self-proclaimed Islamic State - also known as Isil - later claimed
responsibility.

The number of British victims confirmed dead reached 18 today but it is expected
to rise to around 30 in the coming days.

Announcing the minute's silence, Mr Cameron told MPs: "I know the whole country
will want to share in a moment of remembrance."

The Prime Minister, who earlier described the "existential threat" posed by IS
as "the struggle of our generation", told the Commons: "We will not give up our
way of life or cower in the face of terrorism."

He added: "This is not the war between Islam and the West which Isil want people
to believe - it is a generational struggle between a minority of extremists who
want hatred to flourish and the rest of us who want freedom to prosper -
together we will prevail."

He said Britons were not being advised to stay away from Tunisia's coastal
resorts despite the bloody events at Sousse, while he also disclosed that a
major exercise will take place in London this week to ensure the UK is prepared
to deal with terrorism.

Home Secretary Theresa May travelled to Tunisia today. She laid flowers and
observed a period of silence at the scene of the attack.

Speaking later at a press conference, she said: "How could a place of such
beauty, of relaxation and happiness, be turned into such a scene of brutality
and destruction?"

She said she had heard "horror stories" of those caught up in the attack and
accounts of "great bravery", including Mathew James, who was hit in the hip,
chest and pelvis as he shielded wife-to-be Saera Wilson from gunfire.

Mrs May held talks with Tunisian, German, French and Belgian ministers on
addressing the threat posed by IS.

"We are very clear that the terrorists will not win. We will be united in
working together to defeat them, but united also in working to defend our
values," she said.

Downing Street said all British nationals injured would be returned within the
next 24 hours.

Four people needing treatment are being flown back to the UK on board an RAF C17
plane with "medevac" teams experienced at bringing injured service personnel
back from operations overseas. The aircraft left the Brize Norton base in
Oxfordshire at lunchtime.

The Prime Minister said the Government is working "as fast as we can" to get
information to families still waiting in anguish for news of missing loved ones
three days after the attack.

His spokeswoman said that delays in identifying the dead are due in part to the
fact that the holidaymakers may not have been carrying identification at the
time of the attack.

In two cases where authorities "feared the worst", individuals thought to have
possibly been victims of the gunman were this morning tracked down alive and
well in the UK, she said.

Mr Cameron's spokeswoman said that UK authorities were "working closely" with
relatives of those killed to offer help with the repatriation of the bodies of
their loved ones, and that some were expected to be brought home this week.

Holiday firms Thomson and First Choice issued a statement saying they are "aware
that some families continue to wait for news of their loved ones".

It added: "We would like to reassure those in this position that we are doing
everything we can to provide information as soon as we are able to do so."

Former navy chief Lord West said Britain must step up the "propaganda war"
against Islamic State, also known as Isil or Isis, who he said were "running
rings around us in terms of the social media they are putting out".

He also suggested the UK should consider joining the US in air strikes on IS
targets in Syria and the West should consider working with Syrian president
Bashar al-Assad.

Scotland Yard has said more than 600 officers are involved in what is its
largest counter-terrorism operation since the 7/7 bombings.

London mayor Boris Johnson said: "Our thoughts are with the victims and their
families. We don't at the moment think there is any read-across with security in
London.

"Clearly it is also very poignant that this should happen just at the moment
that we are preparing next week to memorialise 7/7."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Oxford Mail

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Plane from RAF Brize Norton to bring back tourists after Tunisian terror attack

BYLINE: Martin Elvery

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 98 words


A TRANSPORT plane has been sent from RAF Brize Norton to Tunisia today to help
evacuate British tourists wounded in a terror attack.

The C17 transport plane will bring back four Britons who were injured when a
gunman opened fire at a beach resort in Sousse on Friday.

It follows the attack by lone gunman Seifeddine Rezgui, who opened fire on
holidaymakers at the beach near the Imperial Marhaba hotel.

The Foreign Office has confirmed 12 people are still missing after the attack.
It is believed as many as 30 Britons could have been killed.

For advice visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice/tunisia

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Tunisia's Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba hit by terrorist attack

SECTION: AFRICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST; Product Breakthroughs

LENGTH: 255 words



HIGHLIGHT: At least 38 people were killed and 39 seriously injured after a
gunman opened fire at a beach outside Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba, in Sousse,
Tunisia.


At least 38 people were killed and 39 seriously injured after a gunman opened
fire at a beach outside Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba, in Sousse, Tunisia.

Extremist group ISIS has claimed responsibility for the attack through an audio
recording, but it has not been clarified if the group had any direct role in it,
reported CNN WIRE.

On Friday, a young man appeared on the shore carrying a beach umbrella with a
Kalashnikov rifle hidden underneath. He reportedly tested it with two shots and
later targeted it towards those on the beach, which included guests of Hotel Riu
Imperial Marhaba.

The gunman later made his way into the main hotel grounds at the outdoor pool
where many guests escaped after hearing the firing prior to his entrance into
the hotel. The gunman later tossed a grenade that exploded in the hotel
compound.

The attacker reportedly targeted foreign tourists, as nearly 95% of those killed
were British, German and French.

Hotel Riu Imperial Marhaba is as an all-inclusive hotel which overlooks the Port
El Kantaoui. It contains indoor and outdoor pools, including one for children,
and features modern day amenities with buffet style and theme restaurants, as
well as a gym and whirlpool bath.

Tunisia was not the only place hit by a terrorist attack, as last week an
unidentified man caused an explosion at a chemical plant near Lyon, France.

ISIS also claimed responsibility for the bomb attack on Shiite-affiliated
Al-Sadiq mosque in Kuwait's capital during Friday prayers, which left 25 dead
and more than 200 injured.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           rossendalefreepress.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 8:48 AM GMT

Rossendale family only 'five-minute walk away' from Tunisian beach terror attack
;
Lee Garry, a petrol station cashier from Stacksteads, was celebrating his 24th
birthday when they heard the sound of shooting

BYLINE: By John Scheerhout

LENGTH: 284 words


Rossendale family in Tunisia

A young father has described how he feared his family were 'not coming home'
when he heard the sound of gunfire during the Tunisian beach terror attack.

Lee Garry, a petrol station cashier from Stacksteads, was celebrating his 24th
birthday beside the pool at nearby hotel Mahaba when he saw people 'running from
the beach with their towels.'

The massacre had happened a 'five-minute walk away', he said.

He was with his fiancé Clarice Broughton, 21, their daughter Masie and Lee's
grandmother Margaret, 65, when they heard the sound of shooting.

"Everyone came running from the beach with their towels. They were saying there
had been a terrorist attack on the beach," said Lee.

He added: "We were supposed to be on that beach at that time. I don't know what
made us stay beside the pool.

"We heard these cracks and we saw three or four helicopters flying over the
hotel and we just went into panic.

"I didn't think we were coming back. I thought we were going to get bombed or
something.

"Everyone was saying 'Isis'. I just thought 'we're in for it' and 'we're not
coming home'."

Lee has not told his daughter, who was four on Sunday, the full horror of why
the family's two-week holiday lasted only four days.

The family managed to get on one of the early rescue flights which landed at 4am
at Manchester Airport on Sunday where their jet was boarded by anti-terrorism
police.

Lee said: "Anti-terrorism police came on the plane as soon as it landed. They
took us into a big room and spoke to all of us.

"Whoever had witnessed anything had to stay behind. After that we were allowed
through to passport control and picked our bags up.

"We're just glad we're back home."

Tunisia hotel attack

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBRFP


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 08:45 PM GMT

Tunisia Terror Attack: Where Is Still Safe?

SECTION: MEDIA

LENGTH: 370 words



HIGHLIGHT: Terror attacks and the threat to British nationals abroad has left
people wondering whether their holiday plans should change.


  Travel companies took a hit when the markets opened for the first time since
Friday's terror attack in Tunisia.

So, of the holiday hotspots popular with British people, where is safe and what
are the threats?

Here is our guide to some of those countries:

:: High Alert

The UK, Australia, Spain and France are all rated by the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office as having a high or severe threat of terrorism.

While the FCO says Indonesia is safe to visit, it also says the country has a
high threat of terrorism.

Other potential danger spots include Lebanon, where the borders with Syria and
Israel, along with part of the capital Beirut, are no-go zones, and the
country's central mountain range is categorised as "essential travel only".

The FCO advises against all travel to some parts of Israel on the Lebanese and
Syrian borders.

Visitors are also warned of a risk of security incidents in Jerusalem and Tel
Aviv - with particular care and vigilance advised on public transport.

Warnings for Egypt, where foreigners "could be targeted in tourist resorts" are
highest close to the borders.

While there is said to be a risk to safety around official buildings and
security forces, the FCO points out that the resorts of Sharm el Sheikh and
Hurghada are subject to enhanced security.

The last terror attack in South Sinai involving British nationals was in 2006,
when 23 people died.

Those visiting Thailand are warned to remain vigilant considering previous
attacks on popular tourist areas - but the worst of the problem is in the far
south.

Similarly, visitors to Algeria are advised to seek information before heading
for much of the country, but there are also large swathes where people are told
to stay away.

More than 2.5 million Brits visit Turkey every year and while they are told to
exercise caution, the most serious risk is close to the border with Syria.

:: Medium Alert

Among the countries deemed to be under a general threat from terrorism, Italy,
Greece, Cyprus, Germany and the USA have some of the most attractive resorts for
British people.

Travellers going to these countries, along with resorts in Morocco, UAE are
warned that attacks could be indiscriminate.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Sky News

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 06:56 AM GMT

Tunisia Terror Attack: New Footage Of Rampage

BYLINE: Stuart Ramsay, Chief Correspondent in Sousse

SECTION: TOP STORIES

LENGTH: 419 words



HIGHLIGHT: The most comprehensive video to emerge showing the Tunisia terror
attack as it unfolded has been obtained by Sky News.


  The video is violently graphic and conveys a sense of how truly chaotic and
frightening it must have been to be caught up in this deadly terrorist incident.

It also shows how remarkably brave so many hotel workers and local people were
in trying to bring it to a close and save their foreign guests.

The footage emerged as sources told Sky News that the number of Britons killed
in Sousse on Friday has doubled to 30.

The pictures show the moment that Selfeddine Rezgui begins his attack inside the
hotel grounds.

He has already murdered dozens on the beach but had come in to find new targets.

The sounds of gunfire, an explosion and screams adds to the sense of utter
terror that was by then sweeping through the whole hotel complex.

Despite this the staff keep moving forward.

The images captured by a local man show men trying to identify where the gunman
is.

At one point we hear the cameraman whisper: "He's coming this way."

But he doesn't run. He picks up a bottle from the bar to defend himself and
moves forward.

For the first time we see Rezgui on the hotel grounds.

He is walking towards the beach just yards from the cameraman, his machine gun
raised ready to kill again.

Then quiet as the camera follows him to the beach. He is the first survivor
there. It is utterly horrendous.

It is silent save for his breathing and occasional gasps as he surveys the
carnage.

Bodies litter the beach, sprawled over and under sunloungers. Their dreadful
wounds exposed in terrible detail.

The cameraman is dazed and wanders through the chairs muttering.

The silence is suddenly broken by the haunting wails of the survivors.

As others start to arrive they spot the killer on the beach ahead of them and
they set chase.

"Come on," somebody shouts "He hasn't got the balls for this."

En masse the crowd run down the beach as Rezgui tries to escape down a small
road.

The cameraman takes a short cut through a beach club but has to stop at the gate
as the gunman fires back at his pursuers.

Within seconds they continue to follow him.

They are only yards behind him when another volley of fire signals that the
terrorist is dead, killed by armed police.

It is a remarkable film and a remarkable illustration of courage, bravery and
determination not to let a terrorist win.

PHOTO:

Link to Image

VIDEO:

Hotel Staff Follow Him As He Murders His Victims

The most up to date and comprehensive video yet seen has emerged of the attack
on the Tunisian holiday makers, as it is in full swing.

Link to Video

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                              Copyright 2015 BSkyB
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Somerset County Gazette

                              June 29, 2015 Monday

Somerset man ran towards gunfire to help Tunisia terror attack wounded

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 534 words


With the British death toll in the Tunisian beach massacre expected to double to
at least 30, a former soldier from Somerset man has spoken how he ran towards
the gunfire to help the wounded, passing just feet from the gunman.

Keith Hawkes, a 70-year-old former Gurkha from Highbridge risked his own life to
help wounded holidaymakers, saying that his military training kicked in.

Mr Hawkes told the Telegraph newspaper: "It was my training, we had to go and
help them.

"I saw the gunman; I almost passed within feet of him trying to get to all those
dead bodies

Adding: "Why he didn't shoot me, I'll never know."

The latest figure for British victims comes after Foreign Secretary Philip
Hammond warned that it was highly likely a "significant number" of victims yet
to be identified would be British.

A total of 38 people were killed when a gunman opened fire on a beach in the
Sousse resort on Friday, with the the Foreign Office already confirming 15 of
them were from Britain.

At a briefing following an emergency meeting of cobra, Home Secretary Theresa
May also said the British deaths figure was expected to rise as more information
comes out.

Three Irish people are also among the dead.

Mr Hammond said there had been delays in identifying victims because many were
"dressed for the beach, not carrying ID physically on them".

He added: "There are a significant number of victims who have not been
positively identified at this time and it is highly likely that a significant
proportion of them will be British."

He said it was "extraordinarily difficult" to predict where the next attack will
happen and was no more likely to be in Tunisia than in a European city.

"Our agencies have been very frank about this over a long period of time now,
they cannot guarantee that we will be safe from this kind of self-radicalising
lone-wolf attack. It is the most difficult type of attack to detect and predict
and therefore the most difficult kind to protect against."

Marking the gravity of the attack, the Queen took the unusual step of sending
her condolences to the families of those killed in the atrocity.

She said the incident had left her and the Duke of Edinburgh "shocked".

The monarch also sent her "deepest sympathy" to those injured in Friday's brutal
slaughter.

As tributes were paid to the victims by family and friends, Buckingham Palace
released a statement from the Queen saying: "Prince Philip and I were shocked to
learn of the attack on British tourists in Tunisia on Friday.

"We send our sincere condolences to the families of those who were killed and
our deepest sympathy to the people who are still fighting for their lives in
hospital, and those who have been seriously injured.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with those of all countries who have been affected
by this terrible event."

The killing spree by Kalashnikov-wielding student Seifeddine Rezgui targeted
western tourists on the beach at the RIU Imperial Marhaba and the RIU Bellevue
and only ended when he was shot dead by police. A bomb was found on his body.

Investigators have revealed they are looking for at least one more accomplice,
with an Interior Ministry spokesman telling the Associated Press they are sure
that Rezgui had help.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 7:55 AM GMT

Tunisia massacre: 2,500 British holidaymakers flee country in wake of Sousse
terror attack that killed 38

BYLINE: Ramzy Alwakeel

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 410 words


Travel agents were today set to evacuate at least 2,500 British holidaymakers
from Tunisia after an ISIS gunman opened fire at a popular beach resort, killing
39.

The first thousand people have already arrived back in Britain, with more
expected across other flights later today.

Thomson and First Choice confirmed their customers were among those who died in
Friday's Sousse shooting, for which the terrorist group has claimed
responsibility.

But Tui, which runs both firms, could not confirm how many people involved had
travelled with it.

The operators have now cancelled all trips to the middle-eastern country for the
next week.

Yesterday's horror unfolded when a young man - named by ISIS as Abu Yahya
al-Qayrawani, according to SITE Intel Group - pulled out a Kalashnikov hidden in
a beach parasol and fired at sunbathers near the Imperial Marhaba hotel. He was
later shot dead by police.

Ten Thomson flights are scheduled to arrive at airports across the UK, including
Gatwick.

A statement from the firm said: "We would like to extend our deepest sympathies
to the friends and families of those involved in this tragic event.

"We are actively working with the families and friends affected to provide
support in resort and a special assistance team is en route to Tunisia to assist
our customers.

"The whole of Thomson and First Choice are deeply shocked and truly saddened by
the events and we are grateful to our staff on the ground and the emergency
services who are working hard in an incredibly challenging environment."

Customers can change bookings to Tunisia until July 24, the company said.

Meanwhile Thomas Cook, which has sent an additional plane to the country to help
bring home its own tourists, is offering holidaymakers the chance to change or
cancel future bookings to Tunisia free of charge.

Tunisia terror attack

Anyone due to fly on or before July 4 can either cancel or move their trip,
while anyone flying between July 5 and July 31 can amend their bookings but will
not be able to cancel without a fee.

Yesterday's tragedy came as a man was decapitated and several others were
injured at a French factory, and at least 25 people were killed in a suicide
attack at a Shia mosque in Kuwait.

Related stories

The atrocities saw a pledge from Scotland Yard to ramp up security measures for
Pride London and Armed Forces Day events.

Thomson has advised anyone worried about friends or family to call 0800 088
5372.

Additional reporting by Press Association

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 7:55 AM GMT

Tunisia massacre: At least 15 Britons now confirmed dead after 'worst terrorist
attack on British people since 7/7'

BYLINE: Tom Marshall

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 379 words


At least 15 Britons were killed in the Tunisian beach massacre, it has been
confirmed.

Foreign Minister Tobias Ellwood said 15 British people were now confirmed dead
but the toll "may well rise" following the shootings, with several more
seriously injured.

He described yesterday's horrific events at a holiday resort near Sousse as "the
most significant terrorist attack on the British people" since the London
bombings on July 7, 2005.

Tunisian student Seifeddine Rezgui opened fire on Western tourists with a
Kalashnikov at the popular resort.

Speaking in the Foreign Office, Mr Ellwood said: "Sadly, I can confirm that at
least 15 British nationals were killed in yesterday's atrocity but I should
stress that the number may well rise as several more have been seriously injured
in this horrific attack."

Tunisia terror attack

He added: "This is the most significant terrorist attack on British people since
7/7 and highlights the ongoing threat of Isil."

Thirty-nine holidaymakers have been confirmed dead following the atrocity, with
Irish, Belgian and German nationals also among the victims.

Rezgui was said to have laughed and joked as he targeted British and French
tourists and sprayed them with gunfire. He was shot dead by police.

Related stories

Mr Ellwood said this act of "evil and brutality" demonstrates why this kind of
extremism has to be confronted "wherever this happens" at home or abroad.

Asked if he feared further attacks on Britons abroad, he said: "We always have
to be vigilant wherever we are in the world and we are doing our utmost to work
with the international community to make all our places of interest safer."

Islamic State has claimed it is behind the attacks and has reportedly identified
Rezgui by his jihadi pseudonym Abu Yahya al-Qayrawani.

The 23-year-old Tunisian aviation student disguised himself as a tourist and
began firing at holidaymakers on a beach using the gun he had hidden in a beach
umbrella.

One thousand holidaymakers have already returned to the UK from Tunisia on
special flights after a gunman opened fire on a beach resort, with 5,400 still
in the country.

Travel firms Thomson and First Choice confirmed that "a number of fatalities"
and those injured are their customers and said around 2,500 people will be
brought back today.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 9:27 PM GMT

Tunisia appeals for information on two 'dangerous terrorists' wanted over Sousse
attack;
The appeal came as security forces arrested at least a dozen people in the
search for accomplices of slain gunman Seifeddine Rezgui

BYLINE: By James Badcock Sousse

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 488 words


Tunisian authorities on Monday night launched a public appeal for information on
two "dangerous terrorists" wanted in connection with Friday's beachside
terrorist attack, as security forces made the first arrests in the search for
accomplices of slain gunman Seifeddine Rezgui.

The Tunisian Interior Ministry released photos of Mohammed Ben Abdullah bin
Muhsen Al Sharadi, 24, a student from a northern Tunisian town, and Rafique Bin
Mohammed Najib Ben Ali Al Tayari, 28, from the capital, asking for tip-offs as
to their whereabouts.

Earlier, at least a dozen people associated with Rezgui were arrested in a huge
security operation. Sources in Rezgui's hometown of Gaafour said the swoop
included four friends who had worked with the engineering student in a local
cafe.

Tunisian authorities had arrested Rezgui's parents shortly after the attack, but
they have since been released.

The extremist group Isil has claimed responsibility for Friday's massacre and
the Tunisian authorities are investigating whether the 23-year-old had visited
neighbouring Libya for terrorism training.

Announcing the arrests, Tunisian interior minister Mohamed Najem Gharsalli told
reporters that Monday's detentions marked the start of an ongoing process of
uncovering Rezgui's support group.

"We have started by arresting a first group, a significant number of people from
the network that was behind this terrorist criminal", Mr Gharsalli said.

The Tunisian government believes that Rezgui launched the attack on the beach
alone, but suspects that he had a support network which may have helped him
reach the scene and prepare his arsenal of weapons.

But there are still questions over whether Rezgui was the sole shooter, with
some eyewitness accounts mentioning a second gunman.

A retired police officer told on Monday how a second gunman in red shorts opened
fire on tourists on the beach in front of the luxury Hotel Imperial Marhaba.

Steve Johnson, who witnessed the attack first hand, described how he saw a man
in red shorts holding an automatic rifle who was shooting tourists along with
the gunman in dark clothing. Rezgui was wearing a black T-shirt and black
trousers.

Once the shooting had finished, Mr Johnson later described the second gunman to
a high-ranking policeman who told him that a man matching the description was
"dead as well".

Mr Johnson, who comes from Leicester, said: "We saw what we believe was a second
terrorist. It was a guy in red shorts, walking down from the hotel into the pool
area. He just had red shorts on, nothing else on his legs or his feet or his
body.

"And he had an automatic rifle in his arms and people were just running from
him."

Workers from hotels adjacent to the Imperial Marhaba have described a solitary
gunman who produced a Kalashnikov from a parasol and began firing on tourists on
the beach and inside the hotel complex. No one appears to have noticed Rezgui
arriving at the beach.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 6:50 PM GMT

David Cameron on Tunisia: "We will prevail" against terrorism;
Prime Minister David Cameron announces a national minute's silence on Friday at
midday to remember the victims of the Tunisia and Kuwait terror attacks

BYLINE: By Charlotte Krol and PA, video source ITN

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 154 words


David Cameron has vowed "we will prevail" in the generational struggle against
extremism, as he addressed the Commons in the wake of the terror attacks in
Tunisia and Kuwait .

The Prime Minister said there would be a nationwide minute of silence on Friday
to remember the British victims killed in Sousse, Tunisia, confirming the latest
UK toll stands at 18 with more deaths likely to be confirmed in the coming days.

Mr Cameron told MPs there was no evidence the attacks - claimed by Islamic
State, also known as Isil - were "directly co-ordinated" but outlined a series
of plans at home and abroad to confront those who would do Britain harm.

He said: "This is not the war between Islam and the West which Isil want people
to believe - it is a generational struggle between a minority of extremists who
want hatred to flourish and the rest of us who want freedom to prosper -
together we will prevail."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 29, 2015 Monday 6:45 PM GMT

Tunisia: travel advice for tourists after terrorist shooting in Sousse;
Do the latest terrorist attacks in Tunisia mean tourists can change or cancel
their plans for travel to resorts in the country?

BYLINE: By Natalie Paris

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 818 words

Can I cancel my holiday to Tunisia?

Despite last week's horrific attacks, tour operators and airlines are under no
obligation to provide a refund should you decide not to travel to Tunisia.

"In theory, unless the Foreign Office advises against travel to Tunisia, or the
areas that holidaymakers are travelling to, those who are due to depart for the
resorts - including Sousse, where the shootings took place - have no option but
to go or lose their money," Nick Trend, Telegraph Travel's consumer advice
expert, said. "Tour operators are entitled to uphold their booking conditions
and cite Foreign Office advice that the resorts are safe.

"Technically, when you book a package holiday - covered via the Civil Aviation
Authority's ATOL (Air Travel Organisers' Licensing) protection scheme - you are
bound by the booking conditions. For cancellations, these normally require you
to forfeit your deposit - or the full balance, if you have already paid it - if
you cancel."

However, all those we spoke to are giving customers due to travel soon the
chance to switch to an alternative destination.

· Tunisia attack - latest

Which tour operators are allowing travellers to cancel?

Abta, the Association of British Travel Agents, said: "Many of our members who
have operations in Tunisia are offering customers the option to amend or cancel
their bookings. Customers due to travel are advised to contact their tour
operator for their options."

Thomson and First Choice has cancelled all holidays to Tunisia up to and
including July 9, and are scheduling extra flights to Cape Verde, Rhodes and
Gran Canaria for customers wishing to change their holidays. It added on Monday
that customers planning to travel to Tunisia at any time until the end of the
summer season (October 31) will be able to amend their holidays free of charge
to any of their destinations.

Thomas Cook customers due to travel to Tunisia up to and including July 12 can
cancel or amend their holiday free of charge. Those travelling from July 13
onwards can amend their bookings to free of charge for holidays departing up to
and including October 31.

Jet2, together with Jet2 Holidays, has cancelled all flights and holidays to
Tunisia up to and including July 5. Jet2holidays customers will be offered a
full refund or the option to change their booking without an amendment fee for
departures in the next five weeks.

easyJet passengers who are booked to travel to Monastir within the next 14 days
(until July 13) are allowed a free flight transfer on any date and on any route,
or alternatively a flight voucher to the value of their unused flight sectors.
Passengers wishing to do so are advised to call easyJet Customer Services team.

Customers who booked through Monarch or Cosmos Holidays travelling to Tunisia
within the next seven days can choose a new date or destination. Customers
affected should call its customer service teams on 0333 003 0700 for Monarch, or
0844 573 4952 for Cosmos.

· Tunisia: lessons weren't learnt after Bardo shooting

What if I'm visiting Tunisia later this summer?

While tour operators are allowing those about to travel the chance to cancel or
rearrange their trip, normal booking conditions apply for most due to travel at
the height of summer (Thomson/First Choice customers excluded).

"If you have booked a Tunisian holiday several months ahead and have already
paid a deposit, you will probably have to hold tight and see if the situation
settles down, or if the Foreign Office changes its advice," said Nick Trend. "If
the Foreign Office does strengthen its warnings and advises against travel to
certain resorts prior to the holiday's start, travellers should get a full
refund."

What about travel insurance?

Travel insurance will cover the costs of cancellation for specific reasons, such
as ill health, but not if you are simply nervous about travelling.

Advice to those who do travel

Travel advice for Britons on the Foreign Office website warns: "Further
terrorist attacks in Tunisia, including in tourist resorts, are possible,
including by individuals who are unknown to the authorities and whose actions
are inspired by terrorist groups via social media. You should be especially
vigilant at this time and follow the advice of Tunisian security authorities and
your tour operator.

"If you are in the area you should keep in touch with your tour operator and
follow any advice from Tunisian security authorities." It has opened a hotline
for British nationals currently in Tunisia on +44 207 008 0000.

424,707 British nationals visited Tunisia in 2014. Terrorist attacks have
increased in the country since 2013. In October 2013, there were failed attacks
at a hotel in Sousse and the Bourguiba Museum in Monastir. Since then, members
of the Tunisian security forces have been targeted in terrorist-related
incidents at various locations, mainly near border areas, including in the
Chaambi Mountains.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 12:28 PM GMT

Tunisia attack: survivors' stories;
Watch as British survivors of the Tunisia terror attack tell of their close
encounters with the gunman who killed 38 people

BYLINE: By Telegraph Video video source ITN

LENGTH: 116 words


British survivors of the Tunisian terror attack have been speaking about what
they witnessed after a gunman opened fire on holidaymakers.

Selfeddine Rezgui killed at least 38 people in the resort of Sousse on Friday.

In this video survivor Tony Callaghan said: "I could hear my wife shouting 'Help
me! I've been shot' and it could have been a click of a finger as to whether we
lived or died."

Another survivor, Ross Thompson said: "A bullet ricocheted off the marble wall
and the shrapnel off the bullet when straight through my toe and foot."

Watch this video to hear more from the brave survivors of Friday's attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 29, 2015 Monday 12:09 PM GMT

Tunisia: travel advice for tourists after terrorist shooting in Sousse;
Do the latest terrorist attacks in Tunisia mean tourists can change or cancel
their plans for travel to resorts in the country?

BYLINE: By Natalie Paris

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 962 words

Can I cancel my holiday to Tunisia?

Despite last week's horrific attacks, tour operators and airlines are under no
obligation to provide a refund should you decide not to travel to Tunisia.

"In theory, unless the Foreign Office advises against travel to Tunisia, or the
areas that holidaymakers are travelling to, those who are due to depart for the
resorts - including Sousse, where the shootings took place - have no option but
to go or lose their money," Nick Trend, Telegraph Travel's consumer advice
expert, said. "Tour operators are entitled to uphold their booking conditions
and cite Foreign Office advice that the resorts are safe.

"Technically, when you book a package holiday - covered via the Civil Aviation
Authority's ATOL (Air Travel Organisers' Licensing) protection scheme - you are
bound by the booking conditions. For cancellations, these normally require you
to forfeit your deposit - or the full balance, if you have already paid it - if
you cancel."

However, all those we spoke to are giving customers due to travel soon the
chance to switch to an alternative destination.

· Tunisia attack - latest

Which tour operators are allowing travellers to cancel?

Abta, the Association of British Travel Agents, confirmed yesterday that there
were around 20,000 holidaymakers on holiday with its members in Tunisia, as well
as many independent travellers.

"Many of our members who have operations in Tunisia are offering customers the
option to amend or cancel their bookings," an Abta spokesman said. "Customers
due to travel out in the next two days are advised to contact their tour
operator for their options. Those due to travel after this are advised to wait
for further information as phone lines are likely to be very busy."

Thomson and First Choice have sent extra planes to Tunisia to repatriate 1,000
guests staying in Port El Kantaoui and Sousse, cancelled all holidays to Tunisia
for the week commencing June 29, and are scheduling three extra flights to Cape
Verde, Rhodes and Gran Canaria for customers wishing to change their holidays.
Those who cancel will get a full refund, TUI, its parent company, said. Anyone
with concerns about friends and families should call 0800 0885372.

Thomas Cook said it had brought back around 1,100 guests who wanted to leave
Tunisia earlier than scheduled.

Thomas Cook customers due to travel to Tunisia up to and including July 4 can
cancel or amend their holiday free of charge. Those travelling to Tunisia from
July 5 up to and including July 31 can amend their bookings free of charge. Its
helpline for customers is 01733 224 536.

Jet2 repatriated customers from Enfhida on Saturday. It had 1,244 passengers in
Tunisia. Together with Jet2 Holidays, it is cancelling all flights and holidays
to Tunisia up to and including July 5. Jet2holidays customers will be offered a
full refund or the option to change their booking without an amendment fee. Jet2
customers will be given a full refund.

easyJet provided an additional flight to London Stansted on Saturday afternoon
for customers who wished to fly home early from Monastir, Tunisia, and upgraded
other return flights to a larger aircraft.

easyJet passengers who are booked to travel to Monastir within the next 14 days
are allowed a free flight transfer on any date and on any route, or
alternatively a flight voucher to the value of their unused flight sectors.
Passengers wishing to do so are advised to call easyJet Customer Services team.

Monarch said that no Cosmos or Monarch Holiday hotels were involved in the
incident. Customers who booked directly through Monarch or Cosmos Holidays
travelling to Tunisia within the next seven days can choose not to travel and
will be offered a new date or destination. Customers affected should call its
customer service teams on 0333 003 0700 for Monarch, or 0844 573 4952 for
Cosmos.

· Tunisia: lessons weren't learnt after Bardo shooting

What if I'm visiting Tunisia later this summer?

While tour operators are allowing those about to travel the chance to cancel or
rearrange their trip, their goodwill is likely to run out, and normal booking
conditions (see above) will once again apply.

"If you have booked a Tunisian holiday several months ahead and have already
paid a deposit, you will probably have to hold tight and see if the situation
settles down, or if the Foreign Office changes its advice," said Nick Trend. "If
the Foreign Office does strengthen its warnings and advises against travel to
certain resorts prior to the holiday's start, travellers should get a full
refund."

What about travel insurance?

Travel insurance will cover the costs of cancellation for specific reasons, such
as ill health, but not if you are simply nervous about travelling.

Advice to those who do travel

Travel advice for Britons on the Foreign Office website warns: "Further
terrorist attacks in Tunisia, including in tourist resorts, are possible,
including by individuals who are unknown to the authorities and whose actions
are inspired by terrorist groups via social media. You should be especially
vigilant at this time and follow the advice of Tunisian security authorities and
your tour operator.

"If you are in the area you should keep in touch with your tour operator and
follow any advice from Tunisian security authorities." It has opened a hotline
for British nationals currently in Tunisia on +44 207 008 0000.

424,707 British nationals visited Tunisia in 2014. Terrorist attacks have
increased in the country since 2013. In October 2013, there were failed attacks
at a hotel in Sousse and the Bourguiba Museum in Monastir. Since then, members
of the Tunisian security forces have been targeted in terrorist-related
incidents at various locations, mainly near border areas, including in the
Chaambi Mountains.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTNS


                  Copyright 2015 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  23:39:04

