



Download Request: Select Items: 2001 - 2500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:49:50
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             March 23, 2009 Monday
                                 2 Star Edition

GORD'S ARMY;
HOME GUARD OF 60,000 TO DEAL WITH TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 251 words


A NEW generation of Dad's Army-style volunteers is being trained to protect
Britain from the threat of terrorism.

And just like the original wartime Home Guard recruits will come from all walks
of life.

Some 60,000 civilians are being taught how to deal with terror strikes as part
of what has been dubbed Gord's Army - after the scheme was unveiled yesterday by
Gordon Brown.

The volunteers include shopkeepers, hotel workers, security guards and football
stewards. But unlike the bumbling characters led by Captain Mainwaring in the
hit TV comedy, their role will be deadly serious. Around half have already been
shown how to react to bombings and other atrocities.

They will also be drilled on evacuation techniques and emergency treatment for
blast survivors.

Government experts have worked with employers to draw up Operation Argus as
ministers prepare to unveil a new raft of anti-terror plans.

The threat level is currently "severe", which means attacks are highly likely
but not thought to be imminent. Mr Brown stressed that efforts are being made to
ensure Britain is ready. He said: "The emergency services, local councils,
businesses and community groups are all involved in state-of-the-art contingency
planning.

"Tens of thousands of men and women throughout Britain have now been trained and
equipped and know what to watch for as people go about their daily business."

Details of the new anti-terror strategy - following recent outrages including
the Mumbai hotel attacks - will be published tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DON'T PANIC Brown how he might look as Corporal Jones

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             March 23, 2009 Monday
                                 Ulster Edition

GORD'S ARMY;
60,000-STRONG HOME GUARD TO DEAL WITH TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 251 words


A NEW generation of Dad's Army-style volunteers is being trained to protect the
UK from the threat of terrorism.

And just like the original wartime Home Guard recruits will come from all walks
of life.

Some 60,000 civilians are being taught how to deal with terror strikes as part
of what has been dubbed Gord's Army - after the scheme was unveiled yesterday by
Gordon Brown.

The volunteers include shopkeepers, hotel workers, security guards and football
stewards. But unlike the bumbling characters led by Captain Mainwaring in the
hit TV comedy, their role will be deadly serious. Around half have already been
shown how to react to bombings and other atrocities.

They will also be drilled on evacuation techniques and emergency treatment for
blast survivors.

Government experts have worked with employers to draw up Operation Argus as
ministers prepare to unveil a new raft of anti-terror plans.

The threat level is currently "severe", which means attacks are highly likely
but not thought to be imminent. Mr Brown stressed that efforts are being made to
ensure Britain is ready. He said: "The emergency services, local councils,
businesses and community groups are all involved in state-of-the-art contingency
planning.

"Tens of thousands of men and women throughout Britain have now been trained and
equipped and know what to watch for as people go about their daily business."

Details of the new anti-terror strategy - following recent outrages including
the Mumbai hotel attacks - will be published tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 24, 2009 Tuesday

TV show discusses terror attacks on Pakistan Day, situation in Swat, Waziristan

LENGTH: 1588 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1700 gmt on 23 March relays live
regularly scheduled "Today with Kamran Khan" programme. Noted Pakistani
journalist Kamran Khan reviews, discusses and analyzes major day-to-day
developments with government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and
prominent analysts in Geo TV's flagship programme; Words within double slant
lines are in English

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment I

Kamran Khan says: "the nation observed the 69th Pakistan Day today, but the same
day was chosen by anti-Pakistan forces to remind the Pakistanis that Pakistan at
present is the biggest //victim// of terrorism and Pakistan faces biggest threat
from extremism and terrorism." Khan adds: Pakistan Day ceremonies were held
throughout Pakistan today, but terrorists carried out their attacks at the end
of day and the first target was police's Special Branch Office [SBO] near Sitara
Market in G-7 Markaz where a suicide bomber blew himself up outside the gate of
SBO in which two people were killed. Continuing, Khan says: it was a well
planned operation and the police SBO was selected as the target because it is
involved in intelligence operations. Khan adds: reports were also received at
the time of the attack in Islamabad that terrorists have also carried out
attacks in Kohat and Naushera.

Kamran Khan plays video report prepared by Geo News Correspondent Naveed Ahmed
on observance of Pakistan Day. The report says: today's functions included a
special ceremony in Islamabad where President Zardari presented awards to
Pakistanis for excellence in various walks of life, but the traditional military
parade was not held, perhaps, because of the fact that more than 100,000
Pakistani troops are busy operating in "anti-insurgency areas", while the
country's "economy and the government system" are in "extremely miserable
plight." The report adds: defense circles are pointing out that the annual
military parade was also not held last year due to the "threat of terrorism,"
but it has been officially stated that the parade this year was cancelled
because of "expense burden on the national exchequer."

Segment II

Kamran Khan says Prime Minister Yousuf Reza Gillani paid a visit to Raiwind
[Sharif family's residence] yesterday and conveyed a "concrete message of
reconciliation on behalf of the government and the Pakistan People's Party
[PPP]" to the Pakistan Muslim league-Nawaz Sharif [PML-N]. Khan adds: Gillani
emphasized that he is visiting Raiwind at the "desire of President Asif Ali
Zardari." Continuing, Khan adds: the PML-N remains committed to its stand that
the Punjab provincial assembly session should be convened to ascertain which
party enjoys majority, which should be invited to form the Punjab government.
Continuing, Khan says: observers, however, believe that an "//understanding//"
has now been reached in the background of Gillani's meeting with Nawaz Sharif
with regard to the PML-N's demand that 24 February situation [the PML-N
government before the imposition of governor's rule in Punjab] is restored and
coming events will pave the way for the restoration of PML-N government. Khan
says: Nawaz Sharif today reciprocated Gillani's gesture of visiting his
residence to offer reconciliation and announced that the PML-N is once again
willing to work together with the PPP.

Kamran Khan says: President Zardari will address a joint session of Parliament
on 28 March and "ministerial sources" have said that Zardari will make "concrete
announcements" aimed at taking steps for promoting "political reconciliation" in
the country.

Kamran Khan plays video report prepared by Geo News Correspondent Mubashir
Bukhari on problems that may arise in the formation of PML-N government in
Punjab. The report says if PML-N and PPP do not come together and once again
form a coalition government in Punjab, the PML-N has to rely on support of
Forward Bloc [formed by members after defecting from Pakistan Muslim
League-Qaide Azad, PML-Q], but the government's future will be uncertain because
the Constitution's anti-defection clause may be applied to the members of
Forward Bloc. The report adds: Forward Bloc leaders, however, are claiming that
the anti-defection clause could not be applied in the election of chief
minister.

Kamran Khan establishes video link with Chaudhary Pervez Elahi, PML-Q president
in Punjab and former Punjab chief minister, and asks him about the PML-Q's stand
on forming a government in Punjab. Elahi says: if there is no political
stability in Punjab, it will have an impact on the overall situation in country
and that is why PML-Q Chief Shujaat Hussain suggested that all three parties,
PPP, PML-N and PML-Q, jointly form a government. When asked whether Prime
Minister Gillani had agreed with the formula, Elahi says Gillani had stated that
he will respond after talking with his party and party chairman [Zardari], but
he later visited Raiwind and the situation has now changed. When Khan points out
that it looks from the statements made after Gillani's visit to Raiwind that
PML-N-PPP coalition government could be formed in Punjab, Elahi says: if PML-N
forms Punjab government with PPP cooperation, it will have to rejoin the federal
coalition government because otherwise doubts will remain about the stability of
both provincial and federal governments. On the Forward Bloc issue, Elahi says
the PML-Q is giving a chance to Forward Bloc members to come back to the party
fold, but if they do not, legal notice will be served to them. Elahi says: if
PML-Q formula of a joint government of all three parties is not agreed upon,
PML-Q will work as opposition party in the Punjab assembly.

Segment IV

Kamran Khan says: President Zardari in an interview to Sky News television
stated that it will be wrong to believe that his "political position has been
badly affected" after the success of Long March. Khan adds: Zardari was replying
to the articles and comments in the western media which claimed that Zardari's
position has been badly affected.

Khan says: UK's prominent paper The Economist in an article has said that
"Sharif won the war" and described Zardari as a "//hatless autocrat//." Khan
adds: The Economist says: "//the political fallout [of Long march] is also worth
celebrating//." Continuing, Khan says: similar comments and analysis are being
continuously published in other British and American papers. Khan adds: Times of
London in a recent article says Prime Minister Gillani is gaining ground and
political power and stature of Nawaz Sharif have also been enhanced. Khan says:
Washington Post editorial says western forces and Washington should play a
direct role to save Pakistan and prevent present political drift in Pakistan.
Khan adds: Washington Post article says that Zardari had to ""//surrender//" and
"//capitulate//" due to political pressure. Continuing, Khan says: Wall Street
Journal's article says Sharif is strengthening his position through people's
support and the same article points out weakening political position of Zardari.

Segment V

Kamran Khan says although there has been slight improvement in the situation in
Swat after the establishment of Shari'ah [Islamic law] courts, but citizens
continue to feel "restless."

Kamran Khan plays a video report prepared by Geo News Correspondent Bahroz Khan
on the situation in Swat. The report says Qazi [Muslim judges] courts have
started functioning in Malakand division and "hundreds" of petitions have been
filed in these courts so far on which immediate hearings are being arranged. The
report says: all other courts have been made dysfunctional as a result of which
"dozens of judges and magistrates are facing retirement" and "hundreds of
lawyers are in dilemma." The report adds: establishment of Shari'ah courts have
also not reduced "uncertainty" and people are concerned that President Zardari
has yet not signed the Nizam-e Adl [Islamic justice system] regulation as a
result of which many questions are being raised on the legal status of Shari'ah
courts. Continuing, the report says: according to the spirit of agreement
between the provincial government and Sufi Muhammad [chief of Tehrik-e Nifaz-e
Shari'ah Muhammadi], cadres of Maulana Fazlullah [militant leader and son-in-law
of Sufi Muhammad] should not carry out armed patrolling and interfere in
government's affairs, but the situation is contrary to it as armed militants are
not only patrolling the areas, but also control most of districts.

Kamran Khan establishes telephonic link in Peshawar with Bahroz Khan and asks
him about the situation in North Waziristan and South Waziristan. Bahroz Khan
says: the government's writ hardly exists in North Waziristan and South
Waziristan and Baitullah Mehsud has "total control" of Mehsud belt and Mauvi
Nazir controls Wazir belt in South Waziristan and Hafiz Gul Bahadur has the
"total control" in North Waziristan. When Kamran Khan says that but now there
are no more clashes between the militants and security forces in both
Waziristan, Bahroz Khan says this is because security forces have withdrawn from
the check posts under the agreements with the militants and the Army's presence
is not visible there.

Kamran Khan says: Meanwhile, President Obama has talked about "//exit
strategy//" in Afghanistan. Khan adds: Obama in a television interview said that
military strategy alone would not work in Afghanistan and a there is need of
comprehensive strategy and there should also be a exit strategy.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1700gmt 23 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 March 24, 2009

New anti-terror strategy warns of chemical attack threat

LENGTH: 508 words



HIGHLIGHT: Anti-terror document says changing technology makes prospect of
chemical or biological attack more realistic


Changing technology means that the prospect of chemical or biological terrorist
attack in Britain is now more realistic, says the government's updated
counter-­terrorism strategy published today.

It also discloses that serious ­preparations are under way in the UK to protect
against the use of roadside bombs and other "novel homemade explosives" imported
from Iraq and Afghanistan.

The document confirms that the government intends to challenge radical views
that "reject and undermine our shared values and jeopardise community cohesion"
and that will be reflected in the groups and projects it supports through the
£70m-a-year Preventing Violent Extremism programme.

The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, said the government had no intention of
outlawing these views or criminalising those who hold them, but she added: "We
will not hear these views in silence. We should all stand up for our shared
values and not concede the floor to those who dismiss them."

The document defines those who reject "shared values" as scorning the
institutions and values of parliamentary democracy, dismissing the rule of law,
and promoting intolerance and discrimination on the basis of race, faith,
ethnicity, gender or sexuality. Smith said those who publicly voiced homophobic
views would also be open to challenge.

The home secretary said the measures will ensure that local authorities
understand the risk to community cohesion posed by some organisations.

The clarification of the programme follows a decision by Communities Secretary,
Hazel Blears, to sever ties with the Muslim Council of Britain after she alleged
one leading member signed an international declaration supporting Hamas and
"called for direct support for acts of violence in the Middle East and beyond."

The MCB has refused to distance itself from Dr Daub Abdullah, condemned the
killing of soldiers anywhere in the world, and said it will not be dictated to
by Blears.

The home secretary also voiced serious concerns about the impact in Britain of
the deteriorating situation in Pakistan where al-Qaida and groups affiliated to
the Taliban are rapidly gaining influence in the federally administered tribal
areas.

The strategy notes that in some cases terror cells in the UK have had training
and direction from Pakistan-based groups and in many of the important attempted
operations conspirators have travelled to and from Pakistan as part of the
preparations. Home Office counter-terrorism officials are to travel to the
capital, Islamabad, next week to discuss further measures.

Senior Whitehall officials say the warning about the increased likelihood of a
chemical or biological attack rests on changing technology and increased theft
and smuggling of such materials which makes the aspirations of contemporary
terrorist groups "more realistic than they have been in the past".

The home office said they were also "working to ensure" that the lessons learned
in Iraq about dealing with roadside bombs, and other improvised explosive
devices were being reflected in domestic counter-terrorism work.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2009  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                             March 24, 2009 Tuesday

Terror attack 'highly likely'

LENGTH: 438  words


The Home Secretary has warned that a terrorist attack on the UK is "highly
likely and could happen, without warning, at any time".

Unveiling the Government's anti-terror strategy, Contest 2, Jacqui Smith also
said that shopping centre and store managers will be among 60,000 workers
trained to help deal with terrorist threats.

Ms Smith said the "widest range" of people needed to be enlisted.

She said terrorism can not simply be tackled from Whitehall and people needed to
be "vigilant about the threat of an attack" and to prepare for "what to do" in
the event of an atrocity.

"I don't think tackling terrorism is something we can solely depend on the
police and our security and intelligence agencies to do - brilliant though they
are," she said. "I think we need to enlist the widest range of people to do
that."

She identified "shopping centre managers, store managers, people who were
responsible for the security in those areas" as being key in the battle against
terror.

"We need to keep thinking about the way the threat is developing and we need to
keep evolving the way which we are dealing with that."

Ms Smith said the threat of an attack was "severe" and mainly came from the
al-Qaeda leadership and their immediate "associates".

Ms Smith told MPs that over a dozen attempted terrorist plots have been
disrupted and the published strategy was "comprehensive and wide ranging".

She said its primary aim was to "reassure the public that we are doing all in
our power to protect this country through our relentless pursuit of terrorists
and our determination to prevent violent extremism".

Shadow home secretary Chris Grayling said that all sides of the House shared the
same goal of defeating terrorism and Conservatives would be "constructive
critics" of the Government's plans.

Ms Smith said the threat of an attack, ahead of the G20 summit of world leaders
in London next month, had been set at "severe".

"The overall threat assessment, which is set independently, about the likelihood
of an attack, G20 aside, is set at severe, which means a threat is highly
likely," she said. "It could happen without warning.

Contest 2 has been billed as the most comprehensive approach to tackling the
threat by any government in the world.

Experts spent a year preparing the document to take into account lessons learnt
from recent terror outrages, such as the attacks on hotels in Mumbai last year.

By 2011, Britain will be spending £3.5 billion a year on counter-terrorism. The
number of police deployed on counter-terror work has risen since 2003 from 1,700
to 3,000, while the security service MI5 has doubled in size over the same
period.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2009 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       March 24, 2009 Tuesday 3:58 PM BST

UK TERROR ATTACK 'HIGHLY LIKELY', SAYS SMITH

BYLINE: Trevor Mason and Craig Woodhouse, Press Association Political Staff

SECTION: PARLIAMENTARY NEWS

LENGTH: 2254 words


Home Secretary Jacqui Smith warned today that a terrorist attack on the UK was
``highly likely and could happen, without warning, at any time''.

Unveiling the Government's counter terror strategy, Ms Smith said the threat was
``severe'' and mainly came from the al Qaida leadership and their immediate
``associates''.

She told MPs that over a dozen attempted terrorist plots had been disrupted and
the strategy published today was ``comprehensive and wide ranging''.

Its primary aim was to ``reassure the public that we are doing all in our power
to protect this country through our relentless pursuit of terrorists and our
determination to prevent violent extremism''.

Shadow home secretary Chris Grayling said that all sides of the House shared the
same goal of defeating terrorism and Conservatives would be ``constructive
critics'' of the Government's plans.

In a statement on the report - known as Contest Two, Ms Smith said the greatest
security threat came from ``al Qaida and related groups and individuals'' mainly
on the Pakistan/Afghanistan border.

She said: ``We know that the threat is severe. We know that an attack is highly
likely and could happen, without warning, at any time.

``And we know that this new form of terrorism is different in scale and nature
from the terrorist threats we have had to deal with in recent decades.''

Thanks to the hard work and dedication of thousands of people, the UK had had
considerable success in stopping terrorist attacks but the threat remained and
was always evolving.

Currently £2.5 billion was spent on countering terrorism. But by 2011 this will
rise to £3.5 billion.

The ``Contest strategy'' centred on pursuing terrorist suspects, preventing
people from supporting violent extremism, protecting the country from attack and
preparing to limit the impact of any attack.

Ms Smith said there was dedicated cross-government work on the specific threat
posed by terrorist use of chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear weapons
and explosives.

The challenge was to strike the right balance between measures to protect
security and the right to life, with the impact on ``other rights we hold
dear''.

Mr Grayling said the Home Secretary should be ``ashamed'' of herself for
allowing the media to see the documents long before they were released to MPs,
which was ``completely unacceptable''.

Paying tribute to the work of the police and the security services, he said:
``We all share the same goal. We want to do everything we can to combat terror
and we will be constructive critics of what the Government does as a result.''

Mr Grayling pledged to ``support the Government when it does the right thing to
combat terrorism'' and said there was much in the new document to welcome.

But he said the new strategy was ``not perfect'' and the Tories would continue
to push for change in areas where they believed it was flawed.

He added: ``We will do so, however, out of a desire that I believe is shared
right across this House: to do everything we possibly can to keep the terrorist
threat at bay.''

Mr Grayling said he backed training thousands of people working in public places
in anti-terror measures but said they ``have to do the job properly''.

He told MPs that the training programme did not appear to be as comprehensive as
trailed by the Prime Minister and ``amounts to no more than a voluntary
three-hour seminar - and that includes the coffee break''.

``I do not see how we can train those people properly in dealing with terrorism
in less than half the time allocated to a cycling proficiency course,'' he
added.

Mr Grayling called on the Government to ensure that London's police officers had
access to protective equipment against chemical, biological, radioactive and
nuclear attack ahead of the G20 meeting next month.

And he also said the Government should stop funding groups which propagate
extremism and focus on those organisations which sought to break down community
divides.

``We have to deal with extremism in all its guises,'' he said.

``People have the right to campaign for radical change in our society - we
should not seek to ban them from doing so.

``But the state has the right to protect its people and institutions and the
principles of a democratic society and we should not be providing support to
those who wish to undermine that society.''

Ms Smith said the document had been available to MPs since 10am and had not been
given to the media in advance.

She said there was much to learn from the terror attacks in Mumbai and Lahore
and promised that the UK would do so.

The Home Secretary defended the scheme to give civilians anti-terror training,
telling MPs that more than 30,000 people had benefited from more than 700
programmes carried out so far.

Security guards were being given separate training as part of an operation which
``aims to provide ... training and preparation for those who are in the places
where we shop, where we work, where we live in order to help to protect us''.

Ms Smith also said all police officers had basic training and information about
chemical, biological, radioactive and nuclear attacks, with 8,000 given specific
training and all having access to protective equipment.

And she said the Government had been funding groups to help break down community
divides but conceded: ``I agree with you that our work to counter violent
extremism and to support shared values needs to go further than that''

For the Liberal Democrats, Chris Huhne said terrorism remained a ``grave
threat'' but the UK had faced it before in the form of republican Irish
terrorism and had survived it.

``I have no doubt that we will do so again,'' he added.

But Mr Huhne raised concerns about the methods being used to combat terrorism,
including holding suspects without charge for up to 28 days.

People going about their daily lives such as trainspotters and night fishermen
had also been arrested by ``overzealous'' police officers citing security
issues, he said.

``Though the threat is severe, our response must always be measured and
proportionate,'' Mr Huhne told MPs.

``We must never become what we are fighting, for that way lies the loss of the
moral high ground and the esteem of the very people we need to provide
intelligence and witnesses.''

He went on: ``Our concern about this strategy is that it continues to sacrifice
hard-won liberties in the name of security, and to trespass at the edge of what
is acceptable to many British people.''

Mr Huhne called for progress on using intercept evidence in courts and urged the
Home Secretary to review 28-day detention without charge and reform the
controversial control orders regime.

Ms Smith said many other European countries had longer periods of pre-charge
detention than the UK.

``I agree with you that I believe our response should be measured and
proportionate,'' the Home Secretary said.

``I disagree with you in your assessment that it isn't.''

She went on: ``I have been completely clear in this strategy that our approach
to countering terrorism must be grounded in basic human rights, and that is at
the heart of the approach that we are taking.''

Keith Vaz, Labour chair of the Commons Home Affairs Select Committee, said it
was important to learn from the attacks in Mumbai but said the levels of
security there did ``not bear comparison'' with those in London.

``It is vitally important that we continue to work with the private sector to
ensure that they put in place the necessary security arrangements in our major
hotels and our major tourist destinations,'' Mr Vaz said.

``These are places that are going to be targeted by terrorists and we must
prepare for that.''

Ms Smith said measures were in place but added: ``What terrorists want us to do
is to garner ourselves with obvious and difficult and cumbersome forms of
security that prevent us from going about our daily lives.

``Our task is to make sure that everybody is able to live their daily lives
freely but also as securely as possible.''

Labour former minister Ian McCartney (Makerfield) welcomed the statement but
urged Ms Smith to look again at compensation to British tourists injured in
terror attacks abroad.

Some 200 UK citizens had been killed abroad in the last ten years, he said.

``They are simply men, woman and children in the wrong place at the wrong time
and because it's not in the UK, they are treated differently.

``This is indefensible.''

Ms Smith said he was right to be ``impassioned'' about the safety of people
overseas.

``We already provide considerable assistance but I will certainly reflect on the
points that you've made ... and I will talk to colleagues about that.''

Shadow defence minister Julian Lewis, speaking from the back benches, urged the
Government to make sure university staff reported any ``incipient criminal
activity'' on campus.

Ms Smith said there was now a recognition that while academic freedom was
``absolutely fundamentally part of the university life'', so was the protection
of young people from potential radicalisation.

Labour former home secretary David Blunkett called for the Government to include
``cyber activities'' in their strategy.

``There is a very real danger that terrorists could launch such an attack in a
devastating fashion that would not just simply undermine our already fragile
economy but also put people at substantial risk.''

Ms Smith said cyber security cut across all elements of the strategy.

The Cabinet Office was leading a cross-departmental project on the issue, she
said.

Tory Patrick Mercer (Newark) said: ``One of the so-called preachers of hate is
currently in a high security prison awaiting deportation as a danger to the
state.

``When he was on ... bail, he was forbidden to use the internet. Yet as we
speak, he is broadcasting on the internet his litany of hate.

``That's from inside a high security prison - how can that happen?''

Ms Smith said she would raise the matter with Justice Secretary Jack Straw.

Labour former home secretary John Reid welcomed the training programmes in
garnering ``resilience'' among the British people.

He said: ``If we are truly to be able to face, respond to and - God forbid that
we should ever have the need - recover from a terrorist attack, then it will not
ultimately lie, that resilience, in the agencies of the state, but in the
resolve, spirit and understanding and support for our aims of the ordinary
people of this country.''

Ms Smith agreed and said people should not ``depend on'' the police,
intelligence agencies and armed forces to tackle terrorism.

``Each of us has a role,'' she said.

Tory former shadow home secretary David Davis (Haltemprice and Howden) said the
Prevent strand of the strategy had been a ``failure'' as there had been a 25%
year-on-year increase in the number of young Muslims becoming radicalised.

The ``authoritarian measures'' taken by the Government had made this worse, he
said.

Ms Smith said she did not recognise the percentage change and refused to comment
further because Mr Davis ``did not choose to listen''.

Liberal Democrat Dr Evan Harris (Oxford West and Abingdon) said community
cohesion was about building relationships between people of different
backgrounds.

``Given that, do you recognise that there might be potential for inconsistency
in allowing schools through religious discrimination to segregate further
communities, meaning that white-only schools can stay white-only by refusing
admission to Muslims?''

Ms Smith said: ``I've had experience of the admissions criteria for schools in
previous jobs and I absolutely don't recognise the ability of schools to be able
to operate the sorts of admissions criteria that you outlined.''

Labour's Andrew Dismore, chair of the joint committee on human rights, welcomed
the Home Secretary's opposition to the use of torture.

``We have to make sure that our agents overseas, operating in one or two dubious
countries like Pakistan, are properly trained and under proper instructions to
make sure they do nothing that can in any way, shape or form, be seen to be
complicit in the use of torture,'' he said.

Ms Smith told him: ``Yes, I agree, which is precisely why the Prime Minister
made clear last week that we will publish, after review by the intelligence and
security committee, the guidelines under which intelligence officers and armed
forces question and deal with detainees overseas...''

In Lords exchanges on the statement, security minister Lord West of Spithead
highlighted the efforts the Government was making to avoid young Muslims
becoming extremists.

He told peers: ``We absolutely have to engage with these people (extremists) and
for the first time ever we have started really identifying what causes someone
to become a violent extremist, what causes radicalisation.

``We don't know all the answers yet but I can tell you 18 months ago we didn't
have a clue. We have done a huge amount of work there.''

He also said that 18 months ago the Government ``had maybe not done as much as
we should have done'' on preparing for chemical, biological, radiological and
nuclear (CBRN) attacks, but he said ``we have done a great deal since''.

For Liberal Democrats, Baroness Miller of Chilthorne Domer raised questions
about the effectiveness of some counter-terrorism exercises.

She said: ``We have not even had a drill here in Parliament. Last time there was
an incident, Members were both locked out and locked in. That is inevitable, but
many people did not know what was going on.''

Lord West said he liked the idea of an ``exercise in Parliament''. He told
peers: ``It would be quite an amusing day or half-day, I think.''

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    RTE News

                       March 24, 2009 Tuesday 5:22 PM GMT

UK terrorist attack threat 'more realistic'

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 186 words



HIGHLIGHT: The British govt has warned that the threat of a terrorist attack on
the UK involving chemical or nuclear weapons is now more realistic.


The British government has warned that the threat of a terrorist attack on the
UK involving chemical or nuclear weapons is now more realistic.

British Home Secretary Jacqui Smith was speaking as she published a new
counter-terrorism strategy outlining the causes and possible future direction of
the terrorist threat against Britain.

Today's document, called Contest Two, is the first unclassified document to
publish a detailed assessment of the threat against Britain.

It warns of the likelihood of an attack using a so-called dirty bomb, saying
that terrorist organisations now aspire to using chemical, biological or
radiological weapons.

Three-quarters of the most serious terrorist plots now being investigated in
Britain have been linked to Pakistan, although today's document suggests that
al-Qaeda in its current form is likely to fragment into smaller groups motivated
by a broadly similar ideology.

One senior Home Office source said today that the size of Britain's secret
service had doubled in the past three years and that there were now over 3,000
police officers working exclusively on counter-terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


     Copyright 2009 RTE Commercial Enterprises Ltd / Radio Telefís Éireann
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Bullring on target list for potential terror attack

BYLINE: JONATHAN WALKER Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 465 words


Police and the Home Office have identified 26 possible terror targets in
Birmingham and the West Midlands.

The Bullring shopping centre was named as a potential target, in a new strategy
for tackling international terrorism published by Jacqui Smith, the Home
Secretary.

It warned that Birmingham was the first British city targeted by al-Qaida, after
jobless waiter Moinul Abedin planned to bomb the city centre.

Abedin, aged 27, was arrested in November2000and jailed for20years after being
convicted of doing an act with intent to cause an explosion. Birmingham Crown
Court heard he had turned his Sparkbrook terraced house into a bombmaking
factory.

At the time, police and security officers said they had not been certain of his
intended target. But the new Home Office guidance states that he had planned to
attack the city centre.

There are now 400 dedicated police officers working in the West Midlands
Counter-Terrorism Unit, as well as 23 community officers working to identify
possible terror threats in partnership with local residents.

Officers from the National Counter Terrorism Security Office, a specialist
police department, have run training exercises with 356 Birmingham retailers on
what to do if there is a terrorist attack.

They have also provided security advice "to 26 high-risk sites (including, for
example, the Bullring shopping centre)," the report says. West Midlands Police
would not identify the other 25 sites last night.

The report said: "By late 2000, the UK had itself becomea target: the policeand
Security Service disruptedanattempt to conduct an attack in Birmingham city
centre (well before the attacks in the US on September 11 2001, the subsequent
conflict in Afghanistan, and the 2003 Iraq war)."

The report is the first unclassified document to contain a detailed account of
UK officials' assessment of the underlying causes of the terrorist threat and
its likely future direction.

It warns that an attack on Britain involving chemical or nuclear weapons is now
"more realistic" than before.

Al Qaida is "likely to fragment" under international pressure, and might not
survive in its current form, the document states.

But this could lead to the creation of smaller "self-starting" organisations
which would be harder for security services to identify and monitor.

The Government paper highlights the work of police and the Home Office in the
West Midlands as an example of the counter-terrorism strategy, known as CONTEST,
across the UK.

Ms Smith called for the use of "civil challenge" in the broader community as
well as from the Government to challenge those who hold extremist viewpoints.

She cited the example of the Muslim activists who recently protested at a
homecoming parade in Luton for British forces returning from Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Home Secretary Jacqui Smith with Met Chief Sir Paul Stephenson in
Oxford Street, London, ahead of the publication of the Contest Two report
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

Risk of terrorist nuclear attack 'has increased';
Theft of materials and internet helping extremists

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham Security Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 591  words


BRITAIN faces an increased threat of a terrorist attack involving a chemical,
biological or nuclear bomb, a major new government report said yesterday.

An increase in the theft and smuggling of dangerous substances meant that
terrorists were more likely to be able to use weapons such as a "dirty bomb'',
according to the report.

The warning was contained in the Government's counter-terrorism strategy
document, Contest 2, the most significant redrafting of the fight against
violent extremists for six years.

The report said: "Contemporary terrorist organisations aspire to use chemical,
biological, radiological and even nuclear weapons.

"Changing technology and the theft and smuggling of chemical, biological,
radiological, nuclear and explosive materials make this aspiration more
realistic than it may have been in the recent past.''

Terrorists could use radioactive substances in a "dirty bomb'', in which the
material is dispersed using conventional explosives.

Publishing the report, Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary, said: "Failed states,
conflict and technology contribute to our concern about the threat, including
what we know about what terrorists want to do and are planning to do.''

The report said the risk of a chemical, biological or nuclear attack had been
heightened by the pace of technological change and the spread of specialised
information and knowledge via the internet.

Its authors pointed to evidence that al-Qaeda had tried to recruit disaffected
nuclear scientists in Pakistan and Iraq. The problem had been made worse by the
smuggling of nuclear material from the former Soviet Union, where more than
1,300 incidents had been reported since 1993.

Gaps had also been identified in the "regulatory regime'' at the 2,000 sites
authorised to store hazardous and radioactive substances in Britain.

The report said that the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq had allowed terrorists to
develop more sophisticated types of improvised bombs and said al-Qaeda in Iraq
had deployed chemical bombs containing chlorine gas cylinders.

The Government said it would be training 10,000 police officers to deal with the
threat of a chemical, biological or nuclear attack by 2010.

The report also set out the extent of the wider terror threat facing Britain. It
said al-Qaeda had lost many experienced individuals, was short of money and was
"likely to fragment''.

But autonomous groups were likely to survive, operating out of fragile or
failing states as part of al-Qaeda's "global movement''.

"The ideology associated with al-Qaeda will outlive changes to its structure,''
the report said, adding: "Terrorist organisations will have access to new
technology and may become capable of conducting more lethal operations.''

The current threat level remained at "severe'' - only one step from the highest
level - and the report said: "We know that some British citizens still travel
abroad to be trained in how to commit terrorist attacks, that terrorists want to
strike against the UK again and that they will keep on trying.''

In order to counter the threat, the Government plans to spend  pounds 3.5
billion a year on counter-terrorism by 2011, which goes beyond police and the
security services to the 60,000 "store, pub and club managers who all work in
crowded places that might be targeted by terrorists''.

"We have provided security advice to sport venues and shopping centres and
expanded protective programmes for air, sea and rail travel to provide
proportionate, sustainable and efficient security for passengers and staff,''
the report said.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

DIRTY BOMB ATTACK IS CLOSER THAN EVER;
Nuke-germ terror threats mount

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 373 words


TERRORISTS are closer than ever to launching a dirty bomb attack, the Government
has warned.

It is now "likely" and could happen at any time, ministers said, while the
chances of chemical or biological weapons being used are "more realistic" than
ever.

A top-level report also claimed al-Qaida could splinter into several factions as
ever more deadly groups spring up to follow Osama bin Laden's lead.

The document, prepared for Home Secretary Jacqui Smith, warned: "Contemporary
terrorist organisations aspire to use chemical, biological, radiological and
even nuclear weapons.

It added: "Changing technology and the theft and smuggling of chemical,
biological, radiological and nuclear and explosive materials make this
aspiration more realistic than it may have been in the recent past." It also
said terrorists have created new explosives and that groups from around the
world readily share new deadly forms of technology.

Ms Smith was asked whether there was a greater threat of a chemical, biological
or nuclear attack than five years ago.

She said: "There is the potential, given the international situation, what we
believe to be the aspirations of some international terrorists, that it could
be."

The intelligence report said al-Qaida itself was "likely to fragment" under
international pressure, and might not survive in its current form.

But its ideas would outlive changes to its structure, leading to an even greater
threat, it warned.

The report added: "Terrorist organisations will have access to new technology
and may become capable of conducting more lethal operations." Ms Smith, 46, said
the threat of attack was "severe" ahead of next month's G20 summit of world
leaders in London.

"A threat is highly likely, " she said.

By 2011, Britain will be spending GBP 3.5billion a year on counterterrorism. The
number of police deployed on counter-terror work had risen since 2003 from 1,700
to 3,000, while the security service MI5 had doubled in size over the same
period.

Meanwhile Ms Smith said the public should "challenge" people who use freedom of
speech laws as a cover for causing moral outrage.

Using protesters who insulted Brit war heroes in Luton, Beds, as an example, she
called on the public to tell them they "are wrong".

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Home Secretary Jacqui Smith warns of the new dangers facing
Britain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

Parade to thank 'blue light' staff;
Emergency services who played a vital role during the city's terror attack are
being thanked with a one-off parade through Exeter.

LENGTH: 127 words


"Blue light" services will join the special parade which has been organised in
response to a vote of thanks by the city council.

The event is the first of its kind in the city and will include members of Devon
and Cornwall police, Devon and Somerset Fire and Rescue Service, and the South
Western Ambulance Service Trust.

Exeter's Lord Mayor, Councillor Paul Smith, said: "Terrorism in Exeter was a
salutary reminder of how much we owe the emergency services on a daily basis
here in Exeter and beyond.

"I hope this event serves as a renewal of our civic partnership with the
ambulance and fire services and a reaffirmation of our strong partnership with
the police."

The parade is due to start at Exeter bus station and proceed through the city
from 11am on Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

Terrorism threat is still 'very real';
Devon and Cornwall police's most senior police officer said he is "certain" the
country will experience another terror attack.

LENGTH: 213 words


Stephen Otter, Chief Constable of Devon and Cornwall Constabulary, added that he
does not believe the force could have prevented the terror attack on Exeter.

Speaking about the Government's anti-terrorism campaign, he said it was
"extremely difficult" to know what is in people's minds in order to stop an
attack happening.

"The most difficult part about terrorism is preventing attacks," he said.

"Trying to prevent terrorism emerging is extremely difficult. We saw that with
the Reilly case.

"It would have been hugely difficult to prevent that. People live their own
lives and we don't know what is in their minds.

"I don't think we could have seen the attack on Exeter coming.

"What we have learnt is that there is a process, which we were unaware of, that
leads to someone doing something like this.

"That is helpful for the whole country."

Mr Otter said the threat of terrorism was still "very real".

"We are certain that something like this unfortunate incident will happen again
somewhere," he said.

He added: "I was really proud of our officers, I was also proud of being part of
a community that took that ground so quickly.

"There was no sense of terror reigning across Exeter, people were going back to
that restaurant within a month, that is real testament to the people here."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

Store manager who lost his job emerges hero of terror attack;
A store manager who recently lost his job has emerged an unsung hero of a
would-be bomber's attempted terrorist attack in the city.

LENGTH: 816 words


Kevin Smith, who managed   the former Zavvi store in Princesshay, was praised by
the Government as it set  out its new national security strategy on how to
tackle extremists in the future.

And the way in which the attempted bombing of the Giraffe restaurant was handled
overall has played a vital role in shaping the updated counter-terrorism
strategy.

Nicky Reilly,  23, was jailed for life in January at the Old Bailey - with an
order that he serve a minimum of 18 years - for his attempt to bomb  the Giraffe
restaurant last year in what has been described as an al-Qaeda-inspired attack
in a new terrorism guide.

The Muslim convert from Plymouth had pleaded guilty to the attack in which he
accidentally set off a homemade nail bomb in a toilet cubicle as he prepared to
blow up dozens of innocent people.

Hundreds of shoppers were immediately evacuated from the shopping centre as part
of a coordinated emergency services effort.

Mr Smith  had been taught to deal with such an incident as part of a national
security scheme.

In a Government 13-page pamphlet, released as a guide to the forthcoming
176-page counter-terror strategy - known as Contest Two - officials state that
the way Mr Smith helped with the evacuation of the shopping centre was guided by
his specialist training.

It said: "Under Project Argus, a multimedia simulation of a terrorist attack, he
had already received training in how to deal with such an emergency."

Mr Smith, who now works for  Bow Aquatic, a new reptile and fish centre in
Alphington, said: "The Argus training was absolutely invaluable. The first thing
we thought of was getting people away from flying debris like glass.

"It does make you think about important issues like safe routes out of a
building."

Princesshay bosses have welcomed the praise for Mr Smith and for the way the
emergency was handled overall.

Wayne Pearce, Princesshay Centre director, said: "The safety of our employees
and customers is always a priority and we therefore have robust security
measures in place which include a programme of training for our management
teams. Unfortunately, we are unable to talk about security in any detail."

The police also welcomed the acknowledgement from the Government for the way the
Princesshay bombing was handled.

And Exeter commander  Supt John Vellacott  said anti-terrorism  training for
city centre managers was essential.

"It's very important to raise awareness generally and for key  people in the
community - like shopping centre managers - to  have an idea of what to do in
these sorts of circumstances," he told  the Echo.

"I would offer praise to any shop manager who is responsible  enough to have
engaged in anti-terrorism training.

"Undoubtedly, the Government's publication will prove helpful.

"The police can't be everywhere at once. If the public in general  are aware of
some of the issues of what to look out for, that will be  helpful."

Supt Vellacott supported the view of Stephen Otter, the force's chief constable,
that police could not have prevented the terrorism  attack on the city.

"People don't necessarily go and broadcast what they are going  to do," he said.
"But we need to be vigilant and we need to know what to look out  for."

Exeter City Council is a partner in the anti-terrorism training  sessions
provided to city centre managers.

Peter Brown, Exeter's emergency  planning officer, said: "This  training is
provided to give business people an insight into what  could happen in an
emergency, and help them plan what they  should do.

"The value of it can be seen when it's used in a real situation.

"Managers can feel prepared and confident that they are taking the  best steps."

As part of the new Government measures, some 60,000 people, from shopping centre
security guards through to pub landlords and hotel workers, who all work in
crowded places that might be targeted, are being trained to respond to the
threat of terrorism.

The   counter-terror strategy   is the first unclassified document to contain a
detailed account of UK officials' assessment of the underlying causes of the
terrorist threat and its likely future direction.

It contains a stark warning about the likelihood of an attack involving a "dirty
bomb".

On the current threat to the UK, it classes the Exeter attack as   al-Qaeda
inspired.

The report states:  "In the UK, groups and individuals committed to violent
extremism have been inspired by al-Qaeda's ideology, but have no connection to
it.

"This wider movement includes individuals who have little or no direct contact
with any existing terrorist groups, but who have set out to undertake attacks
largely on their own, most recently in Exeter."

The overall strategy is divided into four strands which cover preventing
radicalisation of potential terror recruits; disrupting terror operations;
reducing the vulnerability of the UK; and ensuring the country is ready for the
consequences of any attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

Parade to thank 'blue light' staff;
Emergency services who played a vital role during the city's terror attack are
being thanked with a one-off parade through Exeter.

LENGTH: 127 words


"Blue light" services will join the special parade which has been organised in
response to a vote of thanks by the city council.

The event is the first of its kind in the city and will include members of Devon
and Cornwall police, Devon and Somerset Fire and Rescue Service, and the South
Western Ambulance Service Trust.

Exeter's Lord Mayor, Councillor Paul Smith, said: "Terrorism in Exeter was a
salutary reminder of how much we owe the emergency services on a daily basis
here in Exeter and beyond.

"I hope this event serves as a renewal of our civic partnership with the
ambulance and fire services and a reaffirmation of our strong partnership with
the police."

The parade is due to start at Exeter bus station and proceed through the city
from 11am on Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

Terrorism threat is still 'very real';
Devon and Cornwall police's most senior police officer said he is "certain" the
country will experience another terror attack.

LENGTH: 213 words


Stephen Otter, Chief Constable of Devon and Cornwall Constabulary, added that he
does not believe the force could have prevented the terror attack on Exeter.

Speaking about the Government's anti-terrorism campaign, he said it was
"extremely difficult" to know what is in people's minds in order to stop an
attack happening.

"The most difficult part about terrorism is preventing attacks," he said.

"Trying to prevent terrorism emerging is extremely difficult. We saw that with
the Reilly case.

"It would have been hugely difficult to prevent that. People live their own
lives and we don't know what is in their minds.

"I don't think we could have seen the attack on Exeter coming.

"What we have learnt is that there is a process, which we were unaware of, that
leads to someone doing something like this.

"That is helpful for the whole country."

Mr Otter said the threat of terrorism was still "very real".

"We are certain that something like this unfortunate incident will happen again
somewhere," he said.

He added: "I was really proud of our officers, I was also proud of being part of
a community that took that ground so quickly.

"There was no sense of terror reigning across Exeter, people were going back to
that restaurant within a month, that is real testament to the people here."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

Store manager who lost his job emerges hero of terror attack;
A store manager who recently lost his job has emerged an unsung hero of a
would-be bomber's attempted terrorist attack in the city.

LENGTH: 816 words


Kevin Smith, who managed   the former Zavvi store in Princesshay, was praised by
the Government as it set  out its new national security strategy on how to
tackle extremists in the future.

And the way in which the attempted bombing of the Giraffe restaurant was handled
overall has played a vital role in shaping the updated counter-terrorism
strategy.

Nicky Reilly,  23, was jailed for life in January at the Old Bailey - with an
order that he serve a minimum of 18 years - for his attempt to bomb  the Giraffe
restaurant last year in what has been described as an al-Qaeda-inspired attack
in a new terrorism guide.

The Muslim convert from Plymouth had pleaded guilty to the attack in which he
accidentally set off a homemade nail bomb in a toilet cubicle as he prepared to
blow up dozens of innocent people.

Hundreds of shoppers were immediately evacuated from the shopping centre as part
of a coordinated emergency services effort.

Mr Smith  had been taught to deal with such an incident as part of a national
security scheme.

In a Government 13-page pamphlet, released as a guide to the forthcoming
176-page counter-terror strategy - known as Contest Two - officials state that
the way Mr Smith helped with the evacuation of the shopping centre was guided by
his specialist training.

It said: "Under Project Argus, a multimedia simulation of a terrorist attack, he
had already received training in how to deal with such an emergency."

Mr Smith, who now works for  Bow Aquatic, a new reptile and fish centre in
Alphington, said: "The Argus training was absolutely invaluable. The first thing
we thought of was getting people away from flying debris like glass.

"It does make you think about important issues like safe routes out of a
building."

Princesshay bosses have welcomed the praise for Mr Smith and for the way the
emergency was handled overall.

Wayne Pearce, Princesshay Centre director, said: "The safety of our employees
and customers is always a priority and we therefore have robust security
measures in place which include a programme of training for our management
teams. Unfortunately, we are unable to talk about security in any detail."

The police also welcomed the acknowledgement from the Government for the way the
Princesshay bombing was handled.

And Exeter commander  Supt John Vellacott  said anti-terrorism  training for
city centre managers was essential.

"It's very important to raise awareness generally and for key  people in the
community - like shopping centre managers - to  have an idea of what to do in
these sorts of circumstances," he told  the Echo.

"I would offer praise to any shop manager who is responsible  enough to have
engaged in anti-terrorism training.

"Undoubtedly, the Government's publication will prove helpful.

"The police can't be everywhere at once. If the public in general  are aware of
some of the issues of what to look out for, that will be  helpful."

Supt Vellacott supported the view of Stephen Otter, the force's chief constable,
that police could not have prevented the terrorism  attack on the city.

"People don't necessarily go and broadcast what they are going  to do," he said.
"But we need to be vigilant and we need to know what to look out  for."

Exeter City Council is a partner in the anti-terrorism training  sessions
provided to city centre managers.

Peter Brown, Exeter's emergency  planning officer, said: "This  training is
provided to give business people an insight into what  could happen in an
emergency, and help them plan what they  should do.

"The value of it can be seen when it's used in a real situation.

"Managers can feel prepared and confident that they are taking the  best steps."

As part of the new Government measures, some 60,000 people, from shopping centre
security guards through to pub landlords and hotel workers, who all work in
crowded places that might be targeted, are being trained to respond to the
threat of terrorism.

The   counter-terror strategy   is the first unclassified document to contain a
detailed account of UK officials' assessment of the underlying causes of the
terrorist threat and its likely future direction.

It contains a stark warning about the likelihood of an attack involving a "dirty
bomb".

On the current threat to the UK, it classes the Exeter attack as   al-Qaeda
inspired.

The report states:  "In the UK, groups and individuals committed to violent
extremism have been inspired by al-Qaeda's ideology, but have no connection to
it.

"This wider movement includes individuals who have little or no direct contact
with any existing terrorist groups, but who have set out to undertake attacks
largely on their own, most recently in Exeter."

The overall strategy is divided into four strands which cover preventing
radicalisation of potential terror recruits; disrupting terror operations;
reducing the vulnerability of the UK; and ensuring the country is ready for the
consequences of any attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

UK faces greater threat of 'dirty bomb';
Terrorist attack plans 'more realistic than in the past', Home Office warns

BYLINE: Ben Russell HOME AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 596 words


BRITAIN FACES an increased threat of a chemical, biological or nuclear attack,
ministers warned yesterday as they published the most detailed account to date
of the country's strategy for countering terrorism.

They warned that terrorist hopes of using a nuclear "dirty bomb" or other
devastating chemical or biological weapons were "more realistic than it may have
been in the recent past".

A 171-page strategy document drawn up by the Home Office, based on declassified
intelligence assessments, also warned that terrorists have developed new
explosives and might try to use improvised bombs on British soil. Home Office
ministers called for greater emphasis on working with the Muslim community to
challenge the ideas behind violent extremism and addressing grievances exploited
by radicals. Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary, said the Government should "argue
back" if groups try to undermine British values.

She said: "We have said that, where people may not have broken the law but
nevertheless act in a way that undermines our beliefs in this country in
democracy, human rights, tolerance and free speech, there should be a challenge
made to them, not through the law but through what we are calling a civil
challenge. We should argue back and make clear that these things are
unacceptable.

"I believe that the vast majority of communities from all different religious
and other backgrounds in this country support those shared values and also want
to make that challenge."

The report revealed that al-Qa'ida had established research centres working on
chemical, biological and radiological weapons in Afghanistan during the rule of
the Taliban and said "large numbers" of the group's members were trained in the
use of poisons.

Al-Qa'ida cells in Britain considered the use of radiological weapons in 2004,
the report said. In 2003 the group developed a device to produce hydrogen
cyanide gas, and in 2007 it used bombs with chlorine gas cylinders. The report
pointed to the availability to technical information about the deadly weapons on
the internet and said the spread of "dual-use" materials used in nuclear energy,
medicine and bio-technology increased the risk that they could be used by
terrorists. It also warned there had been "a significant increase in the
trafficking of material which can be used in radiological weapons as well as
potentially in nuclear weapons".

It said: "Contemporary terrorist organisations aspire to use chemical,
biological, radiological and even nuclear weapons. Changing technology and the
theft and smuggling of chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosive
materials make this aspiration more realistic than it may have been in the
recent past."

Asked yesterday whether the threat of a chemical, biological or radiological
attack was greater now than five years ago, Ms Smith said: "There is the
potential, given the international situation, what we believe to be the
aspirations of some international terrorists, that it could be. Failed states,
conflict, technology - both in terms of the ability to use materials and the
ability to learn about how materials are used - contribute to our concern about
that as a threat, including what we know about what terrorists may have
previously planned to do and may be planning to do."

Chris Grayling, the shadow Home Secretary, said: "We have argued strongly that
the Government is not doing enough to tackle the problem of individuals and
groups in the UK who are fostering the extremism that lies behind the terrorist
threat. That really does have to change."

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 26

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

DIRTY BOMB ALERT;
SMITH WARNS TERROR ATTACK 'HIGHLY LIKELY.. AT ANY TIME'

BYLINE: BY JASON BEATTIE DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 242 words


AN al-Qaeda dirty bomb atrocity could be imminent, Jacqui Smith said yesterday.

The Home Secretary's stark warning came as she outlined the Government's updated
anti-terror strategy, Contest Two.

The report said the risk of a chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear or
explosive attack on the UK has soared in the past five years.

Asked if there was a greater risk of a dirty bomb strike, Ms Smith replied:
"There is the potential, given the international situation, what we believe to
be the aspirations of terrorists, that it could be."

The report noted the threat to the UK came from four main sources: al-Qaeda;
groups affiliated with al-Qaeda; self-starting groups; and terrorist groups
following a similar ideology to al-Qaeda.

It said: "Terrorist organisations will have access to new technology and may
become capable of conducting more lethal operations."

But Ms Smith told MPs the main threat came from al-Qaeda supporters on the
Pakistan-Afghan border. She said: "We know the threat is severe. We know an
attack is highly likely and could happen, without warning, at any time."

Ms Smith added 60,000 people working in shopping centres, hotels and other
venues were being trained to deal with terrorist incidents.

But Shadow Home Secretary Chris Grayling said the training amounted "to no more
than a three-hour course - including the coffee break".

He added: "In context, that's less than half the time allocated to a cycling
proficiency course."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT Home Secretary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

Terror attack on UK highly likely, says Home Office

BYLINE: Tanya Thompson, Social Affairs Correspondent

LENGTH: 628 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE UK is facing an increased risk of a terrorist attack from 'dirty
bombs' such as nuclear weapons, the Home Office claimed yesterday.


It warned of the danger posed by terrorists who could get hold of chemical,
biological and nuclear weapons, as unstable states like Iraq have made it easier
to obtain the materials.

The assessment came as Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary, unveiled a  UK strategy
to tackle the terrorist threat. As part of the plans, managers of shopping
centres and stores will be among 60,000 workers trained to help deal with the
danger.

Ms Smith described the threat as "severe" - meaning an attack is "highly likely"
and "could happen without warning".

Launching the anti-terrorism strategy, she said the "widest range" of people
needed to be enlisted to tackle the threat.

She said: "I don't think tackling terrorism is something we can solely depend on
the police and security and intelligence agencies to do - brilliant though they
are. We can't tackle terrorism simply from Whitehall."

The Home Secretary identified "shopping centre managers, store managers, people
who were responsible for the security in those areas", as being key in the
battle against terrorism.

A spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers in Scotland said the
service was working closely with businesses, exploring practical measures to
counteract terrorism.

But last night  Jim Wyllie, the director of strategic studies at Aberdeen
University, dismissed the government's announcement as "window-dressing".

The security expert said: "They're not training ordinary people to tackle
terrorists. In purely practical terms, (they] can do no more than alert people
in shopping centres and hotels to the fact that someone might try to plant a
bomb."

Announcing Contest 2 - the  anti-terrorism crackdown - the Home Secretary said
that the threat from extremists was ever-present.

The report is the first unclassified document to contain a detailed account of
UK officials' assessment of the underlying causes of the terrorist threat and
its likely future direction.

It contains a stark warning about the likelihood of an attack involving a "dirty
bomb".

The report says: "Contemporary terrorist organisations aspire to use chemical,
biological, radiological and even nuclear weapons.

"Changing technology and the theft and smuggling of chemical, biological,
radiological and nuclear and explosive (CBRNE) materials make this aspiration
more realistic than it may have been in the recent past."

It also notes that terrorists have created new explosives and new ways of using
them, and that technology developed in conflict zones is quickly shared around
the world.

The Home Secretary said the greatest security threat came from "al-Qaeda and
related groups and individuals", mainly on the Pakistan/Afghanistan border."

Pakistan set to share names of terror suspects who live in UK

MORE than 20 Britons monitored by Pakistan's intelligence service and who are
believed to have spent time with  militant groups have returned to the UK, it
was reported yesterday.

The tracked men are said to have trained with extremists linked to al-Qaeda and
the Taleban and are thought to pose a potential threat to British security.

The dossier of names is expected to be handed over to British anti-terrorist
teams soon and is being seen as a "big leap forward" in the sharing of
intelligence between the  countries.

But it believed that questions could be asked about why the names were not
handed over before the suspects re-entered the UK.

The suspects are aged between 17 and 23 and have apparently created "sufficient
suspicion" with their activities for the ISI, Pakistan's intelligence service,
to believe they pose a "potential danger" to Britain.

At least four of them are thought to have been fighting in Afghanistan.

A spokeswoman for the Foreign Office said: "We do not comment on intelligence
matters such as this."

Martha Linden

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

Terror attack on UK highly likely, says Home Office

BYLINE: Tanya Thompson, Social Affairs Correspondent

LENGTH: 628 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE UK is facing an increased risk of a terrorist attack from 'dirty
bombs' such as nuclear weapons, the Home Office claimed yesterday.


It warned of the danger posed by terrorists who could get hold of chemical,
biological and nuclear weapons, as unstable states like Iraq have made it easier
to obtain the materials.

The assessment came as Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary, unveiled a  UK strategy
to tackle the terrorist threat. As part of the plans, managers of shopping
centres and stores will be among 60,000 workers trained to help deal with the
danger.

Ms Smith described the threat as "severe" - meaning an attack is "highly likely"
and "could happen without warning".

Launching the anti-terrorism strategy, she said the "widest range" of people
needed to be enlisted to tackle the threat.

She said: "I don't think tackling terrorism is something we can solely depend on
the police and security and intelligence agencies to do - brilliant though they
are. We can't tackle terrorism simply from Whitehall."

The Home Secretary identified "shopping centre managers, store managers, people
who were responsible for the security in those areas", as being key in the
battle against terrorism.

A spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers in Scotland said the
service was working closely with businesses, exploring practical measures to
counteract terrorism.

But last night  Jim Wyllie, the director of strategic studies at Aberdeen
University, dismissed the government's announcement as "window-dressing".

The security expert said: "They're not training ordinary people to tackle
terrorists. In purely practical terms, (they] can do no more than alert people
in shopping centres and hotels to the fact that someone might try to plant a
bomb."

Announcing Contest 2 - the  anti-terrorism crackdown - the Home Secretary said
that the threat from extremists was ever-present.

The report is the first unclassified document to contain a detailed account of
UK officials' assessment of the underlying causes of the terrorist threat and
its likely future direction.

It contains a stark warning about the likelihood of an attack involving a "dirty
bomb".

The report says: "Contemporary terrorist organisations aspire to use chemical,
biological, radiological and even nuclear weapons.

"Changing technology and the theft and smuggling of chemical, biological,
radiological and nuclear and explosive (CBRNE) materials make this aspiration
more realistic than it may have been in the recent past."

It also notes that terrorists have created new explosives and new ways of using
them, and that technology developed in conflict zones is quickly shared around
the world.

The Home Secretary said the greatest security threat came from "al-Qaeda and
related groups and individuals", mainly on the Pakistan/Afghanistan border."

Pakistan set to share names of terror suspects who live in UK

MORE than 20 Britons monitored by Pakistan's intelligence service and who are
believed to have spent time with  militant groups have returned to the UK, it
was reported yesterday.

The tracked men are said to have trained with extremists linked to al-Qaeda and
the Taleban and are thought to pose a potential threat to British security.

The dossier of names is expected to be handed over to British anti-terrorist
teams soon and is being seen as a "big leap forward" in the sharing of
intelligence between the  countries.

But it believed that questions could be asked about why the names were not
handed over before the suspects re-entered the UK.

The suspects are aged between 17 and 23 and have apparently created "sufficient
suspicion" with their activities for the ISI, Pakistan's intelligence service,
to believe they pose a "potential danger" to Britain.

At least four of them are thought to have been fighting in Afghanistan.

A spokeswoman for the Foreign Office said: "We do not comment on intelligence
matters such as this."

Martha Linden

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

'Be prepared for repeat of bomb terror attack';
Pubs, clubs and shopping centres must be prepared for a repeat of last year's
terror attack in Exeter, security experts warned last night.

BYLINE: Matt Chorley London Editor

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 545 words


As the Government published its latest counter-terrorism strategy, Westcountry
businesses were told to ensure they were ready to take tough decisions in the
event of any future incident.

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith warned yesterday  that a terrorist attack on the UK
was "highly likely and could happen, without warning, at any time".

Ms Smith said the threat was "severe" and mainly came from the al Qaida
leadership and their immediate "associates".

But the strategy also highlighted how some groups and individuals committed to
violent extremism were inspired by al Qaida's ideology but had no connection to
it.

In May last year, Nicky Reilly detonated a home-made bomb in the Giraffe
restaurant in Exeter's Princesshay shopping centre. He was jailed for life
earlier this year after pleading guilty to one count of attempted murder and one
count of preparation of a terrorist act.

It later emerged that he had been encouraged to carry out the attack by unknown
contacts on the Internet, though he acted alone.

The incident is singled out by the strategy as a sign of the changing nature of
the threat.

"The attempted terrorist attack in Exeter has shown we need to be prepared
throughout the country to deal with a terrorist incident and minimise its
effects," said a leaflet entitled Pursue, Prevent, Protect, Prepare.

Kevin Bown, a counter-terrorism security adviser who trains firms across Devon
and Cornwall, said: "The idea is to prepare pub, club and shop managers for such
an attack, to ensure they are taking responsibility and decisions for
themselves. If an incident happens, you will take better decisions if you are
prepared."

The updated counter-terror strategy - known as Contest Two - is the first
unclassified document to contain a detailed account of UK officials' assessment
of the underlying causes of the terrorist threat and its likely future
direction.

It contains a stark warning about the likelihood of an attack involving a "dirty
bomb".

Ms Smith was asked whether there was a greater threat of a chemical, biological,
radiological and nuclear and explosive (CBRNE)  attack than five years ago.

She replied: "There is the potential, given the international situation, what we
believe to be the aspirations of some international terrorists, that it could
be."

The report said the threat to the UK came primarily from four sources. These
were the al Qaida leadership, terrorist groups affiliated to al Qaida,
"self-starting" terror networks or lone individuals motivated by an al
Qaida-style ideology like Reilly, and terrorist groups with their own identity
and agenda following a broadly similar ideology to al Qaida.

The document said al Qaida itself was "likely to fragment" under international
pressure and might not survive in its current form.

But its ideology would outlive changes to its structure, possibly leading to
greater threat to the UK from smaller "self-starting" organisations.

Shadow home secretary Chris Grayling said: "No part of the UK is free from
threat and we know that terrorists want soft targets.

"We have argued strongly that the Government is not doing enough to tackle the
problem of individuals and groups in the UK who are fostering the hatred and
extremism that lies behind the terrorist threat. That really does have to
change."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

'Be prepared for repeat of bomb terror attack';
Pubs, clubs and shopping centres must be prepared for a repeat of last year's
terror attack in Exeter, security experts warned last night.

BYLINE: Matt Chorley London Editor

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 545  words


As the Government published its latest counter-terrorism strategy, Westcountry
businesses were told to ensure they were ready to take tough decisions in the
event of any future incident.

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith warned yesterday  that a terrorist attack on the UK
was "highly likely and could happen, without warning, at any time".

Ms Smith said the threat was "severe" and mainly came from the al Qaida
leadership and their immediate "associates".

But the strategy also highlighted how some groups and individuals committed to
violent extremism were inspired by al Qaida's ideology but had no connection to
it.

In May last year, Nicky Reilly detonated a home-made bomb in the Giraffe
restaurant in Exeter's Princesshay shopping centre. He was jailed for life
earlier this year after pleading guilty to one count of attempted murder and one
count of preparation of a terrorist act.

It later emerged that he had been encouraged to carry out the attack by unknown
contacts on the Internet, though he acted alone.

The incident is singled out by the strategy as a sign of the changing nature of
the threat.

"The attempted terrorist attack in Exeter has shown we need to be prepared
throughout the country to deal with a terrorist incident and minimise its
effects," said a leaflet entitled Pursue, Prevent, Protect, Prepare.

Kevin Bown, a counter-terrorism security adviser who trains firms across Devon
and Cornwall, said: "The idea is to prepare pub, club and shop managers for such
an attack, to ensure they are taking responsibility and decisions for
themselves. If an incident happens, you will take better decisions if you are
prepared."

The updated counter-terror strategy - known as Contest Two - is the first
unclassified document to contain a detailed account of UK officials' assessment
of the underlying causes of the terrorist threat and its likely future
direction.

It contains a stark warning about the likelihood of an attack involving a "dirty
bomb".

Ms Smith was asked whether there was a greater threat of a chemical, biological,
radiological and nuclear and explosive (CBRNE)  attack than five years ago.

She replied: "There is the potential, given the international situation, what we
believe to be the aspirations of some international terrorists, that it could
be."

The report said the threat to the UK came primarily from four sources. These
were the al Qaida leadership, terrorist groups affiliated to al Qaida,
"self-starting" terror networks or lone individuals motivated by an al
Qaida-style ideology like Reilly, and terrorist groups with their own identity
and agenda following a broadly similar ideology to al Qaida.

The document said al Qaida itself was "likely to fragment" under international
pressure and might not survive in its current form.

But its ideology would outlive changes to its structure, possibly leading to
greater threat to the UK from smaller "self-starting" organisations.

Shadow home secretary Chris Grayling said: "No part of the UK is free from
threat and we know that terrorists want soft targets.

"We have argued strongly that the Government is not doing enough to tackle the
problem of individuals and groups in the UK who are fostering the hatred and
extremism that lies behind the terrorist threat. That really does have to
change."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            March 25, 2009 Wednesday

'Be prepared for repeat of bomb terror attack';
Pubs, clubs and shopping centres must be prepared for a repeat of last year's
terror attack in Exeter, security experts warned last night.

BYLINE: Matt Chorley London Editor

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 545 words


As the Government published its latest counter-terrorism strategy, Westcountry
businesses were told to ensure they were ready to take tough decisions in the
event of any future incident.

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith warned yesterday  that a terrorist attack on the UK
was "highly likely and could happen, without warning, at any time".

Ms Smith said the threat was "severe" and mainly came from the al Qaida
leadership and their immediate "associates".

But the strategy also highlighted how some groups and individuals committed to
violent extremism were inspired by al Qaida's ideology but had no connection to
it.

In May last year, Nicky Reilly detonated a home-made bomb in the Giraffe
restaurant in Exeter's Princesshay shopping centre. He was jailed for life
earlier this year after pleading guilty to one count of attempted murder and one
count of preparation of a terrorist act.

It later emerged that he had been encouraged to carry out the attack by unknown
contacts on the Internet, though he acted alone.

The incident is singled out by the strategy as a sign of the changing nature of
the threat.

"The attempted terrorist attack in Exeter has shown we need to be prepared
throughout the country to deal with a terrorist incident and minimise its
effects," said a leaflet entitled Pursue, Prevent, Protect, Prepare.

Kevin Bown, a counter-terrorism security adviser who trains firms across Devon
and Cornwall, said: "The idea is to prepare pub, club and shop managers for such
an attack, to ensure they are taking responsibility and decisions for
themselves. If an incident happens, you will take better decisions if you are
prepared."

The updated counter-terror strategy - known as Contest Two - is the first
unclassified document to contain a detailed account of UK officials' assessment
of the underlying causes of the terrorist threat and its likely future
direction.

It contains a stark warning about the likelihood of an attack involving a "dirty
bomb".

Ms Smith was asked whether there was a greater threat of a chemical, biological,
radiological and nuclear and explosive (CBRNE)  attack than five years ago.

She replied: "There is the potential, given the international situation, what we
believe to be the aspirations of some international terrorists, that it could
be."

The report said the threat to the UK came primarily from four sources. These
were the al Qaida leadership, terrorist groups affiliated to al Qaida,
"self-starting" terror networks or lone individuals motivated by an al
Qaida-style ideology like Reilly, and terrorist groups with their own identity
and agenda following a broadly similar ideology to al Qaida.

The document said al Qaida itself was "likely to fragment" under international
pressure and might not survive in its current form.

But its ideology would outlive changes to its structure, possibly leading to
greater threat to the UK from smaller "self-starting" organisations.

Shadow home secretary Chris Grayling said: "No part of the UK is free from
threat and we know that terrorists want soft targets.

"We have argued strongly that the Government is not doing enough to tackle the
problem of individuals and groups in the UK who are fostering the hatred and
extremism that lies behind the terrorist threat. That really does have to
change."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday

[CORR] US says would like to see "end to terrorist attacks" in Sri Lanka

LENGTH: 222 words


Text of report headlined "US wants end to terrorist attacks in Lanka" published
by Sri Lankan newspaper Daily Mirror website on 25 March

[Refiling after attaching correct file]

US State Department Acting Deputy Department Spokesman Gordon Duguid says the US
wants to see an end to terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka, protection for
noncombatants in areas where conflict is ongoing and a resolution to the problem
be reached as quickly as possible.

"I don't think that what we want the government to do is the right way to put
the question. What we would like to see as an outcome is that there is an end to
terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka, that there is protection for noncombatants in
areas where conflict is ongoing, and then a resolution to the problem be reached
as quickly as possible, and that all parties who can agree on peaceful means to
end the conflict should work together to do so," he said in response to a
question raised at the daily state department press briefing Wednesday [25
March].

Asked if the US would you like to see the LTTE [Liberation Tigers of Tamil
Eelam] involved in peace talks Mr Duguid said: "It's not a question of what we
would like or what we wouldn't like. I've just explained to you what the
outcomes are that are necessary, as far as we see it."

Source: Daily Mirror website, Colombo, in English 25 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday

Yemen's Children Parliament condemns using children in terror attacks

LENGTH: 279 words


Text of report by Yemeni Armed Forces newspaper 26 September website on 25 March

[Unattributed report: "Yemen's Children Reject Exploitation in Sabotage and
Terrorist Acts"]

The Children's Parliament and the Democratic School in Yemen have rejected
deceiving and exploiting the children by Al-Qa'idah terrorist organization and
directing them towards carrying out acts of sabotage and terrorism, which target
the Yemenis and non-Yemenis, harm the national interests, affect the economy,
and distort the image of Yemen and its relations with other countries.

The Children's Parliament and the Democratic School urged the various state
agencies and Yemeni society in general to stand resolutely against the acts of
this extremist organization and the other groups concerning their exploitation
of children in acts which contradict religion and the law. The two
establishments regarded the two recent attacks, which used two children to
target Korean tourists and investigators, a despicable crime that should be
resisted and not repeated in any way possible.

Speaking to 26 September, Democratic School Director Jamal al-Shami called on
the parents to take care of the issues of their children and youth, follow up on
them, and not to let them exposed to the extremist elements since the latter
deceive them and make them a fuel to the extremist and terrorist acts. In the
meantime, he demanded the Ministry of Islamic Affairs and the Ministry of
Education to impose a strict censorship on the elements which might attract the
children under different names and recruit them to carry out acts which harm
them and their homeland.

Source: 26 September website, Sanaa, in Arabic 25 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday

US says would like to see "end to terrorist attacks" in Sri Lanka

LENGTH: 360 words


Text of report by Indrani Bagchi headlined "India gets vocal on N-arms policy"
published by Indian newspaper The Times of India website on 25 March

New Delhi, 25 March: The nuclear deal in place, India is now turning into a
strong and vocal member of the global non-proliferation and disarmament brigade,
which is intended to blunt a "non-pro" Obama administration's instinctive
criticisms against India.

Shyam Saran, prime minister's special envoy on the nuclear deal, on Tuesday [24
March] outlined a series of steps on everything from CTBT [Comprehensive Test
Ban Treaty] to fuel banks, peaceful utilization of outer space and FMCT [Fissile
Material Cut-off Treaty], in a speech at Brookings Institution, an
Obama-friendly think tank in Washington.

The Indian initiative comes as a pre-emptive move to a US administration that is
seen to be a lot more unbending in nuclear matters than the Bush administration.
Besides, Democrats have traditionally emphasized the non-proliferation aspect of
nuclear cooperation in comparison to the energy and economical aspects which the
Bushies focused on.

But it is clear India is willing to play both tunes - business and security -
simultaneously. Saran said, "(The) security-related agenda is substantive and no
less important than the follow-up on the civil nuclear cooperation agreement in
terms of expanded nuclear and high tech commerce."

Saran said India was waiting to see a US elaboration of its non-proliferation
objections, apart from CTBT "including the proposed summit on nuclear terrorism,
the high level dialogue among declared nuclear weapons states to kick start the
process of nuclear disarmament, the pursuit of an anti-satellite weapon
agreement and the elimination of clandestine nuclear proliferation networks."

India is also much closer to signing the proliferation security initiative (PSI)
that was such a bugbear during the Bush years. If India can sign this, it would
be a big brownie point for the Obamas, since the Bushies couldn't get India on
the table. Of course, CTBT is the big prize, but India will take its time over
that one.

Source: Daily Mirror website, Colombo, in English 26 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday

Bristol architecture students learn to counter terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 344 words


Bristol students are to learn how to design buildings which can resist terrorist
attacks.

Most attacked buildings would put people at risk from shards of glass or falling
masonry.

But architecture students at the University of the West of England (UWE) will
soon be learning how a building can be affected by an explosion.

Peter Naish,  a Counter Terrorism Security expert from Avon and Somerset police,
has been working with the university on a course for MA students.

Mr Naish, 49, said: "We have been working with the retail sector, the night-time
economy and those who work at ports or airports.

"However it has always been difficult for us to get to architects and planners,
when they are at the designing and planning stage of an urban development
transport hub or normal building.

"The design of a location can assist the terrorist. If it is a crowded place
with lots of glazing, then the flying debris can have a massive effect on any
death toll.

"Most injuries and fatalities are caused by the fragmentation of glass and
falling masonry.

"So we did some thinking outside of the box and decided to approach our local
universities and the University of the West of England  were very happy to work
with us."

A pilot session was held in November last year for 75 post-graduates and it was
so successful that another is planned for the end of April with 4th year
architecture students.

More sessions have also been held with local authority planners in South
Gloucestershire and North Somerset.

Mike Devereux, a senior lecturer in planning and architecture at  UWE, said:
"The feedback we have had from students participating in the workshops has been
very positive.

"It has opened their eyes to a fairly new aspect of planning. It has given them
food for thought that the terrorist threat is everywhere and that they need to
take account of it while undertaking their work.

"The terrorist risk in relation to planning has not traditionally been looked
at, but it is quite clear it is relevant with anything from landmark buildings
and transport hubs being potential targets."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday

Bristol architecture students learn to counter terror attacks

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 344 words


Bristol students are to learn how to design buildings which can resist terrorist
attacks.

Most attacked buildings would put people at risk from shards of glass or falling
masonry.

But architecture students at the University of the West of England (UWE) will
soon be learning how a building can be affected by an explosion.

Peter Naish,  a Counter Terrorism Security expert from Avon and Somerset police,
has been working with the university on a course for MA students.

Mr Naish, 49, said: "We have been working with the retail sector, the night-time
economy and those who work at ports or airports.

"However it has always been difficult for us to get to architects and planners,
when they are at the designing and planning stage of an urban development
transport hub or normal building.

"The design of a location can assist the terrorist. If it is a crowded place
with lots of glazing, then the flying debris can have a massive effect on any
death toll.

"Most injuries and fatalities are caused by the fragmentation of glass and
falling masonry.

"So we did some thinking outside of the box and decided to approach our local
universities and the University of the West of England  were very happy to work
with us."

A pilot session was held in November last year for 75 post-graduates and it was
so successful that another is planned for the end of April with 4th year
architecture students.

More sessions have also been held with local authority planners in South
Gloucestershire and North Somerset.

Mike Devereux, a senior lecturer in planning and architecture at  UWE, said:
"The feedback we have had from students participating in the workshops has been
very positive.

"It has opened their eyes to a fairly new aspect of planning. It has given them
food for thought that the terrorist threat is everywhere and that they need to
take account of it while undertaking their work.

"The terrorist risk in relation to planning has not traditionally been looked
at, but it is quite clear it is relevant with anything from landmark buildings
and transport hubs being potential targets."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 25


                      Copyright 2009 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday

FAT CATS IN TERROR OVER SHRED ATTACK

LENGTH: 981 words


STEPHEN WRIGHT CRIME EDITOR

SECURITY will be stepped up around fat-cat bankers after the home of disgraced
former RBS boss Sir Fred Goodwin was targeted by vandals.

A statement claiming to be from the group responsible for damage at his £
3million mansion warned of further attacks, saying: 'This is just the
beginning.'

The threat sparked fears of a terror campaign against those blamed for the
collapse in the financial system.

The concern is that anti-capitalist groups will copy the tactics of animal
rights militants by directly targeting individuals they hold responsible for the
credit crunch.

Tensions are already high, with anarchists reported to be plotting mayhem at
next week's G20 summit in London. Their intention is to the Square Mile by
staging sit-in protests and storming financial institutions, with the Bank of
England and RBS among the top targets. Effigies of bankers will be hung from
lampposts.

Security adviser Dai Davies, a former head of Scotland Yard's Royalty Protection
squad, said: 'Risk assessments will have to be carried out by the police on
individuals who are concerned about their safety. If there is cause for concern
then appropriate advice will be given and precautionsput in place. The
developments at Sir Fred Goodwin's home will almost certainly make some other
high-profile bankers want to review their own private security arrangements.'

Sir Fred, nicknamed Fred the Shred because of his ruthless cost-cutting regime,
is the first top banker to be personally targeted over the financial meltdown.

Windows were smashed at his home in Edinburgh's upmarket Morningside area. A
Mercedes S600 saloon parked in the driveway came in for similar treatment in the
4.35am attack.

Sir Fred, 50, a father of two, is abroad and has not been seen in public since
giving evidence at the Treasury Select Committee on February 10. His team of
public relations advisers have told him to lie low until the furore subsides
over his £700,000-a-year pension deal.

Sources close to the disgraced banker said he had been left 'shaken' by the
attack.

Shortly after the vandalism was discovered, a group calling itself Bank Bosses
Are Criminals claimed responsibility in an email sent to news organisations
under the name Moira McLeod and the address bankbossesarecriminals@mail.com

It read: 'Fred Goodwin's house in Edinburgh was attacked this morning. We are
angry that rich people, like him, are paying themselves a huge amount of money,
and living in luxury, while ordinary people are made unemployed, destitute and
homeless.

'This is a crime. Bank bosses should be jailed. This is just the beginning.'

Last night police were urgently trysaiding to trace the origins of the email.
Security sources said they had no knowledge of a group using the name 'Bank
Bosses Are Criminals' but are investigating the movements of known
anti-capitalists to see if they are linked to the attack.

It was unclear whether the threat came from a group or a lone operator, possibly
someone with a personal grudge against Sir Fred and the demise of his bank.

Asked if the Prime Minister had sympathy for Sir Fred, a No 10 spokesman said:
'On the specific question of damage to his property, there can be no excuse for
it at all.'

Lothian and Borders Police said they were investigating the warning of further
incidents. A spokesman 'The force takes very seriously any planned attack on any
individual or their property.'

Police were alerted to the incident after security systems at the premises were
activated. CCTV footage has been recovered and door-to- door inquiries are being
carried out.

Sir Fred has been subject to heavy criticism after refusing to give up any of
his huge pension.

The former RBS chief executive, who stepped down in October, rejected Government
pressure to accept a reduction in his package, insisting that changes to the
early retirement deal he negotiated when he was forced out in the autumn were
'not warranted'.

The massive payout was described as 'obscene' and 'grotesque' by MPs and
'unjustifiable and unacceptable' by Gordon Brown.

Of yesterday's vandalism, Jim Monaghan, of Tommy Sheridan's socialist Solidarity
Party, said: 'I am not arguing it is right to do this but people are starting to
pay the price for the mistakes of those like Sir Fred Goodwin. Anger is
growing.'

He also questioned whether the police presence would have been as heavy if the
incident had happened elsewhere. 'If you lived in a less affluent area, I think
you may not have seen the police until later this week,' he said.

RBS is now nearly 70 per cent owned by the taxpayer after a £20billion bailout.

Last month the bank unveiled a record £24.1billion loss and plans to raise up to
£25.5billion from the taxpayer.

It has been reported that RBS continued to pay for personal security for Sir
Fred following his departure from the bank, including CCTV monitoring of his
home. An RBS spokesman said: 'We are aware of the incident but it is a matter
for police. There are security arrangements in place for Sir Fred, as is normal
practice for departing executives.'

Last night one of the organisers of protests planned for April 1 ahead of the
G20 Summit confirmed that an effigy of Sir Fred would be among those hung from
lampposts by demonstrators.

Chris Knight, professor of anthropology at the University of East London, is
organising protests under the banner G20 Meltdown.

He told Radio 4's PM programme: 'We are going to be hanging a lot of people like
Fred the Shred from lampposts on April Fool's Day and I can only say let's hope
they are just effigies.

'To be honest, if he winds us up any more I'm afraid there will be real bankers
hanging from lampposts and let's hope that doesn't actually have to happen.

'They should realise the amount of fury and hatred there is for them and act
quickly, because quite honestly if it isn't humour it is going to be anger.'

Comment and Stephen Glover

ñ Page 14

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday

Plymouth man Reilly's bomb attack included in new UK counter-terrorism strategy;

An attempted terrorist attack by Plymouth bomber Nicky Reilly, pictured above,
demonstrates the need to be prepared nationally to deal with incidents,
according to the Government.

BYLINE: NICK LESTER Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 419 words


The botched bid by the Muslim convert from Stonehouse to detonate his home-made
nail bombs in an Exeter city centre restaurant last May is highlighted in an
updated counter-terrorism strategy, which is being billed by ministers as the
most comprehensive approach to tackling the threat issued by any government in
the world.

The would-be martyr, who also considered bombing Plymouth's Charles Cross police
station and Drake Circus shopping centre as well as Devonport dockyard, was
jailed at the Old Bailey in January for life with a minimum of 18 years.

A 13-page user-guide to the government strategy, entitled 'Pursue Prevent
Protect Prepare: The United Kingdom's Strategy for Countering International
Terrorism', states: "The attempted terrorist attack in Exeter has shown we need
to be prepared throughout the country to deal with a terrorist incident and to
minimise its effects."

It added: "We have studied every attack and plot against the UK to learn
everything we can about how to improve our resilience."

Some 60,000 people, from shopping centre security guards through to pub
landlords and hotel workers, who all work in crowded places that might be
targeted, are being trained to respond to the threat of terrorism.

The 176-page counter-terror strategy - known as Contest Two - is the first
unclassified document to contain a detailed account of UK officials' assessment
of the underlying causes of the terrorist threat and its likely future
direction.

It contains a stark warning about the likelihood of an attack involving a "dirty
bomb".

On the current threat to the UK, it classified the attack by Nicky Reilly as Al
Qa'ida inspired.

The report states: "Over the past few years 'self-starting' groups and networks
have emerged which pose a terrorist threat and are motivated by Al Qa'ida
related ideology, but have no connection to the Al Qa'ida organisation."

It adds: "In the UK, groups and individuals committed to violent extremism have
been inspired by Al Qa'ida's ideology, but have no connection to it.

"This wider movement includes individuals who have little or no direct contact
with any existing terrorist groups, but who have set out to undertake attacks
largely on their own (most recently in Exeter)."

The Contest strategy is divided into four strands - Prevent, Pursue, Protect and
Prepare.

These cover preventing radicalisation of potential terror recruits, disrupting
terror operations, reducing the vulnerability of the UK and ensuring the country
is ready for the consequences of any attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2009 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday

Plymouth man Reilly's bomb attack included in new UK counter-terrorism strategy;

An attempted terrorist attack by Plymouth bomber Nicky Reilly, pictured above,
demonstrates the need to be prepared nationally to deal with incidents,
according to the Government.

BYLINE: NICK LESTER Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 419  words


The botched bid by the Muslim convert from Stonehouse to detonate his home-made
nail bombs in an Exeter city centre restaurant last May is highlighted in an
updated counter-terrorism strategy, which is being billed by ministers as the
most comprehensive approach to tackling the threat issued by any government in
the world.

The would-be martyr, who also considered bombing Plymouth's Charles Cross police
station and Drake Circus shopping centre as well as Devonport dockyard, was
jailed at the Old Bailey in January for life with a minimum of 18 years.

A 13-page user-guide to the government strategy, entitled 'Pursue Prevent
Protect Prepare: The United Kingdom's Strategy for Countering International
Terrorism', states: "The attempted terrorist attack in Exeter has shown we need
to be prepared throughout the country to deal with a terrorist incident and to
minimise its effects."

It added: "We have studied every attack and plot against the UK to learn
everything we can about how to improve our resilience."

Some 60,000 people, from shopping centre security guards through to pub
landlords and hotel workers, who all work in crowded places that might be
targeted, are being trained to respond to the threat of terrorism.

The 176-page counter-terror strategy - known as Contest Two - is the first
unclassified document to contain a detailed account of UK officials' assessment
of the underlying causes of the terrorist threat and its likely future
direction.

It contains a stark warning about the likelihood of an attack involving a "dirty
bomb".

On the current threat to the UK, it classified the attack by Nicky Reilly as Al
Qa'ida inspired.

The report states: "Over the past few years 'self-starting' groups and networks
have emerged which pose a terrorist threat and are motivated by Al Qa'ida
related ideology, but have no connection to the Al Qa'ida organisation."

It adds: "In the UK, groups and individuals committed to violent extremism have
been inspired by Al Qa'ida's ideology, but have no connection to it.

"This wider movement includes individuals who have little or no direct contact
with any existing terrorist groups, but who have set out to undertake attacks
largely on their own (most recently in Exeter)."

The Contest strategy is divided into four strands - Prevent, Pursue, Protect and
Prepare.

These cover preventing radicalisation of potential terror recruits, disrupting
terror operations, reducing the vulnerability of the UK and ensuring the country
is ready for the consequences of any attack.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2009 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday

Plymouth man Reilly's bomb attack included in new UK counter-terrorism strategy;

An attempted terrorist attack by Plymouth bomber Nicky Reilly, pictured above,
demonstrates the need to be prepared nationally to deal with incidents,
according to the Government.

BYLINE: NICK LESTER Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 419 words


The botched bid by the Muslim convert from Stonehouse to detonate his home-made
nail bombs in an Exeter city centre restaurant last May is highlighted in an
updated counter-terrorism strategy, which is being billed by ministers as the
most comprehensive approach to tackling the threat issued by any government in
the world.

The would-be martyr, who also considered bombing Plymouth's Charles Cross police
station and Drake Circus shopping centre as well as Devonport dockyard, was
jailed at the Old Bailey in January for life with a minimum of 18 years.

A 13-page user-guide to the government strategy, entitled 'Pursue Prevent
Protect Prepare: The United Kingdom's Strategy for Countering International
Terrorism', states: "The attempted terrorist attack in Exeter has shown we need
to be prepared throughout the country to deal with a terrorist incident and to
minimise its effects."

It added: "We have studied every attack and plot against the UK to learn
everything we can about how to improve our resilience."

Some 60,000 people, from shopping centre security guards through to pub
landlords and hotel workers, who all work in crowded places that might be
targeted, are being trained to respond to the threat of terrorism.

The 176-page counter-terror strategy - known as Contest Two - is the first
unclassified document to contain a detailed account of UK officials' assessment
of the underlying causes of the terrorist threat and its likely future
direction.

It contains a stark warning about the likelihood of an attack involving a "dirty
bomb".

On the current threat to the UK, it classified the attack by Nicky Reilly as Al
Qa'ida inspired.

The report states: "Over the past few years 'self-starting' groups and networks
have emerged which pose a terrorist threat and are motivated by Al Qa'ida
related ideology, but have no connection to the Al Qa'ida organisation."

It adds: "In the UK, groups and individuals committed to violent extremism have
been inspired by Al Qa'ida's ideology, but have no connection to it.

"This wider movement includes individuals who have little or no direct contact
with any existing terrorist groups, but who have set out to undertake attacks
largely on their own (most recently in Exeter)."

The Contest strategy is divided into four strands - Prevent, Pursue, Protect and
Prepare.

These cover preventing radicalisation of potential terror recruits, disrupting
terror operations, reducing the vulnerability of the UK and ensuring the country
is ready for the consequences of any attack.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 75


                         Copyright 2009 Herald Express
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

Widow snubbed in fight for Saudi bomb payout;
Foreign Office refuses to accept husband died in terror attack, reports Steve
Boggan

BYLINE: Steve Boggan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1348 words


A woman whose husband was killed in a car bombing in Saudi Arabia has been
refused compensation by the British Government.

Jane Rodway, who was seriously injured in the explosion in 2000, has been told
by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office that her husband was the victim of a turf
war between expatriates involved in the illegal alcohol trade.

As a result, her request for help from a fund for British victims of terrorism
has been denied, dashing her last hopes of compensation.

The Red Cross, which administers the Relief Fund for UK Victims of Terrorism
Abroad on behalf of the British Government, has notified Mrs Rodway that her
request has been denied after an investigation by the Foreign Office. Mrs
Rodway, 58, said: "I feel lost, ignored and confused. No one has ever shown me a
scrap of evidence that could help me understand who killed my husband or why.

"I have written time and time again to the Saudi Royal Family and to the embassy
in London, but never received so much as a reply, let alone an apology or
compensation." Mrs Rodway's husband, Christopher, 47, was killed when a bomb
exploded under their car in Riyadh in November 2000. It was less than a year
before Islamic militants from Saudi Arabia masterminded the 9/11 attacks in the
United States. Refusing to consider the possibility that Islamic extremists
carried out the attack, the Saudi authorities blamed the illegal alcohol trade.

Fourteen expatriates, including six Britons, were arrested. One was sentenced to
death, but all were then released. Doubts were raised about the convictions at
the time, including the absence of forensic evidence linking the suspects to the
bomb and their lack of experience in handling explosives. The suspects said that
confessions had been beaten out of them.

Investigations by Scotland Yard anti-terrorism detectives and British media
organisations found no evidence of a turf war among those imprisoned, although
some admitted owning bars frequented by the expatriate community.

Six days after Mr Rodway's death, a second car bomb maimed two British aircraft
engineers outside a bar frequented by foreigners. Such bars were illegal but had
been tolerated by the Saudi police. In the 18 months after Mr Rodway's death at
least six more bombs went off in the cities of Riyadh and al-Khobar. In May
2003, 34 people were killed in a number of huge blasts.

In 2005, Scotland Yard antiterrorism detectives said at an inquest that there
was no evidence to support the theory that Mr Rodway had been killed in a turf
war.

Mrs Rodway believes that the Foreign Office is reluctant to back her claim
because of a fear of upsetting the Saudi authorities.

Her claim is backed by a former Labour minister who dealt with the case in 2000.
Brian Wilson, a former Foreign Office minister, said: "If I were a minister now
I would recommend that Mrs Rodway was helped by the fund.

"But my feeling is that she is the victim of a fiction that has been maintained
by the Foreign Office because the cost of abandoning it would be too high."
Trade between Britain and Saudi

Arabia has been worth tens of billions of pounds in recent decades. Arms
contracts are thought to be worth more than £20 billion, while exports to the
kingdom last year amounted to £2.27 billion.

Asked whether, in the absence of an alcohol turf war, the Rodway murder was most
likely a terrorist attack, Mr Wilson said: "My guess is that there is a shared
interest between the Saudis and Foreign Office not to follow the logic of that
deduction." Sandy Mitchell, then a 48-year-old chief anaesthetic technician
working at the Security Forces Hospital in Riyadh, and William Sampson, a
Canadian marketing specialist, were arrested and shown on television confessing
to the first two bombings.

Mr Mitchell was sentenced to be executed by partial beheading and crucifixion.
Three years after Mr Rodway's murder the men were pardoned and released. They
are suing the Saudi regime alleging torture. Mr Mitchell told The Times that the
advice given to the Red Cross was "spineless and cowardly".

He said: "By implication, it also suggests that the Foreign Office believes the
Saudi version of events, that we were guilty, when, privately, officials have
told us they accept our innocence." Mr Mitchell said that he had had no contact
with the Foreign Office for several years. His suspicion was that the latest
investigation amounted to no more than a re-reading of the case file.

The Red Cross said that it had to be guided by the Foreign Office and could not
comment on individual cases. Since the fund was started two years ago it has
paid out £424,100 to 28 people affected by terrorism in incidents ranging from
Sharm el- Sheikh, Egypt, to Mumbai, India.

The Foreign Office said: "We offer our sympathy to Jane Rodway.

However, we cannot investigate crimes or influence another country's legal
process." The Saudi Embassy in London said that any claim for compensation would
be a "private matter".

Mrs Rodway, who works as a school secretary in Westbury, Wiltshire, said that
she had been ignored by the Foreign Office for years, while repeated requests
for compensation from the Saudis had been turned down. She said that she had
also failed in attempts to recover several thousand pounds owed to Mr Rodway
from his job as a building management systems engineer at al-Kharj military
hospital in Riyadh.

"Things have been difficult financially since Christopher was murdered but I at
least thought I might be able to get some help from the fund for victims of
terrorism abroad," she said.

"Now the Foreign Office have stymied that by accepting the Saudi version of
events. And, anyway, if having a bomb put under your car isn't terrorism, then I
don't know what is."

'There was an almighty bang. I ran to him. He said he was dying'

Behind the story

It is still difficult for Jane Rodway to describe the day that her husband died
in her arms. She remembers that it was bright and sunny and the memory,
strangely, is interwoven with the sense of happiness that she had felt before
being struck by a car bomb (writes Steve Boggan).

It was a Friday and, as is customary in Saudi Arabia, the Rodways had been
enjoying the day off. Christopher, 47, an engineer, was on the computer in their
comfortable villa, editing some pictures of him scuba diving in Borneo with
their 15-year-old son, Daryl.

Life was good. Mrs Rodway had expected her husband to hesitate a little when she
asked him to take her to the local garden centre; women are not allowed to drive
in Saudi Arabia.

"I remember feeling very happy when Christopher just dropped everything and
said, 'OK, let's go'," recalls Mrs Rodway.

She is still clearly haunted by what happened next. It was about 12.30pm. She
threw on her black abbaya, as women must cover up in the kingdom, and got into
the passenger seat of their Chevrolet Blazer 4x4.

"We had been driving for about ten minutes and I remember going round a corner
and through a set of traffic lights when I just heard an almighty bang," said
Mrs Rodway.

"I blacked out, and when I came to, the inside of the car was all black and
there was no glass in any of the windows.

"My ears were ringing, there were flames coming from the car and I was in a lot
of pain. There was glass in my face and metal in my legs - there's still some in
my left leg.

"Then I looked over and saw

Christopher. The bomb had been placed under his side of the car. He was very
badly injured. I'd rather not describe his injuries; suffice to say they were
horrific.

"I wanted to get round to help him, but the passenger door was jammed, so I
climbed into the back and out of the back side window. By now, crowds were
gathering and there was a sense of confusion, but I still felt very much alone.

"I ran round to Christopher's side and held him. He told me he knew he was dying
and that he loved me and Daryl, and to say goodbye to the rest of his family.

Then I remember that an ambulance came. They didn't want me to go in the back
with him, so I jumped in the front. I was covered in blood.

"At the hospital, they told me Christopher was still alive. But I knew he was
dead."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sandy Mitchell: Saudi torture claims
William Sampson "confessed" on TV
Jane Rodway, from Wiltshire, says that she feels abandoned by the Foreign Office
over her husband's death. "If having a bomb put under your car isn't terrorism,
then I don't know what is"
ADAM GASSON / SWNS
The 4x4 in which Mr Rodway died

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 27, 2009 Friday

India says attacks, terrorism in cyberspace emerging as "new threats"

LENGTH: 303 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Cyber terrorism, attacks emerging as new
threats" published by Indian newspaper The Asian Age website on 27 March

New Delhi March 26: The Centre [federal government] on Thursday [26 March] said
cyber terrorism and cyber attacks have emerged as new threats with a capability
to paralyze critical infrastructure of the country. While speaking at the CBI's
[Central Bureau of Investigation] conference on International Police Cooperation
against Cyber Crime, Union [federal] Cabinet secretary K. M. Chandrasekhar said
cyber attacks and cyber terrorism could be carried out in such a way that
critical infrastructure could be completely paralyzed.

"Cyber attacks and cyber terrorism are the new looming threats on the horizon.
There could be attacks on critical infrastructure such as telecommunications,
power distribution, transportation, financial services, essential public utility
services and others," he said. He further said the damage of such attacks could
range from a simple shut down of a computer system to complete paralysis of a
significant portion of critical infrastructure in a specific region or even the
control nerve centre of the entire infrastructure.

"Annual take by theft-oriented cyber criminals is estimated to be as high as
100bn dollars and 97 per cent of these offences go undetected," he said. Mr
Chandrasekhar also said the government has taken several key initiatives to
enhance security of cyber space.

"The government has amended the Indian Information Technology Act 2000. Our
department of information technology has set up the Indian Computer Emergency
Response Team (CERT-In). It operates on a 24X7 basis and is actively engaging
its users with early warning alerts and advisories," he said.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 27 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            March 28, 2009 Saturday

Turkey condemns terrorist attacks in Pakistan, Afghanistan

LENGTH: 130 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 27 March: Turkey has condemned the terrorist incidents that took place
in Pakistan and Afghanistan on Thursday and Friday [27 March].

Issuing a statement on Friday, the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA)
said that Turkey strongly condemns the terrorist incident in Pakistan that
killed 48 people in a mosque in Jamrud town on Friday and an attack that took
place on a police post in Hilmand province of Afghanistan on Thursday that left
nine police officers dead.

Turkey shares the pain of her brotherly countries Pakistan and Afghanistan and
continues to be in the front against the common enemy of humanity, terrorism,
said the MFA.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1752 gmt 27 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 31, 2009 Tuesday

Punjab ignored five specific warning of possible terror attacks - Pakistan paper

LENGTH: 1349 words


Text of Report by Ansar Abbasi headlined "Five specific warnings ignored by
Punjab" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 31 March

Islamabad: Just like the Liberty attack earlier in the month, the Punjab
administration and police were given unbelievably specific warnings, including
one from the Lahore military corps, that police training/recruitment centres in
the province would be targeted by terrorists.

However, the terrorists were yet again given a free hand to go in for the kill
-- thanks to another serious security lapse and other "important" political
business of Punjab's security and administrative machinery.

The two gory incidents -- Liberty and Manawan -- prove that there is no
government in the Punjab, or the one that does not care about security, where
terrorists feel free to carry out evil operations and kill many.

On both occasions, police and administration officials boasted to have done
miracles. Previously, they claimed saving the lives of Sri Lankan cricketers
where a quick-thinking brave driver had saved them, and now seek credit for
catching four of the assailants and killing as many, no matter after they had
achieved their goals.

Documents made available to The News reveal at least five different warnings of
a possible terrorist attack were given during the last 12 days to police and
other authorities in Lahore but practically nothing was done, thus giving the
terrorists an easy go.

On the contrary, the Punjab inspector general of police (IGP) was seen enjoying
food with Moonis Elahi of the PML-Q in a fashionable cafe of Gulberg a few days
back. They sat together for almost two and a half hours. On Friday last, senior
police officers were invited along with their families to a dinner at a
five-star hotel in Lahore, where the main attraction was music.

While just after the imposition of governor's rule, key police officials in
Lahore were replaced, at least 50 station head officers (SHOs) and almost all
DSPs were lately transferred. More than 30 DSPs -- made OSD by the Shahbaz
Sharif government for their questionable record -- were given postings in the
special branch.

Documents show besides the Interior Ministry and the provincial police chief,
the Lahore's Military Corps headquarters had also forewarned of a terrorist
attack. In one case, the entire top district, regional and provincial police
hierarchy was specifically told about extremely high threats of terrorist
attacks on police buildings/establishments in the Punjab. What adds insult to
injury is the fact that these warnings were issued between March 19 and March 28
but still police could not prevent the Manawan terrorist attack on the training
school.

According to details, the Punjab IGP wrote to all and sundry in the police
department a "top secret" and "most immediate" faxed message on the 23rd of this
month. The operative part of the message read: "Today a suicide attack on a
police building in Islamabad proved fatal. The threat of such a terrorist attack
on police buildings/establishments in the Punjab is also very high.

"It is hereby directed that high alert is declared for security arrangements of
all police stations/police buildings/police establishments/police lines and
police training institutions. Following steps be taken immediately:

1. SOPs for the security of all police buildings/establishments be followed in
letter and spirit and no laxity be tolerated.

2. Snap checking of security arrangements of police buildings/establishments be
conducted during day and night by gazetted officers.

3. The capacity/capability of the security staff/sentries be ensured to meet the
challenge.

4. Security cameras/security devices installed in buildings/establishments
should be in working order round the clock.

5. No unauthorised person or vehicle be allowed access to these
buildings/establishments without proper checking and search.

6. No cluster of force should be allowed unnecessarily. However, if it is
necessary, all precautions should be taken for the security of the manpower.

"These instructions are general guidelines on the subject. Further security
measures should also be taken to ensure foolproof security of manpower and
buildings/establishments."

The instruction was issued on March 23 but what was predicted has been carried
out so smoothly and conveniently by the terrorists, who targeted the Manawan
police training centre -- the largest one in the region. Just four days before
the warning, the Military Headquarters 4 Corps also known as Lahore Corps warned
different military and civilian authorities, including several officers of
Lahore police, of "threats of a terrorist attack".

The communication, tagged as "most immediate" reads: "Reportedly, in the
backdrop of the gruesome terrorist act against the Sri Lankan team, terrorists
may be prompted to exploit the uncertain internal security environment to
perpetrate similar attacks. Apropos, terrorist activities may be manifested as
following:

a. Terrorists may resort to similar tactics with necessary innovation to target
high-profile defence/strategic installations, VIPs, diplomats and other
government functionaries.

b. Serial suicide bombings followed by indiscriminate firing of small arms to
cause massive casualties.

c. Abduction of VIPs, high-profile civilians or foreigners for a prolonged
period.

d. Target important political/religious leaders.

2. In order to meet the dynamic threat, following measures are required to be
undertaken:

a. Re-evaluation of existing capability/potential vis-a-vis the threat.

b. Creation/availability of well-equipped and well-trained Quick Reaction
Forces/special elements (commando, aviation, fire brigade, etc).

3. In view of the above, it is imperative that necessary preventive and
pre-emptive foolproof security measures should be adopted to forestall any
untoward incident. All concerned to be extra vigilant in and around respective
formations/units..."

On March 27, the 4 Corps issued another "threat warning", saying: "Reportedly
terrorists may target high-ranking civil/military officials and important
installations in Lahore in near future..." Different authorities, including
police were warned that crowding of troops/individuals at one location be
discouraged.

On March 23, the Interior Ministry shared its information with all concerned,
including the Punjab police chief, conveying: "Reportedly, two groups of 13-14
miscreants each have been dispatched to Islamabad and Lahore to carry out
terrorist activities. The miscreants are likely to move in the guise of
Tableeghi groups. No further details are available..."

On February 28, the 4 Corps again circulated a report, saying: "It has been
learnt that some kind of sabotage activity might take place in the country
during the next 48 hours. The likely targets are main cities, commercial
centres, communication infrastructure, trains and indiscriminate firing on the
pattern of Mumbai attacks..."

Despite all these warning, the authorities concerned were caught napping. But
top provincial police and administration officials remain jubilant, touting the
Manawan operation as a great success. In case of the Liberty attack, the CID had
clearly warned authorities that RAW terrorists intended to target the Sri Lankan
cricket squad while travelling between the hotel and the stadium.

It precisely happened the same way. Initially, the provincial administration and
the police in that case, too, boasted of having done a miraculous job by saving
the lives of the visiting cricketers. But later the government's inquiry
confirmed an extremely serious security lapse as out of around 150 police
personnel deputed there, hardly 25 were present at the scene.

The irony is that no top gun was held responsible, as some junior officers were
made scapegoats. A night prior to the Liberty attack, the top administration of
the province attended a meeting at the Governor's house, where Interior Adviser
Rehman Malik was also present, on the political wheeling-dealing to achieve the
target of installing a PPP government in Punjab.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 31 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                             March 31, 2009 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

19 dead in terror attack bloodbath in Pakistan;
INTERNATIONAL Militants target police academy in eight-hour rampage

BYLINE: MARTIN ANDREW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 572 words


Gunmen launched a co-ordinated attack on a Pakistani police academy today In an
hours-long rampage that ended with 19 people dead.

The unidentified attackers struck In Lahore where earlier this month a similar
group tried to ambush the Sri Lankan cricket team In a city-centre shoot out.

This time they threw grenades, seized hostages and killed at least eight police
and three civilians before being overpowered by Pakistani security forces In
armoured vehicles and helicopters.

Six attackers were arrested and eight others died in the eighthour battle to
retake the academy.

More than 90 off icers were wounded by the attackers, some of whom wore police
uniforms. The attack on the Manawan Police Training School began as dozens of
the officers carried out morning drills. About 700 trainees were inside at the
time.

"We were attacked with bombs. Thick smoke surrounded us. We all ran In panic In
different directions," said Mohammad Aslf a wounded officer taken to a hospital.
He described the attackers as bearded and young.

"Some of the attackers are wearing (police) uniforms," officer Ahsan Younus
said. "They have also taken some of our police as hostage."

The forces had surrounded the compound, exchanging fire In scenes reminiscent of
the Islamic extremist siege In the Indian city of Mumbal In November and the
cricket attack. Armoured vehicles entered the compound while hell-copters
hovered overhead. At times, explosions rocked the scene.

At one point, security forces cornered several militants on the top floor of a
building on the compound, where the gunmen held about 35 hostages.

"The eight hours were like eight centuries," said Mohammad Salman, 23, one of
the hostages. "It was like I died several times. I had made up my mind that It
was all over."

Police captured one of the suspected gunmen six hours after the Initial assault,
dragging the scruffy, bearded man to a field outside the academy and kicking
him.

No militant group Immediately claimed responsibility for the attack.

Pakistan has endured scores of suicide bombings and other attacks In recent
years, and It faces tremendous Western pressure to eradicate al Qalda and
Tall-ban Insurgents on Its soil. Most of the violence occurs along the country's
north-west border with Afghanistan, but attacks have occurred In all the major
cities.

They pose a major test for the weak, year-old civilian administration of
President Aslf All Zardari, which has been struggling with political turmoil In
recent weeks.

The Obama administration has warned Pakistan that militancy threatens the
nation's very existence, while US officials complain the country's spy agencies
still keep ties with some of the Insurgent groups.

Interior Ministry chief Rehman Malik told state-run TV that Pakistan's police
are not equipped to fight the wave of terrorism.

"In our country, at our different borders, arms are coming In, stinger missiles
are coming In, rocket launchers are coming In, heavy equipment Is coming - It
should be stopped," he said. "Whoever the antl-state elements are, they are
destabilising the country."

Several militant groups operate well beyond Pakistan's north-west border. Some
of them, Including Lashkar-e-Talba, have their roots In the Kashmir dispute with
India, and Pakistani spy agencies are believed to have helped set them up.

"It was like I died several times. I had made up my mind that it was all over

MOHAMMED SALMAN

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Pakistani police officers carry an injured colleague to safety after
gunmen attacked a training school on the outskirts of Lahore

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      March 31, 2009 Tuesday 07:07 AM GMT

Militant group threatens more terror attacks

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 123 words


A little-known group claiming responsibility for the attack on a police academy
threatened more outrages today unless Pakistani troops left tribal areas near
the Afghan border and America stopped drone attacks against militants.

Omar Farooq, who said he was the spokesman for Fedayeen al-Islam, also said the
group carried out a similar commando-style attack against the Sri Lanka cricket
team earlier this month in Lahore - the same city where a group of gunmen
attacked the police academy yesterday, killing at least six trainee officers.

Rao Iftikhar, a government official in Punjab province, said four suspected
militants were arrested yesterday, while at least three blew themselves up.

He said three other bodies were still unidentified.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                             March 31, 2009 Tuesday

CONFIDENCE TRICKS We could all do with a confidence boost in these uncertain
times. The economic slump means everyone is anxious about their job ‹ or
competing for a new one post-redundancy ‹ and their finances. In a recent
interview Gordon Brown implored us to show more of the British spirit which saw
us through the Blitz and the 7/7 terror attacks. This is all very well for
people who ooze confidence but what if your self-esteem is fragile ? Don't worry
‹ there are tricks which can make you appear more self-assured. Even world
leaders like Barack Obama get lessons in working a crowd. And the good news is
that confidence has nothing to do with status, beauty or wealth. It is all about
radiating inner security which draws people to you like a magnet.

LENGTH: 1665 words


Our writers tested five different "confidence tricks" that are guaranteed to
give you the edge in that all-important interview or first date.

BODY LANGUAGE TRAINING

What is it? We all know a firm handshake is the way to impress but how else can
you alter your gestures and stature to appear more confident? This course
provides you with the answers.

The expert: Former US actress Elizabeth Kuhnke, who has a masters in theatre art
and is trained in neurolinguistic programming. With 20 years' experience, her
clients include Vodaphone, KPMG and lawyers Herbert Smith. Author of Body
Language for Dummies, the guide for improving your non-verbal skills.

What happened? For the first 15 minutes we just talked. Then it occurred to me
this was more than just a chat. Elizabeth had been scrutinising my body
movements all along. First, she pointed out I'd been sitting with my hands
between my legs. Was I cold or nervous? Either way, it was an awkward gesture
which certainly didn't radiate confidence. Then there were my "over-reactive"
facial expressions. Elizabeth explained that an open smile is good but grimacing
in response to a personal question is not ‹ and people make personality
judgments based on these expressions. Next, we acted out different handshakes.
Body language occurs in "clusters" ‹ crossed legs, folded arms and narrowed eyes
all give a hostile impression. Elizabeth says: "People who feel good about
themselves move with ease. Their gestures are open and welcoming, with shoulders
back and heads held high." Hand gestures should only be used to emphasise a
point, not used randomly, she explains. Short, sharp gestures show authority.
But hands waving in the air is a no-no.

As a journalist, I spend a lot of my time interviewing people. They can end up
like rabbits in the headlights if there is too much eye contact. So when do you
look away in one-to-one encounters? Elizabeth's answer is: don't. It's a sign of
relinquishing your power. But a sideways glance with a smile still conveys
interest and is less intense. Her tip is to expose the neck by putting your head
on one side, which is a sympathetic gesture. And always sit with your legs
slightly apart. This "open" body language shows you have nothing to hide so
gives you more authority and control.

The session was a revelation and provided plenty of useful tips. Elizabeth is
warm, friendly and, of course, a master of her own body language. Top trick?
Never pull your arms in close to your sides at a meeting ‹ it reduces your
stature and diminishes your influence.

Contact: Kuhnke Communication, 01491 640919, www.kuhnkecommunication.com.

Cost: £500 an hour for corporate clients but sessions can be tailored to needs
and bank balance.

SOPHIE GOODCHILD

CHARISMA COACHING

What is it? The UK's first charisma masterclass where students learn to perfect
the art of personal magnetism.

The expert: Richard Reid, a Harley Street psychotherapist, hypnotherapist and
former therapist to the stars at rehab clinic The Priory. What happened? Richard
helps his students to get what they want, from whom they want. We all long to be
that sexy, va-va-voom creature who sets a room alight. But truly charismatic
people are not loud or showy. Yes, they take charge of the room ‹ but through
their integrity and authenticity. They stand up for themselves and what they
believe in.

I attended a taster session to address my lack of confidence at work and in my
love life. According to Richard, we need to study our impact on people then
fine-tune it. He said that the first thing I needed to do is stop waffling.
Magnetic people "keep communications short, sharp and sweet, paint powerful
pictures and highlight the action needed".

I'm good at open-ended questions but need to listen more. "To be compelling,
learn the dreams of your audience and speak their language," says Richard. He
reminds me that the best revelations often come half a second after someone has
finished speaking, and encourages me to drop my self-limiting beliefs and
celebrate things I do well instead. Charismatic people stand tall, project and
connect, and they are fun to be around. The trick, says Richard, is to employ
our own unique magic ‹ to live by the values we hold dear. He asks me to write
my dream epitaph on my gravestone and tells me to make sure everything I do
connects back to that.

Top trick? Be clear about your agenda when you are invited on a date. Say: "I
really had a good time tonight, I'd love to do it again and here's my card."

Contact: Richard Reid's two-day Charisma Masterclass is on the weekend 4-5
April, 10am-4pm, at Dorich House, Kingston Hill, Surrey. Contact Pinnacle
Proactive (0870 0117 899, www.pinnacleproactive.com).

Cost: Taster sessions are free, the weekend course costs £250.

LIZ HOGGARD

LIFE CLUBS

What is it? Weekly workshops around the UK to help you "get more from your
life", especially confidence. These cost a credit crunch-friendly £15 for a
90-minute weekly session for 15-20 people.

The expert: Former life coach and mother-of-four Nina Grunfeld started Life
Clubs in 2004.

What happened? Nina's classes focus on eight aspects of life: confidence,
organisation, tools, focus, goals, success, change and identity. She uses a
series of questions and charts to demonstrate that the answers are already in
your head. One of her methods is to get you to imagine your problem from a
different perspective ‹ an animal's, from the top of a hill, or from a character
in a novel. This problem could be, for example, lacking confidence to change and
take risks. Suddenly Gerald Durrell's My Family and Other Animals popped into my
head, a book I haven't read for 30 years. It was what Nina calls a "lightbulb
moment". She could see it on my face. What would Durrell's family have done?
They wouldn't compromise, I told her. They pursued the life they wanted to lead.

Nina sums up her work in a quote from famed diarist Anais Nin: "The day came
when the risk to remain tight in a bud was more painful than the risk it took to
blossom." I left feeling brighter, lighter and more positive. On the way home, I
made a detour into Peter Jones to buy myself a new mug ‹ a pink one ‹ in
defiance of the unwritten white-only crockery rule in our house. Change indeed.

Top trick? Identify activities that have made you feel good before, then tap
into them.

Contact: Find your local club at www.lifeclubs.co.uk.

Cost: £15 for a 90-minute group session.

JACKIE ANNESLEY

CONFIDENCE TRICKS What is it? Lessons in how to speak confidently in public ‹
invaluable whether you're in a difficult meeting or holding the stage at a
conference.

The expert: Maggie Eyre, an actress who trains businessmen and high-profile
clients including Helen Clark, former prime minister of New Zealand, to be
effective, charismatic speechmakers. What happened? Maggie immediately engaged
me in conversation over a cup of tea. This wasn't mere gossip but a valuable
chance for her to assess how I communicate when I'm at ease. Because Maggie
believes you are at your most appealing when truly yourself, she looks for my
most natural ticks, singling out my "warm, open smile". Then I was on my feet,
warming up my face by blowing "horse lips", massaging my cheeks and making
ridiculous noises designed to loosen up my voice. This exercise also shakes off
your ego ‹ apparently vital before making a speech. Before I can revert to my
default position of mild anxiety, Maggie stands me in front of a video camera
and instructs me to talk about my passions ‹ not the most comfortable task for a
naturally shy person. Somehow I manage to hold forth uninterrupted for several
minutes and before I know it, there I am on Maggie's widescreen TV. Immediately
I can see what's wrong: not enough eye contact and too much "umming". But I am
also more animated than I expected, and much more smiley, both good things
according to Maggie because they give you that all-important "authenticity" that
makes you seem confident. After teaching me a few more methods ‹ breathing,
pace, tone ‹ I was on camera again, this time much improved. Despite being
pathologically averse to public speaking, Maggie made the whole thing so much
fun I found the experience quite addictive.

Top trick? Maggie has a whole bag of tricks, but she is adamant about one thing:
preparation. Not only can it eradicate 75 per cent of your nerves, but if you
know what you intend to say beforehand, you will come across clearly and
naturally in front of your audience.

Contact: Maggie Eyre is holding special redundancy workshops from April to July.
Prices start at £275 per day (07772 971 320, www.maggieeyre.com).

Charlotte Ross

BREATHING EASILY

MINDFULNESS-BASED COGNITIVE THERAPY

What is it? An eight-week course (including homework) based on Buddhist
vipassana meditation, breathing techniques and yoga. Makes you more aware of
your body as well as more calm and confident. Also helps with low self-esteem,
depression, anxiety, fatigue and even chronic pain.

The expert: Former homeopath Vanessa Hope, who now teaches at Bangor
University's Centre for Mindfulness Research and Practice.

What happened? The theory behind this therapy is simple: if you are stressed,
breathe deeply and calm down by focusing on what is stressing you. I suffer from
chronic shoulder pain which can leave me feeling low so Vanessa started off by
teaching me a basic stretch to deal with the discomfort.

Next was the three-minute "breathing space" exercise. Essentially, it's a matter
of becoming aware of your breathing. The aim is to relax while staying
completely alert. I'd arrived for my meeting with Vanessa very overwrought
(don't ask) and left feeling collected and unstrung.

Top trick: Vanessa says that even during a meeting or a heated row you can
employ breathing exercises and they will instantly help you feel more confident
and approach work or personal problems with more ease.

Contact: The Dove Clinic, 19 Wimpole St W1 (020 7580-8886, www.doveclinic.com

Cost: Taster session free. £240 for an eight-week course.

NICK CURTIS

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright  2009    Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                             March 31, 2009 Tuesday

Britain Condemns Terrorist Attack In Pakistan

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 159 words


BRITAIN last night unreservedly condemned a terrorist assault on a police
academy in Pakistan which left 19 people dead.

Unidentified attackers struck at the academy in Lahore, the same city where the
Sri Lankan cricket team was ambushed in a similar atrocity earlier this month.

At least eight police and three civilians were killed before the
grenade-throwing attackers were overpowered by Pakistani security forces. More
than 90 officers were wounded by the attackers, some of whom wore police
uniforms.

Six suspected militants were arrested and eight others died in the battle to
retake the academy.

Foreign Secretary David Miliband described the incident as "deeply saddening".

"We condemn the attack unreservedly, and extend our sympathies to the families
of the victims," he said. "The attack is yet another reminder of the threat that
Pakistan faces from violent extremism. It is a threat that the international
community must help Pakistan to tackle."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             March 31, 2009 Tuesday

Sneinton sex attacker was Afghan asylum seeker;
An Asylum seeker from Afghanistan has admitted he was the sex attacker who
brought terror to the streets of Sneinton.

BYLINE: REBECCA SHERDLEY Legal affairs correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 311 words


A sudden wave of incidents in December, 2006, sparked police warnings for women
to be vigilant and  repeated appeals for information.

Police issued a CD-fit of the sex attacker and put up posters appealing to local
people to help them catch him.

Self-defence classes were held in the area  and more than 250 attack alarms were
handed out  by police.

But yesterday, at Nottingham Crown Court, Nooroz Hameed Khan,  formerly of
Kimberley Street, Sneinton, admitted he was the sex attacker. He pleaded guilty
to three charges of sexual assault on the women.

He  first struck  at 4pm on Thursday, December 21, 2006, when a 29-year-old
Sneinton woman was on her way to meet her sister in Trent Lane. Khan struck up a
conversation with her and then groped her.

In Meadow Lane 50 minutes late, a 16-year-old girl was seriously sexually
assaulted. She managed to push her attacker off and ran away.

And on Christmas Day he targeted another victim, a 24-year-old woman,  in Dale
Street. He began talking to her, but she kicked him and escaped.

In an exclusive interview with the Post at the time, the Trent Lane victim said:
"He was completely out of control and very violent.

"I am scared to go out on my own, even in daylight. Until he's caught I won't
rest.

"I hate the thought of him still out there waiting to attack someone else."

After hearing he had pleaded guilty, she said she was relieved. "I can put this
behind me," she said.

Khan had lived in Rotherham since he applied for asylum in January,  2008. He
said he had fled the Taliban.

He was arrested in July last year and originally accused of five offences, but
prosecutors decided to drop a fourth charge of sexual assault and an allegation
of assault causing actual bodily harm.

Judge Michael Stokes QC remanded him in custody until April 24 for a
pre-sentence report to be prepared.

rebecca.sherdley@nottinghameveningpost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2009 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                            April 1, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

Broad back after terrorist attack;
sportdigest

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 69 words


CRICKET: Chris Broad returns to cricket today for the first time since last
month's terrorist attack in Lahore. The English match referee (pictured) is on
duty for World Cup qualifiers in South Africa. Broad was on his way to the
second Test between Pakistan and Sri Lanka when the visiting team's bus was
attacked.

Broad and umpires Simon Taufel and Steve Davis were unhurt, but the driver of
their vehicle was killed..

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            April 1, 2009 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

LONDON LOCKDOWN;
POLICE PREPARE FOR TERROR ATTACKS AND RIOTS FROM DEMONSTRATORS

BYLINE: JON CLEMENTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 701 words


THEY scoured the streets, combed through bins and drains and trained their
security cameras on all corners of the city.

And yesterday police promised they would do everything in their power to prevent
any attacks on the world leaders converging in the capital for G20.

All leave has been cancelled and staff drafted in from other forces amid
unprecedented levels of security.

The biggest operation will be the protection of Barack Obama, who yesterday
landed at Stansted airport before being whisked away by Marine One, his
bullet-proof helicopter specially brought over from America.

Security is even tighter than when George Bush visited in November 2003
following the invasion of Iraq. An estimated 6,000 police officers will be on
duty. Police from Kent, Surrey, Essex, Thames Valley, City of London and Herts
will bolster the Met's numbers.

More than 100 officers and civilian staff will monitor large areas of the city
on 3,000 CCTV cameras in a bid to spot any terrorist activity or potential
riots.

Gordon Brown pledged a rapid and tough police response to any attack.

He said: "No violence can be tolerated, no intimidation of people is allowed."

The biggest threat to the US president will come as he drives the two miles from
the US ambassador's residence to Buckingham Palace today where he will meet the
Queen and Gordon Brown at a reception.

A motorcade of up to 30 vehicles will transport Mr Obama, his wife Michelle,
White House officials and secret service bodyguards.

The president will ride in "The Beast" - a limousine with five-inch thick armour
and bullet-proof glass.

The Cadillac, equipped with an air filtration system in case of chemical or
biological attack, has tyres which cannot be shot out.

It is also armed with a tear gas cannon and night-vision camera.

Within the cortege there is a six-strong medical team armed with first aid
equipment and supplies of AB blood matching the president's group.

The Beast will guarded by officers from the Specialist Protection Group and
Diplomatic Protection Group in armoured Land Rovers.

They carry personal 9mm Glock semiautomatic pistols, MP5 carbines, G9 rifles and
shotguns. Motorcycle outriders will clear a path through all traffic, blocking
junctions and running red lights to keep the motorcade running.

Snipers from the Met's elite CO19 firearms unit will be positioned on building
roofs along the route with spotters to identify any potential threat.

Its Air Support Unit helicopter will track the convoy from above beaming live
pictures to the control room at Scotland Yard.

Planning for the route began months ago with Scotland Yard's Counter Terrorism
Command and MI5 briefing an advance Secret Service team.

Hundreds of officers have spent days securing drains, bins and any other
location where a bomb could be hidden.

Sniffer dogs will sweep the streets at the last minute checking for explosives
and suspect devices.

Plain clothes officers are to mingle with the crowds and alert commanders to any
threatening behaviour or problems by radio.

President Obama and his massive security entourage arrived in Britain on Air
Force One for his first official visit to the UK.

After he was taken to his VH-3D helicopter, he was flown on a secret route to
the US ambassador's resident in Regent's Park, Central London.

The flight was as usual expected to be accompanied by at least three other
identical choppers, constantly changing height to throw off attackers.

This process - called the shell game - begins as soon as the real Marine One
leaves the ground. The aircraft always fly between 300 and 500ft, making it
harder for attackers on the ground to target them with surface-to-air missiles.

As well as Mr Obama, Mr Brown and the Queen police and security officials have
18 other world leaders to protect.

At least 84,000 man-hours have been allocated to the entirety of Operation
Glencoe - the pounds 7.5million operation to look after delegates at the G20 in
East London's ExCel Centre.

Police were yesterday called to reports of a suspect package outside the Bank of
England.

Officers carried out a controlled explosion.

A City of London police spokeswoman said: "The explosion was a precautionary
measure. Everything was back to normal within the hour."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VISIT Mr Obama and wife arrive in Britain READY Ritz window boarded up
PROBE Expert with device which police blew up at Bank of England BOAT Police
near Canary Wharf PROTECTION Trafalgar Square statue FEARS Police search
building near ExCel Centre SAFETY Worker checks bin in the City PRECAUTION
Police search man at Bank of England yesterday as woman looks on ALL EYES
Officers keep CCTV watch SECURITY Police guard Obama's jet TALKS Cops will be
out in force in the City

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                            April 1, 2009 Wednesday

Broad is back at work following terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 205 words


Nottingham cricket official Chris Broad was today taking charge of his first
match since being caught up in a terrorist attack in Pakistan.

The former Notts and England opening batsman will referee three matches on the
opening day of the World Cup Qualifier  in South Africa.

He will take charge of the games between Scotland and Ireland in Benoni, Canada
versus Oman in Pretoria and Namibia against Uganda in Krugersdorp.

He will also officiate in all four of the other match days during the opening
round of the 19-day tournament.

The 51-year-old was caught up in the attack on the Sri Lankan team bus as they
made their way to the Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore for the third day of the second
Test against Pakistan.

Mr Broad and umpires Simon Taufel and Steve Davis were not  injured but the
driver of their vehicle was killed.

Six policemen also died in the incident, while local umpire Ahsan Raza was shot
in the  stomach and seven Sri Lankan players, as well as assistant coach Paul
Farbrace,  were injured.

After the attack, Mr Broad criticised the Pakistani security forces. He said
people on the buses were  "sitting ducks".

Speaking to the Evening Post last night, Mr Broad said: "I'll be absolutely fine
and I'm looking forward to it."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2009 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 2, 2009 Thursday

Pakistan TV show discusses terror attack on Lahore police school

LENGTH: 1907 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1400 GMT on 30 March relays daily current
affairs program, "Crisis Cell," hosted by Sana Bucha, a working journalist for
over six years. The program features expert analysis on major issues.

Reception: Good

Duration: 30 minutes

Bucha begins the program by saying: "//Another day another crisis//." Two big
events of terrorism have occurred in Lahore in a month -- an attack on the Sri
Lankan team and then a raid on Manawa Police Training Center by armed
terrorists. Considered safe until some time ago, the Punjab Province, too, could
not remain safe from the wave of terrorism. A question arising in everyone's
mind is: why have the government institutions been unsuccessful in controlling
the repeated events of terrorism and the large-scale loss of lives? There are
reports that the government had intimation of this sort of an attack a week
earlier, despite that why no steps were taken to stop it?

Bucha plays an audio clipping of Interior Minister Rehman Malik.

[Begin Rehman Malik recording] The federal government has been giving policy to
them [provincial government] to beef up security. The reports of the
intelligence bureau, ISI [Inter-Services Intelligence], and other agencies have
always mentioned that security should be beefed up. Now it is to be seen as to
what measures have been taken by the provincial government on this. [end
recording]

Bucha says: the federal government conveyed the message to the provincial
government to beef up security, but it seems that this terrorism-related report
got lost on its way to Punjab Governor Salman Taseer, who seems to be unaware of
any such report.

Bucha plays a video clipping of Salman Taseer.

[Begin Salman Taseer recording] These are a series of attacks so we are trying
to control terrorism as far as possible and investigate how they [terrorists]
came and who they are? [end recording]

Bucha says: we are also waiting to know where they came from and who they are.
Before the attack on the Sri Lankan team last month, a proper warning was given,
but the government institutions were unable to stop it. Both these major
terrorist events have occurred in Lahore during the governor's rule. This is
also of great concern that terrorists enter cities, especially in Punjab,
without any fear and operate openly. If we look at today's event, the armed
terrorists entered the training school without any fear and hindrance and opened
fire at the police personnel who were busy in regular training. The training
school proved to be an easy target for the terrorists. It seems difficult for a
center with very little residential facilities to resist this type of organized
activity. Organized groups take advantage of such difficulty and make the area
insecure and unsafe. We saw that a wave of terrorism came in the North-West
Frontier Provimce and Baluchistan, and now it seems that this problem and crisis
have reached Punjab.

Bucha establishes a video link with Rustam Shah Mehmand, former ambassador to
Afghanistan, and says: you watched that the operation continued the whole day,
who is behind this, what are their objectives, and "//who can we actually
blame//?"

Mehmand says: first, there is a "//decline of institutions//" and "//decline of
rule of law//" in our country. Whenever such incidents occur, we always point
toward a foreign hand, India, or Lashkar-e-Taiyiba. No impartial and
comprehensive inquiry of such incidents in the past has been conducted. If
inquiries were conducted, why is there no result? It has not been determined as
to who motivates, trains, finances, and sponsors the terrorists and what are
their objectives? The reason is that there has been a breakdown of institutions
during the last eight years and the decline is still in progress. Second, there
is "//lack of leadership//," third "//lack of motivation//," and fourth "//lack
of commitment//." It can be a "//lethal combination//" for a civilized society
that lacks commitment, motivation, concern for reforms, and discusses
personalities, rather than issues. Similar things happen in a country that lacks
a system of "//institutionalized accountability//." What has happened today can
happen at any other place tomorrow.

Bucha says: it is happening in Federally Administered Tribal Areas [FATA] and
Baluchistan. We cannot ignore this, but we are trying to counter this. But do
you think that now terrorists are trying to convey the message that Punjab is
within their reach. Do you think that the governor's rule has something to do
with the "//institutional breakdown//" in Punjab, as two big incidents occurred
during this time. So do you think that our province is facing serious security
lapse due to "//personal squad settling//?"

Mehmand says: this is true to some extent. If there is no "//captain of the
team//" in a country, district, division, or province, everyone blames others
for incompetence and incapability. There used to be a deputy commissioner in our
country, all institutions were under him and he was responsible, accountable,
and answerable for everything, but now that system is over. Law and order has
been handed over to the elected members, the nazims, who have no training,
motivation, commitment, or impartiality, so what can we expect from them? Police
are being killed and have no leadership. They have no motivation, are not
answerable or accountable to anyone, so the whole system is heading toward
decline. You are right that especially the events that have occurred in Punjab
are the results of "//deliberate vacuum//," which was created there. This was
the only province where matters were running smoothly.

Bucha says: President Obama's policy has been under discussion for the last few
days, and the ISI has been severely criticized. Afrasiab Khattak has said, while
talking to Geo News, that the ISI has funded and now they should identify the
cause of the problem. How do you see the ISI involvement?

Mehmand says: I do not think that the ISI can be involved in something
inconsistent with the government's policy. In Pervez Musharraf's rule, the ISI
was directly under him since he was the Army chief. How it is possible that the
ISI was helping the Taleban or any other group in Afghanistan against
Musharraf's policy, and this thing was not known to Musahrraf, the FBI, or the
CIA, and today, the issue has been raised that the ISI has contacts there.
People who were associated with the ISI at that time have been replaced by new
ones. If the new ones have the same association and it is known to others, then
I think it is a compromise on the independence and integrity of the whole
institution. I think it is impossible that the ISI has contacts with resistant
groups in Afghanistan, because it does not have the resources to go against the
government's policy. I think insurgency is excavating in Afghanistan, war is
expanding and increasing in intensity, and they are not controlling it. The
productivity of opium is increasing; there are problems of governance,
corruption, so they are blaming others for their failures.

Bucha asks: do you think that it was the kind of operation in which anything was
possible. Pakistan's elite forces managed it very well. Do you think it will
send a signal to the terrorists that we have control and if we want we can bring
the situation under control and defeat them?

Mehmand says: it is right that they have been overpowered and defeated but not
before they caused considerable damage. So I think they might get motivated
that, in the future, before blowing themselves up, they can cause damage the
target.

Bucha asks: how will the United States see this? Will it appreciate Pakistan's
capability or consider that its drone attacks are justified in this area?

Mehmand says: the United States will say that it has repeatedly said that
terrorism and extremism were enemies of both Pakistan and the United States, so
they should combat them collectively in a consented and determined way. So the
US theory will get strengthened.

Bucha says: the governor's rule has been lifted in Punjab, and Punjab Assembly's
meeting has been called on Wednesday for the election of the leader of the
house. There are also reports that the officers who were removed from their
positions after Shehbaz Sharif's disqualification will also be reinstated to
their previous positions.

Bucha establishes a telephonic link with senior analyst Shafqat Mehmood from
Lahore.

Bucha asks Mehmood: will Shehbaz Sharif, the former chief minister of Punjab, be
reinstated if declared eligible?

Mehmood says: until a decision has been made on the petition of suspension by
Shehbaz Sharif in the Supreme Court, he cannot be the chief minister because, as
things stand today, he is disqualified. So some new person will become the chief
minister, and it will be probably from the PML-N [Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz]
because the PPP [Pakistan Peoples Party] has announced that it will support the
PML-N.

Bucha asks: if this happens, then in your opinion who will replace Shehbaz
Sharif?

Mehmood says: it is too early to say anything but PML-N Punjab President Sardar
Zulfiqar Khosa can be a possible candidate.

Bucha asks: after the dismissal of Shehbaz Sharif's government and imposition of
governor's rule, there have been two incidents of terrorism in Punjab. Is it
just a mere coincidence or it points toward something else?

Mehmood says: no, it is "//entirely coincidental//." To say that it has some
relation with the governor's rule is a "//deep conspiracy theory//." However, it
can be attributed to the lack of preparedness of police, since it is a
"//transitional administration//." But linking terrorism with political changes
is not right.

Bucha says: political changes come in transition. Even if we don't consider the
relationship of blasts with the governor's rule, we are to hold someone
responsible for this. In your opinion, who is responsible?

Mehmood says: I think that the actions taken against certain organizations might
have some link with these incidents. Or, Baitullah Mehsud or the Taleban might
have thought that they will take this war to the biggest city of Punjab.

Bucha asks: there has been a lot of speculation regarding from where the
terrorists came. Some said they came from southern Punjab, others said
Afghanistan, but in your opinion, from where did the terrorists actually come?
Do you see any link with FATA or terrorist groups of Afghanistan? Where is the
actual source of this severe wave of terrorism that has engulfed Punjab?

Mehmood says: it is very difficult to reach a final conclusion. But the arrested
terrorist reportedly belongs to Waziristan. So this indicates that the operation
has originated from Waziristan. About southern Punjab, it was also reported that
the terrorists were talking in Punjabi. There is no doubt that there are
terrorist places all over Pakistan. They might be in southern Punjab or central
Punjab and the NWFP, so it will be improper to name southern Punjab only. I
think the possibility of terror attacks exists everywhere.

Bucha concludes by saying: there is institutional breakdown, and it happens in
transition period, and obviously, this is a wave of terrorism and it can be
pointed toward Baitullah Mehsud. But it will require proper and thorough
investigation to reach the truth. The governor's rule has been lifted now and
what will be the new developments? Of course, we will keep an eye on it.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1400gmt 30 Mar 09

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 2, 2009 Thursday

Seven-year-old child injured in "terrorist attack" - Israel radio

LENGTH: 90 words


At 0930 gmt on 2 April, Israeli public radio station Voice of Israel Network B
interrupted the midday newsreel to announce "a terrorist attack" in the
settlement of Bat Ayin in the Etziyon Bloc in which two people were injured, one
of them a seven-year-old child who was attacked with an ax. Latest reports are
that the child is in a serious condition and being rushed to hospital. The
second injury was apparently caused by gunfire. The fate of the attacker is
currently unknown.

Source: Voice of Israel, Jerusalem, in Hebrew 0930 gmt 2 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Bury Times

                             April 2, 2009 Thursday

Teenage victim of knifepoint sex attack relives the terror each day

SECTION: BURY NEWS (BURY NEWS)

LENGTH: 802 words


A TERRIFIED teenager is afraid to leave her house after she was sexually
assaulted at knifepoint while waiting for a bus.

Christina McLean, aged 19, has courageously spoken to the Bury Times about her
ordeal which happened beside the busy Rochdale Road, outside the gates to
Openshaw Park.

She has waived her right to anonymity in a bid to help catch the "dangerous"
attacker who followed her home before pouncing. The vulnerable teenager, who
lives with her parents and 21-year-old brother, says she is too scared to leave
her home because she is plagued by the image of her attacker.

"I picture him all the time," she said. "I haven't been able to sleep because
every time I shut my eyes, I can see him in my mind. I can't leave the house,
except to go in the garden, and all I can do is sit and cry."

Her ordeal followed an evening at a friend's house in Brandlesholme when she
decided to return home to collect an overnight bag.

She said: "I go to my friend's house once or twice a week to get away from
things. I always walk the same way, sometimes a lot later at night, and I never
thought anything of it."

She got off a bus at Bury Interchange at 8.30pm on March 17, and starting to
walk along Lord Street, towards Asda, when she noticed a white Ford car driving
closely behind.

She turned on to Rochdale Road and headed towards Wash Lane, but the car was
still trailing her and, feeling concerned, she called into a corner shop to
alert the owner.

She arrived home safely where she told her parents what had happened.

About an hour later, her father walked her to the bus stop so she could return
to her friend's house as planned.

Christina said: "My dad can't go out much because he has recently been diagnosed
with cancer and is very poorly but he was calling into the Turf pub to make
arrangements for a friend's funeral the next day so we walked back down Wash
Lane together.

"There is a footpath at the side of the pub which leads on to Rochdale Road so I
left him in the pub and headed to the bus stop because I thought I would be safe
near the main road."

Christina had been waiting at the bus stop opposite the Roach Hotel pub for a
few minutes when the same car reappeared.

"It drove past me about four or five times and I was feeling nervous so I
starting pacing up and down the road, between bus stops. But then the car pulled
up outside the park gates and a man got out."

The attacker pulled out a knife and pushed Christina against the railings,
pressing the weapon into her throat before he sexually assaulted her.

"I just froze and shut my eyes," she said. "I was so scared and I didn't know
what was happening. All I was thinking was that someone would come and help me,
but no one came."

Petrified, she managed to bite her attacker's arm and wrestle free from his
grasp, forcing him to get back in the car and drive off.

After collapsing to the ground in a state of shock, Christina was helped to her
feet by a teenage boy and girl.

They then walked her back to the Turf pub to find her father and police were
called.

Christina said: "The worrying thing is, I look a lot younger then 19. Me and my
older brother have a growth problem which means I actually look about
13-year-old, my body is like a little girl's.

"My dad is having a really hard time because he blames himself for what has
happened and he has enough problems without this. It is not his fault. It is
nobody's fault other than the man who did it."

The offender was described as Asian, aged in his mid-20s and of a skinny build,
with a shaved head and a birthmark above one of his eyes.

He was wearing a black top with a blue denim jacket and blue denim jeans.

The car was a distinctive white Ford, possibly an old-style Mondeo, which had a
red driver's door and an unusual yellow sticker with black foreign writing in
the back window.

Police are appealing for a man to come forward who was seen sitting outside the
Roach Hotel at the time of the incident and may have witnessed the attack.

Christina also recalls a car parked outside a house about three doors down from
the Roach Hotel with its engine running.

DC Donna Haldane, of Bury's public protection unit, said: "While attacks like
this are rare, the way this man has targeted this young woman is extremely
worrying, and we are determined to find and arrest him.

"Thankfully, the victim wasn't seriously injured by this man. But she has been
left badly traumatised."

Christina, who is currently unemployed and awaiting an eye operation, is urging
girls to be extra vigilant and walk in groups.

"You never think it will happen to you," she said. "I have been doing that
journey for two years. I know the route like the back of my hand and I never
thought anything like this would happen to me."

Anyone with any information should call Bury police on 0161 856 8185 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                             April 2, 2009 Thursday

Terror Attack Pair Are Behind Bars

BYLINE: Sophie Doughty

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 319 words


VIOLENT bandits who threatened pub staff with a crowbar are behind bars today.

Michael Robert Sayers and Jason Mumford attacked workers when they burst into a
flat above a Newcastle bar, armed with a crowbar and CS gas spray.

The pair each admitted a charge of aggravated burglary and have been sentenced
to six years in jail.

It happened at a flat above Butler's Bar Bistro, on Nun Street, Newcastle, just
before 9pm on December 14.

Sayers, 33, of Liddle Court, in Newcastle city centre, and Mumford, 36, of Derby
Court, in the city's West End, were sentenced at Newcastle Crown Court yesterday
after pleading guilty at an earlier hearing.

Sayers and Mumford sneaked into the flat above the bar through the cellar, armed
with a crowbar and a can of CS spray.

They threatened staff and an altercation took place before the attackers fled
the premises empty handed.

Det Sgt  Andy Percival  said the incident had caused a great deal of distress to
the victims, and he was glad the burglars were now behind bars.

"The offenders gained entry to the property via the cellar.

"It was particularly distressing for the people inside the building to be
confronted in this way," he said.

"Crimes of this nature are not tolerated, and the sentence passed by the court
demonstrates that we will target offenders and take serious action.

"I would like to thank the witnesses who attended court help ensure justice was
done in this case."

Mumford, who has a string of convictions for robbery and dishonesty, was jailed
in 2001 for his role in a bungled heist.

Along with accomplices, he washed and ironed £20,000 of stolen cash caked with
security dye after a botched on a security guard at the Esso petrol station on
Wellington Street, Newcastle.

The men, masked and armed with a metal pipe, threatened the guard and ordered
him to hand over the special moneybox.

But when they tried to open the box, it sprayed red dye all over the cash.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             April 4, 2009 Saturday
                                  Eire Edition

I CAN NEVER LEAVE THE HOUSE AGAIN;
RAPE VICTIM RELIVES TERROR ATTACK BY TEEN THUGS

BYLINE: MICHELLE O'KEEFFE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 456 words


THE woman who was viciously raped and beaten by two teenage thugs said
yesterday: I'll never leave home again.

The traumatised mum, in her mid-50s, was dragged into a black sports car yards
from her home in Terenure, Dublin, and taken to Bushy Park were she was raped
twice by one of the perverts while his sick pal watched.

The brave victim said she wanted to die and will never leave her house again.

Detectives hope they will be able catch her attackers from a clump of hair the
woman ripped from her rapist's head. She said: "It was animalistic. I wish they
had taken a rock and put it through my head.

"Death would have been preferable to the 25 minutes that I went through. I don't
think I had even ever read anything about a rape as bad as this.

"I know now that I probably should not have gone for a walk on my own but I go
out on to my own street for a short stroll and to get some fresh air at the same
time every night.

"But I can tell you, I will never leave my house again - I won't step outside my
front door ever again.

"I don't know what a normal rape is. I was raped twice by the same individual
and beaten badly. If you could only see my face now. My attackers were Dublin
all right. But not Ronnie Drew Dublin.

"They were the sort of people...

well I better not say, but I think you know what I mean.

"If you could hear the things they were saying, the language. Rape is traumatic
to anyone, but I am in my 50s and I have daughters. Can you imagine how they
feel seeing me like this?

At the moment I can't even come to terms with what happened. I am trying to
relive that night in certain order." The woman was taken to the deserted park
where she was pushed down the banks of the River Dodder.

She was raped by one of the teenagers twice between 12.35am and 1am while the
other one looked on.

But her ordeal lasted two hours as she was savagely beaten, ridiculed and
humiliated.

After her attackers fled she rang the gardai on her mobile and was brought to
the Rotunda rape unit, where she was treated for a number of hours before being
brought home. She has met the Rape Crisis Centre but counselling is not an
option for her just now.

She said: "They want me to go to counselling, but I am sick of talking about it.
I don't even see myself moving on beyond 10 minutes.

"One reason I went to the crisis centre is that I needed to talk about it, and
then I spoke to the gardai about it for about six hours and now I can't talk any
more."

The woman, who suffered severe bruising and injuries to her head, face and upper
body, ripped out a clump of hair from the rapist which it is hoped will identify
him.

Anyone with information is asked to contact gardai on 01 6666400 or the
confidential line 1800 666 111.

Irish Mirror Comment: Page 10

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              April 5, 2009 Sunday

Afghan paper urges government to prevent repeat of Kandahar terror attack

LENGTH: 560 words


Text of editorial entitled "Terrorist attack in Kandahar" published by Afghan
newspaper Daily Afghanistan, part of the Afghanistan newspaper group, on 2 April

As was expected, the suicide attacks are still continuing this year. A few
months ago, the Justice Ministry was attacked in Kabul and dozens of people were
killed and injured. It is reported that a similar attack occurred in the
provincial council offices in Kandahar and it is said that the armed men started
to use light guns after the suicide attack, which killed 10 people and wounded
many others.

The continuation of the suicide attacks indicates the firm determination of the
terrorist groups. Despite the relaxed stance of the Afghan government, there
have been no differences in the opposition's approach. Apart from that,
attacking the government offices shows that the armed opposition groups,
particularly the Taleban, are looking for political privileges in the upcoming
presidential election. This happens at a time when the issue of negotiation with
the Taleban has been raised by the president many times and recently the United
States also talked about the issue of negotiation with moderate Taleban.

Although the Taleban have always said that there are no moderates and extremists
among them and they are all following the same goal, the issue of negotiations
has sometimes been raised for election purposes. The government has not made it
clear which group of the Taleban is going to be called for negotiations and why
the terrorist attacks have not decreased. However, the government act calmly
against the Taleban.

Another question is why the opposition attacks are increasing while more
military troops are being sent to fight the terrorists. What happened in
Kandahar yesterday was a response to the government's call for negotiation. The
Taleban will not easily accept negotiations with an appointed government [by
foreigners]. The Taleban and other armed opposition groups have viewed the
presence of foreign forces as illegal and their main excuse [not to talk] is the
foreigners' presence in the country.

The approach of the terrorism campaign raises doubts in social understanding,
for why, if additional foreign troops are being deployed in Afghanistan and some
other countries are also announcing their readiness to send more troops to the
country, is there not a firm determination to crack down on the insurgents? Now,
considering the performance of foreign forces against the opposition and their
behaviour towards the Afghan civilians, it is time to take more decisive actions
against whatever threatens the security of the people.

Killing and wounding many of our people in Kandahar is regrettable and the
Afghan government is required to make serious efforts in ensuring security,
protecting the Afghans' interests and safeguarding the legitimate law of the
country. Moreover, the police and the national security forces are required to
prevent the killing of innocent people.

It was predicted that this year would be a difficult year for the Afghan people.
The Afghan government must make strong efforts to ensure the peace and stability
of its country. The Afghan people expected that the incident of the Justice
Ministry would not happen again, but now they are desperately hoping the
Kandahar incident does not occur again.

Source: Daily Afghanistan, Kabul, in Dari 2 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 7, 2009 Tuesday

Security increased in northwest Pakistan to avert possible terror attack

LENGTH: 119 words


Text of report by leading private Pakistani satellite TV channel Geo News
website on 6 April

Peshawar: NWFP [North-West Frontier Province] police have put the security on
high alert in Peshawar and other cities of province as a preventive measure
against the rising threats of terrorism here on Monday [6 April].

According to police sources, the decision was taken to avert possible terror
strike while police and security personnel have been equipped with latest arms
and ammunitions.

Law enforcement agencies troops have been deployed on all the entrances and
exits of major cities including Charsadda, Mardan, Swabi, Noshera, Bannu and
Kohat, sources added.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 06 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       April 7, 2009 Tuesday 6:27 PM BST

ISLAMIC TERRORIST 'SET-UP BOMB ATTACKS IN IRAQ FROM UK BASE'

BYLINE: Jack Doyle, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 552 words


An Islamic terrorist who was granted asylum in Britain used this country as a
base from which to organise bomb attacks on coalition troops in Iraq, a court
heard today.

Hilal Abdul Razzaq Ali Al Jedda, 52, smuggled bomb components and an explosives
expert into Iraq for an Islamist terror cell, an immigration court was told.

He also recruited potential terrorists and helped transport them to Iraq to
carry out bomb attacks, it was claimed.

Details of his past emerged as Al Jedda, a former Iraqi national team basketball
player, who has seven children by three wives, lost an appeal against his
citizenship being revoked.

The Special Immigration Appeals Commission ruled in favour of the Home Office
who said taking away his passport was in the public interest.

Mr Justice Mitting said Al Jedda, an Iraqi national now in Turkey, was an
``unconvincing and dishonest'' witness and dismissed his claim that he only
attended a Pakistani terror training camp in the 1980s ``for the purpose of
personal fitness''.

Submissions from lawyers for the Home Secretary alleged Al Jedda helped a
terrorist explosives expert travel to Iraq and together the two ``conspired...to
conduct improvised explosives device (IED) attacks on coalition forces in the
areas around Fallujah and Baghdad''.

Using his British passport, Al Jedda travelled around the Middle East in 2003
and 2004, visiting Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Iraq and the United Arab Emirates
carrying large sums of money which he could not account for.

He travelled to Iraq in September 2004 and and was detained by the British in
Basra before being released in December 2007 after a court challenge.

He first came to Britain in 1992 with his first wife and their four children and
was granted asylum and given leave to remain. In 2000 the family was given
British citizenship.

He claimed unemployment and incapacity benefit from 1996 despite having
``substantial'' sums of money, the court heard.

It found there was ``no evidence'' he declared any income to the taxman.

He claimed he earned £15,000 over ten years renting property and importing
honey.

The court ruled his Al Jedda's human rights would not be breached by revoking
his citizenship, which was first removed when he was released from custody in
Iraq.

Mr Justice Mitting accepted the evidence from the Security Service that he could
use Britain as a base from which to carry out further terror attacks.

He said: ``The fact that the Appellant conducted the activities which we have
found that he did from a UK base demonstrates the importance of the base to him.

``In or from it, he must have been able to raise the money, otherwise wholly
unexplained, for his extensive foreign travelling and residence between his
release from Syrian detention in 2001 and his detention in October 2004.

``His activities give rise to the reasonable suspicion that he might, while in
the United Kingdom, associate with other individuals who pose a threat to
national security and who live in or have access to the United Kingdom.

``We agree that possession of a British passport would be likely to facilitate
travel to areas in which national security interests are engaged, including the
Middle East and Central Asia and, without a visa, to friendly countries (such as
EEA states) whose national security might be put at risk by his activities.''

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday

'Al-Qaida terror attack' on UK was imminent, security officials say

LENGTH: 687 words

ABSTRACT

Twelve arrests made in northern England in string of raids to thwart alleged
terrorist cell

FULL TEXT

Counterterrorism officials believe an alleged al-Qaida terror plot against the
UK, designed to cause mass casualties, was due to be carried out within days,
the Guardian has learned.

A total of  as police carried out a string of raids to thwart an alleged
terrorist cell with overseas links.

Sources with knowledge of the investigation say the carrying out of the
"al-Qaida driven" plot was "imminent".

UK officials say they believe the attack would have been attempted by Easter
Monday at the latest.

According to counterterrorism sources, it is unclear where and what the
terrorists were targeting.

Officials regularly point out that intelligence is not always conclusive, but
today said they believed that the terror plot was highly ambitious and a big
attack was being planned.

The source said reports of a northern nightclub or shopping centre being the
targets were wholly untrue.

As searches continued at addresses across northern England, the prime minister,
Gordon Brown, described the suspected plot as "very big" and said investigators
were examining links with in Pakistan.

"We know there are links between terrorists in Britain and Pakistan, and that is
an important issue for us to follow through," he said.

The 12 men were arrested at seven locations across north-west England and at
least another eight addresses in the region were searched.

Scores of students witnessed one arrest, carried out at Liverpool John Moores
University. Police said one man was arrested near the campus.

"When I looked, I saw a man on the floor," student Daniel Taylor said. "Police
were shouting at him and one of the officers had what looked like a machine gun
pointed right into his head."

Three men were arrested at Cedar Grove, Liverpool. "I looked and, about midway
down the road, there were a load of police officers dressed in black and they
were bringing some men out of a house," a resident said.

Another man was arrested at Earle Road, also in Liverpool. Police stood guard
outside the flat and forensics officers could be seen through net curtains.

Abdul Kassan, 20, who lives next door to the raided flat, was at work in his
neighbouring off-licence yesterday when police cars screeched to a halt and
officers ran into the building.

"We were working in the shop and the police cars suddenly arrived and police got
out with guns," he said.

"We didn't know what was going on - they just told us to shut the shop. It was
about 3.30pm. The officers came into the back of the shop.

"The blokes in the flat are new, they've only just moved in, they've all got
long beards.

"They bought stuff from us and seemed normal. I think they are Pakistani.

They looked like students and only seemed to speak a little bit of English."

Police also searched a bed-and-breakfast in Pimlico Road, Clitheroe, today.//

More than 100 officers, with a helicopter in support, surrounded the Lancashire
town's new Homebase store yesterday and arrested two men working for a private
security firm.

The pair were staying at the B&B but had not been there long and were unknown to
neighbours.

The house itself was sealed off and put under police guard as forensic
specialists went in and out.

The pair's employer has a security contract with Homebase and they were not
directly employed by the DIY chain, which only completed its Clitheroe outlet
this week.

A planned opening by the town's mayor in time for the Easter weekend went ahead
today and the store was full of shoppers.

The mayor, John Hill, changed his speech to focus on terrorism and community
relations in the historic market town.

He said: "I would like to stress that the men arrested are not from Clitheroe.

"We work extremely well together as a community here and the Ribble Valley, and
people should carry on regardless of what has happened.

"There is no tension here and we would like it to remain like this."

Hill said terrorism "can happen anywhere" and urged people to "remain vigilant
and report any suspicious activity to the police".

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 10, 2009 Friday

Pakistan railways warned of likely terror attacks

LENGTH: 506 words


Text of report by Ali Raza headlined "Railways warned of terrorist attacks"
published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 10 April

Lahore: The Interior Ministry has warned the Pakistan Railways that the Railway
Headquarters and the Railway Police Lines in Lahore face serious terrorist
threats between April 15 and May 5.

Interior Ministry sources said Jaish-e-Islami, the new name of the
Lashkar-e-Islam, a splinter group of the Tehrik-e-Taleban Pakistan (TTP) in the
Bajaur Agency, was posing a threat. They said Wali Rehman was the Jaish-e-Islami
chief who wanted to end the so-called un-Islamic activities and implement the
Shariah throughout the agency. Abu Hamza was the deputy commander.

Interior ministry sources said the ministry had sent a letter to the Pakistan
Railways, the Punjab government, the Punjab IGP, the IG Railway, the CCPO Lahore
and the Lahore division commissioner to take necessary action and beef up
security in the provincial capital.

Railway sources said the letter stated that intelligence reports received from
different sources revealed the Jaish-e-Islami had deputed three terrorists,
namely Manan Afzal Mujahid Khan, Masil Khan and Faridullah, to accomplish the
task. The ministry's letter warned the railway authorities that these terrorists
were ordered to accomplish their task between April 15 and May 5, 2009.

When contacted, PR DGM Furrukh Taimur confirmed the railway authorities had
received a letter from the interior ministry. He said several security measures
had also been taken to counter any such terrorist attack.

The interior ministry letter has also pointed out another group of three
militants belonging to the terrorist outfit Al-Jihad had planned to target the
Ambassador Hotel and the Punjab Public Service Commission, Lahore.

It further said the Tehrik-e-Taleban Pakistan (TTP) had focused on targeting
major cities for terrorist activities for the reason that if drone operations
were carried out against them in these cities, general populace would also
suffer massive casualties, further discrediting the government.

The ministry directed all the concerned to be extra vigilant and take
pre-emptive measures to avert any untoward incident. It further directed
security personnel to make all efforts to identify and apprehend the miscreants
immediately.

Meanwhile, the railways has beefed up security at all important installations,
including Railway Headquarters, Railway Police Lines and railway stations across
the country.

Pakistan Railways General-Manager (operations) Saeed Akhtar on Thursday called a
high-level meeting of the Pakistan Railways and directed strict security
measures at the PR Headquarters and railway stations.

He instructed all officers to monitor their departments and make sure that every
employee wore their original PR ID cards and punching cards on entry and exit
points of the headquarter. He said even the vice-president would not be allowed
to enter the premises without wearing the ID card.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 10 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             April 10, 2009 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

EASTER ' BOMB PLOT';
TERROR COPS IN RAIDS OVER ATTACK FEARS

BYLINE: PAUL BYRNE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 83 words


ANTI-terror police who swooped after the secret memo blunder say they have
foiled a plot to bomb Easter shoppers.

Suspects were allegedly seen filming at Manchester shops as intercepted emails
hinted a terror strike was imminent.

A police source said: "These men weren't tourists. Taking pictures was
suspicious." Police had to bring forward raids by 12 hours when anti-terror
chief Bob Quick was pictured carrying documents that gave details of the plan.
Twelve men were arrested.

FULL STORY: PAGES 4& 5

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PROBE House is searched yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 10, 2009 Friday
                                   Edition 2

Countdown to a terror attack - the big fear behind police search

BYLINE: Russell Jenkins; Andrew Norfolk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 675 words


Police feared that terrorists were within ten days of launching an attack. Last
night officers were searching Liverpool for a bomb factory that may have been
used to store explosives.

Searches continued throughout the day at 14 properties across northwest England,
where 12 men - at least 10 of them Pakistanis on student visas - were arrested
on Wednesday. The men were being held at undisclosed police stations across the
North West.

Hundreds of police officers carried out the raids in Liverpool, Manchester and
Clitheroe as police monitoring e-mails and internet "chatter" feared that a
group of al-Qaeda conspirators were ready to strike.

Over the past month, officers from the North West Counter-Terrorism Unit have
been carrying out covertsurveillance of the suspects, who were seen filming and
taking photographs of themselves outside potential targets in Manchester.These
included the Trafford Centre, one of Britain's largest shopping complexes, and
the Arndale Centre.

In Liverpool, where five suspects were arrested on Wednesday at three locations
east of the city centre, the search for a bomb factory focused on a dilapidated
block of flats where overseas students lived.

Both ends of Highgate Street were sealed off soon after 4pm on Wednesday by
dozens of police vehicles and more than 50 uniformed officers as their armed
colleagues led a raid on the flats.Teams of forensic science specialists carried
large boxes of property yesterday from one of the 24 flats, which are set back
from the street behind high steel fencing. A senior detective said that the
suspects were believed to have been "collecting material for a large explosion".

The student tenant of a small terraced house a mile away, where three suspects
were arrested after an armed counter-terrorism unit wearing balaclavas broke
down the front door and smashed the front window, was named by his landlord last
night as Abdul Wahab Khan.

Mr Khan, 26, from Pakistan, has been renting the house in Toxteth for almost two
years. His student identity card states that he is studying English at
Manchester College of Professional Studies. Detectives would not confirm whether
he was under arrest.

Half a mile away, police continued to search a flat above an off-licence where a
bearded Asian man in his 20s was arrested on Wednesday. The owner of the
property, Ali Shalash, said that he had agreed to rent it for six months to two
Pakistani students who walked into his letting agency three weeks ago.

In Cheetham Hill, at the centre of the police operation in Manchester, some of
those detained were said to speak Pashtu, a language used in the Pakistan-
Afghanistan border region.

Two of the arrested men had been living there since September with five others
in a rented house from which neighbours often heard the sound of Arabic prayer
tapes. They also attended prayers five times a day at a nearby Islamic centre.
One of them was said to be called Abid Naseer. Another resident of the property,
Hamza Shenwari, was held by police on the M602 near Manchester.

Two men who were arrested at the Cyber net Cafe in Cheetham Hill were said by
local people yesterday to be Sultan Sher and a man called Tariq, both thought to
be from Peshawar.

A Pakistani student detained and then released after the terror raids in
Liverpool spoke yesterday of his shock. Muhammad Adil, a 27-year-old student in
the last year of his MBA at Liverpool John Moores University, was confronted by
counter-terrorism police s he sat eating peanuts with a friend outside the
university library.

"Special forces with telescopes on their machine guns came and said 'hands up',"
he said. He told the officers he was a student, but was made to lie on the floor
and have his hands tied behind his back.

"I asked them to tell me what's wrong," Mr Adil told The Guardian. "I was using
a polite voice. I ask him how long, do you have any proof that I'm a terrorist?
I said, 'I don't know what you're talking about, I'm a student. I was laughing
in shock at that point and the officer told me it's not the time to laugh.' "

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The search for evidence continues in Cheetham Hill, Manchester, one of
three areas in the North West where police made a series of arrests after
monitoring suspects' e-mails and internet use
PAUL THOMAS/AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 11, 2009 Saturday

Pakistan: Police deny reports of new terror attack on Lahore training centre

LENGTH: 110 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 10 April: CCPO [Capital City Police Officer] Lahore Pervez Rathor on
Friday [10 April] evening denied the reports of another terrorist attack on
Manawan Police Training Centre saying nothing of the sort has taken place.

In a telephonic interview to a private television channel he said a security
guard saw someone in suspicious condition and shot three shots in air.

To a question he said under the available resources the centre is promptly being
guarded and everything is normal there.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1614gmt
10 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 11, 2009 Saturday

Pakistan: Lahore police chief says India involved in two recent terror attacks

LENGTH: 487 words


Text of report by Arshad Dogar headlined "India involved in Liberty, Manawan
attacks: CCPO" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 11 April

Lahore: Capital City Police Officer [CCPO] Muhammad Pervaiz Rathore has said
that the terrorists involved in the Liberty and the Manawan attacks had clear
links with India, as the police have gathered solid evidence. He was talking to
journalists here on Friday [10 April] after laying the foundation stone of a new
police hospital at the Police Lines, Qila Gujjar Singh.

The CCPO refused to give the details about the breakthrough and solid proof,
saying that the details would be provided by some senior official of the
governments of the Punjab or the Centre. However, he confirmed that the police
and intelligence agencies had grilled the arrested terrorists, reviewed the twin
incidents and got the proof that the arrested terrorists had clear links with
India and its intelligence agency, RAW.

Answering a question, the CCPO said no press conference was scheduled to be held
in the near future in this regard. He said it was enough that a responsible
government official had talked about the links of terrorists involved in the
Liberty and the Manawan attacks with India.

Talking to this correspondent, a senior police officer of the Lahore police,
requesting not to be named, also claimed that the police had been conducting
joint investigations of the arrested terrorists from Manawan and other parts of
the provincial metropolis along with intelligence agencies. During the initial
investigation, the arrested terrorists had shown their links with India and, in
this regard, some solid evidences like telephonic conversation and supply of
sophisticated weapons had also been confirmed.

The officer endorsed the statement of the CCPO, saying that the terrorist links
with India were obvious, adding that Indian diplomatic missions in Afghanistan
were used for this purpose. He said it had also been confirmed that the arrested
terrorists were planted by India, no matter they belonged to Afghanistan or any
other part of the world.

Another senior police officer related to investigations of high profile cases
said that the police and sensitive agencies had also arrested terrorists
involved in the attack on the Sri Lankan team. He said it was already confirmed
that the RAW had planned the attack while the Punjab government and the
additional CID IG had been warned in this regard in writing.

However, another senior police officer of the Lahore police, commenting on the
statement of the CCPO, said there was progress in the investigations of the twin
attacks in Lahore on 3/3 and 30/03 but there was no evidence that could be
presented before the media or made public. He further contended that if
evidences were made public before the interrogation was finalized, the
terrorists at large could escape.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 11 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 13, 2009 Monday

Algerian army captain said killed in "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 74 words


An Algerian army captain has been killed in a "terrorist" attack in western
Algeria, the privately-owned French-language daily newspaper El Watan reported
on 13 April.

The paper quoted a security source as saying that the captain was killed by a
roadside bomb, while an army convoy was carrying out a search operation in the
village of Tagouraya, in Bel Abbes Province (350 km west of Algiers)

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 13 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday

Women being trained in Pakistan for terror attacks - Indian army chief

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 14 April: Indian army chief Gen Deepak Kapoor Tuesday said that women
were being "trained" on the other side of the Line of Control to infiltrate in
to India.

"We have information that women are being trained on the other side to
infiltrate into Jammu and Kashmir," the army chief said, when asked about the
possibility of involvement of women handlers in the Pulwama encounter that ended
Monday with the killing of two militants.

"It is possible that women may be involved in giving directions to the
terrorists," he added.

Kapoor said that army was "fully prepared" if there was any information about
the infiltration of women in the country.

On the issue of infiltration of Taliban in India, Kapoor said, "As far as the
Indian Army is concerned, we have had no trace of Taliban."

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0747gmt 14 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday

India: Mumbai terror attack trial may not begin on 16 April

LENGTH: 450 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 14 April: The much awaited trial in the 26/11 terror attack case may not
begin on Wednesday [15 April] as the special court has to first decide a
petition seeking to debar lawyer Anjali Waghmare from defending the lone
surviving gunman, Mohammed Amir Ajmal Kasab, on grounds of "professional
misconduct".

Waghmare, appointed by the court to defend Kasab, is mired in a controversy
which seems to put her in a tight spot in the wake of allegations that she had
first accepted brief of a witness in this case before deciding to defend Kasab.

Citing public interest, Advocate K. B. N. Lam has moved an application before
the court alleging that Waghmare had accepted the brief from Harishchandra
Shrivardhankar, who was victim of attack by Kasab and his team members at Cama
hospital here on 26 November last year.

He is a prime witness in the case and was seeking compensation from the
government for injuries sustained in his neck during the attack.

According to Lam, Waghmare had sought instructions from this witness and even
signed a Vakalatnama to help him seek compensation. She had kept the court in
dark about this development, Lam alleged.

He contended that Waghmare cannot accept brief of accused Kasab if she had
decided to appear for a witness in the same case.

Replying to Lam's allegation, Waghmare told the court on previous hearing that
she had neither signed any Vakalatnama nor sought instructions from any witness
in this case.

Thereupon, Lam insisted that she give an undertaking to this effect.

Judge M. L. Tahilyani is yet to pass an order in connection with the issue,
which is likely to be a centre of attention during the proceedings in the
special court tomorrow, specially set up in the Arthur Road Central prison,
under high security.

A complaint has also been filed with the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa
against Waghmare alleging that she was guilty of "professional misconduct" by
accepting briefs of witness and accused in the same case.

The complaint filed by Sachin Vaze, former cop and Shiv Sena activist alleged
that she had violated rule 14 of Bar Council of India rules.

"The Bar Council has not yet decided my complaint. I have talked to the witness
who had categorically informed that Waghmare had signed the vakalatnama," Vaze
said and claimed he had seen the document signed by the lawyer.

Earlier, Waghmare had earned the wrath of Shiv Sena activists for accepting the
brief of Kasab after she was appointed by the court to defend him. Party workers
had raised slogans outside her house at Worli, prompting the police to provide
her security.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1051gmt 14 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 14, 2009 Tuesday

Iraqi vice-president warns of planned "terrorist attacks"; update 14 Apr

LENGTH: 1218 words


Within its 1500 and 1700 gmt newscasts on 14 April, Baghdad Al-Iraqiyah
Television in Arabic carries a report citing an International Amnesty report as
accusing the Kurdistan Region government of human rights abuses. Another report
cites the spokesman for the Iraqi government as announcing that 80 per cent of
the Awakening Councils members will be transferred to civilian jobs. Other
reports are carried as well.

Within its 1500 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-  "The Council of Representatives has adjourned its session until next Thursday
[16 April]. First Deputy Speaker Khalid al-Atiyah, who chaired today's session,
urged the deputies to name a new speaker who embodies unity and identical
visions. Noting that the role of the current parliament is different from the
role of the previous parliaments, he stressed the need to upgrade political
performance so that it can serve national interest."

-  "The National Dialogue Council [NDC] has named three compromise candidates to
assume the post of parliament speaker. Khalaf al-Ulayyan, NDC secretary general,
said that the NDC submitted a request to First Deputy Speaker Khalid al-Atiyah
on the nomination of Mustafa al-Hiti and Muhammad Tamim, two members of the
Al-Iraqi Front for National Dialogue, and Taha al-Luhaybi of the Al-Tawafuq
Front's independent bloc, as compromise candidates."

-  Within the same cast, the channel carries recorded interviews with a number
of Iraqi deputies to comment on the draft laws that are still pending.

Deputy Abbas al-Bayati says: "There are certain laws that cannot be passed
except when agreement is reached on very tiny details. This will, definitely,
hamper state performance and public interest."

Deputy Muhammad Khalil al-Sinjari says: "Those supporting or rejecting any draft
law should do so out of interest in the country's top priority."

Deputy Muhammad al-Khaz'ali says: "Such laws cannot be passed unless certain
political agreements that address partisan, rather than national, interests are
reached."

Deputy Iyad al-Samarra'i says: "Administrative and financial corruption would
not have gained ground if it had not been for the weak performance of the
supervisory authorities, including the Council of Representatives, the Audit
Bureau, and the inspectors general."

-  "The Iraqi Government has said that it started transferring 80 per cent of
the members of the Awakening Councils to civilian jobs at the state ministries
and institutions. Iraqi Government Spokesman Ali al-Dabbagh said in a statement
that another decision was made to transfer 20 per cent to the security agencies.
He added that the process will observe the relevant procedures, and went on to
say that the hiring institutions will receive funds to pay those transferred.
Al-Dabbagh said further that the government is committed to paying the wages of
all the Awakening Councils members as scheduled."

-  "Iraqi Vice President Adil Abd-al-Mahdi has warned of secret plans by some
terrorists, who found their way into the Awakening Councils, to launch terrorist
attacks in the country. Abd-al-Mahdi told reporters in Paris that the recent
security operation in Al-Fadl area was carried out in response to accurate
information to the effect that some of them are connected to terrorist groups.
Hailing the Awakening Councils efforts in fighting the terrorist Al-Qa'idah
Organization, he said that the decision to integrate them into the state
agencies was made in recognition of their role in enhancing the rule of the law
throughout the country."

-  "National Security Adviser Muwaffaq al-Rubay'i has held talks with Romanian
Ambassador to Iraq Mihai Stuparu on the withdrawal mechanism of the Romanian
troops serving as part of the Multinational Force in Iraq. According to the
troop withdrawal agreement, the Romanian troops will leave Wasit and Dhi Qar
governorates by the end of next July. Al-Rubay'i urged the Romanian firms to
take part in infrastructure reconstruction projects, especially those dealing
with residential compounds. The 350-man Romanian force is responsible for
logistic, humanitarian, and training tasks."

-  "The members of the new Babil Governorate Council have failed to agree on the
distribution of the local government's posts. A source at the council said that
the political entities reached an initial agreement to assign the council
chairmanship to the Independent Free People List and the post of governor to an
independent technocrat figure."

Within its 1700 gmt newscast, the channel carries the following reports:

-  "Amnesty International has accused the security agencies affiliated with the
Kurdistan Region government of human rights abuses, including torture and
indiscriminate arrests. The organization's report relied on interviews with
citizens from the Region during a study it conducted last year. The organization
accused the internal security agencies, known a s the Asayes h, of carrying out
indiscriminate arrests of certain people, who were tortured later on. Some of
the detainees went missing."

The channel runs a live interview via satellite with Shwan Aziz, minister of
human rights in the Kurdistan Region, to comment on the report.

Asked how accurate the report is, Aziz says: "You have only highlighted the
negative points in the report. But the report mentions some positive points, as
well. The report's introduction, for instance, hails the positive changes in the
Kurdistan Region. In addition, the report made a clear reference to the
noticeable progress in human rights in the Kurdistan Region."

He adds: "The report talks about 2008. We are now in April 2009. They talked
about certain cases. We formed special committees and settled those problems.
Things have changed now. No side, be it the Asayesh or any other agency, can
detain any person in the Region except in accordance with a warrant."

-  "Trade Minister Abd Falah al-Sudani and the Syrian minister of trade and
economy have signed a joint memorandum on technical and economic cooperation.
The memorandum is aimed at activating the previously-signed agreement and
increasing commercial exchange between the two countries."

-  "Abd-al-Samad Sultan, minister of immigration and the displaced, has held
talks with Iranian Interior Minister Ali Kordan on means to implement the joint
memorandum of understanding and the file of the Iraqi refugees in Iran. The
talks also viewed issues of common interest, including the Mojahedin-e Khalq
file."

The channel shows Sultan talking to reporters: "There were questions on the
Mojahedin-e Khalq, or those residing in the Ashraf Camp. This file has nothing
to do with the Ministry of Immigration and the Displaced. Rather, it concerns
the National Security Council and the Ministry of Human Rights. Relevant
committees have already been created to follow the issue up. We told them that
this issue must be settled by the Iraqi Government and that the Ashraf Camp must
be closed down one way or another. But the Iranian side must be ready to grant a
general amnesty."

He adds: "We also talked about the file of 1,000 Iranian Kurds residing in the
Tash Camp in Al-Anbar."

He goes on to say: "Again, a general amnesty must be expeditiously granted to
those refugees so that they can go back home."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 1500-1700 gmt 14 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday

Pakistan: Terror suspect linked to President House attack gets bail

LENGTH: 141 words


Text of report by staff reporter headlined "Terror suspect granted bail"
published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 15 April

Rawalpindi: Anti Terrorism Court No I (ATC- I) on Tuesday [14 April] granted
bail to a terror suspect allegedly involved in plotting attacks on Parliament
Lodges, President House and Ayub National Park. The court, headed by Judge
Chaudhary Habibur Rehman, is trying 11 terror suspects including Khalil Ahmed
Wayin, Nadeem Yousaf, Sikandar Ali to determine their alleged involvement in
three terrorism cases. Cases of plotting attacks on Parliament Lodges and
President House were registered with Secretariat and Abpara Police Stations
respectively while that of a bomb blast in Ayub National Park was registered
with Civil Lines Police Station in 2006.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 15 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            April 15, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Downing Street is an 'agent of terror';
MP launches attack on PM

BYLINE: ROB MERRICK

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 481 words


MERSEY MP Frank Field last night accused Gordon Brown of allowing No.10 to
become "an agent of terror" in the wake of the smear campaign run by his closest
adviser.

The Birkenhead MP said the media operation set up by the Prime Minister was more
concerned with "destroying people" than with giving people positive reasons to
vote Labour.

Mr Field appeared to doubt No.10's protests that Mr Brown knew nothing about the
now-notorious emails sent by the disgraced Damian McBride, saying: "McBride
thought he was doing his master's bidding -he wouldn't have done it otherwise."
And he warned that the scandal had left Labour MPs "staring into the abyss" as
the general election loomed, because it had exposed the Government's chronic
lack of direction.

The comments came as the Conservatives attempted to raise the heat on the Prime
Minister, by urging the Cabinet Secretary to investigate who knew of the plan to
set up the "Red Rag" website to air the salacious allegations.

The letter, sent by Francis Maude, the shadow minister for the Cabinet Office,
read: "Specifically, was the Prime Minister aware of the proposed website or the
concept behind it?" The spotlight turned on Mr Brown after it was revealed that
Derek Draper, the other architect of the smear campaign, joined him at Chequers
late last year - just 12 days after Red Rag was launched.

Tory leader David Cameron also attempted to turn the scandal into an election
issue, by insisting only a change of gover nment could drive such dirty tricks
out of politics.

Mr Cameron suggested Mr Brown bore responsibility even if he was not told of the
specific emails, adding: "He hired these people, he sets the culture, he's the
leader. This gover nment has been in power for too long. They have forgotten
what they are there for." McBride - known as

McPoison - was for ced to resign at the weekend when emails emerged sent from
his No.10 account, suggesting smears to be posted on the Red Rag site.

They included false allegations that Mr Cameron had a sexually transmitted
disease, that Shadow Chancellor George Osborne had had sex and taken drugs with
a prostitute, and that Mersey-born backbencher Nadine Dorries had a onenight
stand with another Tory MP.

Last night, Mr Field, a longtime foe of the Prime Minister, condemned the
depressing sight of "the energy at the heart of No.10 going into trying to smear
the opposition".

And he added: "It has become about controlling the Labour side and, if need be,
becoming an agent of terror and destroying people. That's what is appalling
about the operation. There are two sides to the Prime Minister's character.
There is this very civilised, generous, informed side and there is this other
side - which is about controlling people." The Conservatives also continued to
argue that Mr Brown's handwritten letters expressing "great regret" fell short
of a proper apology..

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  MP Frank Field - has criticised Gordon Brown after the smear campaign
Gordon Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 16, 2009 Thursday

Pakistan: Chinese nationals asked to limit travel due to terror attacks risk

LENGTH: 401 words


Text of report by Mohammad Asghar headlined Chinese nationals asked to limit
movement" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 15 April

Rawalpindi, 14 April: Foreign nationals, especially Chinese, living in
Rawalpindi have been advised to reconsider their need to travel and exercise
caution in their movement due to high threat of terrorist attack and
unpredictable security situation.

The instruction to all the about 175 Chinese nationals residing in Rawalpindi
was given on Tuesday [14 April] after a meeting held by senior police officials
to review the security situation in the city, Dawn has learnt.

The Chinese nationals associated with different projects including Heavy
Mechanical Complex, hospitals, oil fields and restaurants have been advised to
exercise extreme caution while travelling.

Security in the city and around important installations has already been
strengthened following recent terrorist attacks in the twin cities.

The intelligence agencies have been receiving credible reports indicating
terrorists were planning more attacks.

The target could be diplomatic missions, shopping centres, international schools
and other places frequented by the public.

Sources said the foreigners had been advised to avoid local restaurants and
hotels, limit their visit to shopping areas to essential purposes only and
minimise walking in the city. They have also been asked to increase vigilance
and security awareness. The government had already warned foreign missions in
Islamabad of security threats and advised them to register their travel and
contact details with the local police so they could be provided with police
protection.

A senior police official confirmed that the meeting with reference to the
security of Chinese nationals was held.

He said though the number of Chinese living in the city had dropped due to the
recent security situation but the remaining foreigners had been asked to get
police clearance before leaving the city.

He said despite police efforts to provide them protection; they ignore the
security advice and consider it as interference in their privacy.

The police official, however, denied if there was any specific security threat
to the foreigners.

Meanwhile, as part of the strengthened security, the police have launched a
four-hour daily search drive for explosive material with the help of sniffer
dogs.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 15 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 16, 2009 Thursday

Terrorist attacks hit tourism in Yemen Al-Arabiya TV

LENGTH: 501 words


Text of report by Dubai-based, Saudi private capital-funded pan-Arab news
channel Al-Arabiya TV on 15 April

The Yemeni Interior Ministry has announced that it foiled a number of terrorist
operations Al-Qa'idah in Yemen was planning to carry out in Yemen. This came as
part of an intensive campaign which security agencies have launched to hunt down
more than 150 wanted Yemenis and Saudis. The security agencies also intensified
security measures to protect tourism sites across the country.

[Video report by Al-Arabiya's correspondent Humud Munassar] A growing concern
continues to grip the Yemeni security following the explosions that occurred in
Shiban in Hadramaut and Sanaa. The tourism sector has suffered a heavy blow over
the past two years, and the Al-Qa'idah's two recent operations have targeted
tourists and Korean security experts.

[Yemeni Tourism Minister Nabil al-Faqih] The recent terrorist operations that
took place in the Hadramaut Governorate have strongly affected the tourism
sector at its heart, especially since they repeatedly occurred in the past years
and claimed the lives of a number of tourists from different nationalities, be
they from European countries or eastern Asia.

[Munassar] The security agencies affirm that they have recently seized a number
of important documents proving that there are plots to carry our more attacks.
Beside, weapons and equipment that belong to Al-Qa'idah have also being seized.
Security agencies have unprecedentedly heightened patrols and checkpoints and
set up barriers on the streets, especially in tourism sites.

[Sa'id al-Junayhi, expert in Al-Qa'idah affairs] Nowadays, Yemeni security
agencies are credited for achieving an unprecedented success on the ground.

[Muhammad Abu-Talib, deputy director of a tourism agency] Some people could say
that terrorism is an international phenomenon, which is true. However,
foreigners in general and tourists in particular have become main targets in
Yemen. This is the main obstacle the tourism sector in Yemen is facing.

[Munassar] Yemeni security agencies have been launching a wide-scale campaign
for three weeks in quest of 153 wanted individuals, including 85 Saudis, whose
photos and names have been released in a booklet disseminated to different
checkpoints and security stations. In addition, security agencies have been
deployed after they received a tip-off about new plans for terrorist operations.
They also reviewed some of their procedures and mobilized all their powers in
the tourism sites over the last week.

[Al-Faqih] This plan will enhance the security performance and reassure not only
tourists but also Yemeni citizens as well. Undoubtedly, the terrorist operations
that targeted tourists in Hadramaut have forced the Yemeni security agencies to
review their procedures to secure tourism sites and intensify their continued
campaign to hunt down those who are wanted by the security services, be they
Yemenis or foreigners.

Source: Al-Arabiya TV, Dubai, in Arabic 1513 gmt 15 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             April 17, 2009 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Airport workers praised by Smith;
TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 210 words


HOME Secretary Jacqui Smith yesterday praised workers who dealt with the
terrorists who targeted Glasgow Airport, as she visited the scene of the attack
for the first time.

She was shown security improvements introduced after the incident on June 30,
2007, when a Jeep loaded with gas cylinders and petrol crashed into the main
terminal. NHS doctor Bilal Abdulla, 29, was jailed at Woolwich Crown Court in
December for at least 32 years for the terrorist car bomb attacks on London and
Glasgow,  She met police who dealt with the aftermath of the attack, including
constable Stephen Hughes, who was on the scene within seconds. She also chatted
to staff from the UK Border Agency and BAA Glasgow, who helped to evacuate the
airport.

She said: "The terror attack at Glasgow Airport was a stark reminder that we
face a severe threat from terrorism in the UK.

"But it is also a reminder that we have many thousands of highly-trained, brave
and dedicated people working to keep us safe.

"I've met people today who made a real difference on that Saturday afternoon."

Asked whether it was a mistake that Glasgow Airport was the only one in Britain
without an armed guard or armed police that day, she replied: "We always need to
learn the lessons from terrorist attacks "

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2009 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 18, 2009 Saturday

India: Prosecution to examine 109 witnesses in Mumbai terror attacks case

LENGTH: 205 words


Text of unattributed report entitled " Kasab Trial: 109 Witnesses To Be
Examined" published by private Indian channel Zee News on 18 Apr:

Mumbai, 18 April: The prosecution in the Mumbai terror attack case today
informed the special court that it would examine more than 100 witnesses
including those from Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and foreign experts
to establish the complicity of Mohamamed Amir Ajmal Kasab and other accused.

Special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam said about 1,820 witnesses have been
cited in the case but only 109 potential witnesses will be examined.

Nikam gave a graphic account of the evidence gathered by the police against
Kasab and co-accused Fahim Ansari and Sabauddin Ahmed.

Nikam said that five Global Positioning System (GPS) instruments have been
recovered.

"Two GPSs from Taj Mahal hotel, one from Oberoi Hotel and one GPS from Nariman
house were recovered after the terror attack. The instruments have been sent for
analysis to USA," he said.

The prosecutor said that he would rely upon the experts' opinion on the data
pertaining to land and sea routes used by the accused to reach the shores of
Mumbai to commit the terror attacks.

Source: Zee News TV website, New Delhi, in English 18 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 18, 2009 Saturday

US warns defiant Eritrea it risks attack for supporting terrorists

BYLINE: Damien McElroy in Asmara

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 563  words


THE United States has warned Eritrea that it risks American military action for
supporting a Somali terrorist group linked to a plot to assassinate President
Barack Obama.

The Red Sea dictatorship has drawn the wrath of America by backing extremist
Islamic groups in Somalia as part of a proxy war with Ethiopia, its former
ruler.

It champions al-Shabaab, a group linked to al-Qaeda that US intelligence
believes has trained a dozen Americans to carry out attacks in the US.

At the time of Mr Obama's inauguration in January, the FBI issued warnings about
a potential threat from 12 American citizens who had left Africa to infiltrate
the US and had disappeared.

Washington quietly warned Eritrea, a former Italian colony, that it could suffer
the same fate as Taliban-controlled Afghanistan after September 11 if the plot
was carried out. "Eritrea has chosen the wrong path,'' said a source in a
Western capital. "There are consequences for working with al-Shabaab when
President Obama cannot afford to look weak on terrorism by not retaliating if
there is an attack on the homeland.''

But Isaias Afewerki, the Eritrean president, told The Daily Telegraph that he
would continue to oppose a US and British-backed Somali government that declared
al-Shabaab its principal enemy when it took office in February.

While Western governments have growing confidence in the new Somali
administration led by Sheikh Sharif Ahmed, Mr Isaias diminished the new leader
as a stooge. He called for a fresh peace conference in which his allies would be
granted a significant role. "There is no government, there is not even a nation
of Somalia existing,'' he said. "There has to be an alternative. Attempts to
impose this new government on Somalia will not work. Peace is not guaranteed
without a government agreed by all Somalis.''

Mr Isaias has not forsaken his broad opposition to American foreign policy. He
mocked the use of Western military force to target Somali pirates off the Horn
of Africa. "Addressing piracy with military force is not going to work,'' he
said. "Piracy, like famine and drought is a secondary issue.''

Mr Isaias, 63, presides over one of Africa's youngest but most isolated states -
it gained independence from Ethiopia in 1993 - and  relishes his reputation as
an international pariah. He was broadly condemned after Eritrea became the first
country to invite Omar al-Bashir, Sudan's president, to visit after the
International Criminal Court's decision to issue charges for crimes against
humanity in Darfur.

"By being the first country to host General Bashir after he was indicted by the
International Criminal Court, Eritrea put itself on the wrong side of history,''
said Andrew Mitchell, the Conservative's International Development spokesman,
who used a meeting with Mr Isaias in Asmara to lodge a protest against the
visit.

Few see any prospect of Eritrea repairing its relations with the West as long as
it remains on a war footing with Ethiopia. Internal repression has grown
steadily worse as it maintains a standing army of 300,000 from a population of
just over four million.

The regime operates a system of National Service that has been described as a
"giant prison'' for people under 40.  But Mr Isaias made no attempt to deny
practices of modern slavery or torture, claiming the imperative of building a
"small, young'' nation was his overriding concern.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 18, 2009 Saturday

US warns defiant Eritrea it risks attack for supporting terrorists

BYLINE: Damien McElroy in Asmara

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 563  words


THE United States has warned Eritrea that it risks American military action for
supporting a Somali terrorist group linked to a plot to assassinate President
Barack Obama.

The Red Sea dictatorship has drawn the wrath of America by backing extremist
Islamic groups in Somalia as part of a proxy war with Ethiopia, its former
ruler.

It champions al-Shabaab, a group linked to al-Qaeda that US intelligence
believes has trained a dozen Americans to carry out attacks in the US.

At the time of Mr Obama's inauguration in January, the FBI issued warnings about
a potential threat from 12 American citizens who had left Africa to infiltrate
the US and had disappeared.

Washington quietly warned Eritrea, a former Italian colony, that it could suffer
the same fate as Taliban-controlled Afghanistan after September 11 if the plot
was carried out. "Eritrea has chosen the wrong path,'' said a source in a
Western capital. "There are consequences for working with al-Shabaab when
President Obama cannot afford to look weak on terrorism by not retaliating if
there is an attack on the homeland.''

But Isaias Afewerki, the Eritrean president, told The Daily Telegraph that he
would continue to oppose a US and British-backed Somali government that declared
al-Shabaab its principal enemy when it took office in February.

While Western governments have growing confidence in the new Somali
administration led by Sheikh Sharif Ahmed, Mr Isaias diminished the new leader
as a stooge. He called for a fresh peace conference in which his allies would be
granted a significant role. "There is no government, there is not even a nation
of Somalia existing,'' he said. "There has to be an alternative. Attempts to
impose this new government on Somalia will not work. Peace is not guaranteed
without a government agreed by all Somalis.''

Mr Isaias has not forsaken his broad opposition to American foreign policy. He
mocked the use of Western military force to target Somali pirates off the Horn
of Africa. "Addressing piracy with military force is not going to work,'' he
said. "Piracy, like famine and drought is a secondary issue.''

Mr Isaias, 63, presides over one of Africa's youngest but most isolated states -
it gained independence from Ethiopia in 1993 - and  relishes his reputation as
an international pariah. He was broadly condemned after Eritrea became the first
country to invite Omar al-Bashir, Sudan's president, to visit after the
International Criminal Court's decision to issue charges for crimes against
humanity in Darfur.

"By being the first country to host General Bashir after he was indicted by the
International Criminal Court, Eritrea put itself on the wrong side of history,''
said Andrew Mitchell, the Conservative's International Development spokesman,
who used a meeting with Mr Isaias in Asmara to lodge a protest against the
visit.

Few see any prospect of Eritrea repairing its relations with the West as long as
it remains on a war footing with Ethiopia. Internal repression has grown
steadily worse as it maintains a standing army of 300,000 from a population of
just over four million.

The regime operates a system of National Service that has been described as a
"giant prison'' for people under 40.  But Mr Isaias made no attempt to deny
practices of modern slavery or torture, claiming the imperative of building a
"small, young'' nation was his overriding concern.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 20, 2009 Monday

Russian pundit fears attacks on opposition, "political terror"

LENGTH: 1358 words


Text of report by Russian Grani.ru website on 13 April

[Commentary by Dmitriy Shusharin: "The All-Law-Governed State"]

That the political situation in Russia cannot be called stable is perfectly
obvious. The attacks one after another on members of the board of trustees of
the Solidarity movement are entirely sufficient to begin a conversation about
directed political terror. The rumours of preparations for an all-Russia pogrom
on 5 May do not add to our sense of confidence in tomorrow. And after all,
everything cannot be written off to the crisis. That just does not work.

The thing is that the last 10 years have been a time of stability only in the
creative works of agitprop. Back two years ago a survey was done of sensational
murders in the Putin years. It was already obvious then that the "stability
cliche" of Putin's propaganda was no longer operative. But that did not trouble
anyone. The murders had stopped influencing assessments of social stability
because they had become a simple and accessible way of solving problems.

Two conclusions followed from that. First, the political elite has a poorly
developed sense of self-preservation. Second, the threshold of sensitivity to
violence in our country is extremely low. If the reaction of society is
unnoticeable, it should be acknowledged to be tolerant of what is happening.
What is more, in present-day Russia the best way to compromise a person is to
kill him. In the Stalinist years they said, "In our country people are not
jailed without reason,"' and today it is, "In our country people are not
murdered without reason."

The last 10 fat years have proven that there is no direct connection between
economic well-being and social tranquillity. These were the years when the
democratic political system was broken down and tension was deliberately pumped
into society and foreign policy. Therefore the current events are in no way the
result of the crisis; they are the development of past trends in new conditions.

Of course, purely political murders did occur in the fat years (Yandarbiyev,
Litvinenko, Politkovskaya). And today we can put in the same series the murders
of Markelov and the Yamadayev brothers. But all the same, in prosperous times,
beginning with a certain status of the victim, it was not possible to separate
the political murder from the, to put it this way, the economic-crime murder.
This is a distinguishing feature of that model of government-property relations
that is being realized in contemporary Russia.

Such were the murders of the two heads of Federation subjects: even in the case
of Kadyrov Senior, there is no way to separate out the politics from control of
the financial flows. And then, needless to say, there have been almost 20
murders in 2001-2006 on a different level: mayors and vice mayors, deputy
governors and heads of regional governments. And this is not mentioning the
death of Kozlov, deputy chief of the Central Bank, and businessmen of different
levels, in particular six Moscow restaurant owners.

But at the same time, the politicization of violence and the transition to
political terror cannot at all be tied to the economic crisis. If we do not
consider the actions of such a political actor as OMON [special-purpose police],
the count of political murders and attacks on public figures should start with
the death of Yuriy Chervochkin in December 2007. As the authors of the appeal to
President Medvedev, which contains the fullest list of recent terrorist acts,
did.

And here questions arise for many. Two different questions.

First, why appeal to Medvedev? Why not directly to the UN? Is he really
responsible for every hooligan and murderer?

Second, is it worthwhile appealing to Medvedev? He is just the nominal
president. That is one. For two, after all, the complaints to him are against
the man himself.

The first question is very easy to answer. It is necessary to appeal to
Medvedev. He is personally responsible for creating the intolerant atmosphere in
the country and for the growth of political violence. He has not censured a
single act of violence, nor has he responded to a single appeal to him about
this. Moreover, he even found legal grounds for his silence.

All this is called connivance. The scope of responsibility that lies on the
president is directly proportional to the scope of his powers. And that is
enormous. But judging by everything, neither Medvedev nor Putin nor anyone else
close to them knows the word "responsibility." And the main thing is that
ensuring the rights, liberties, and safety of the opposition is his direct job
as guarantor of the Constitution. But judging by what is happening, he is also
unaware of this.

But that is exactly why - I am answering the second question - he should be
reminded of this. That his power is not from Putin and not from God. It is from
the people, including those who do not agree with him. And as for complaining to
him about the man himself, let it look that way.

And that is the state approach and the state position - demand that the
guarantor of the Constitution fulfil it and ensure the personal safety and
political liberties of all citizens of Russia, regardless of their views and the
sympathy or antipathy felt towards them by the people in power.

But the anti-state and anti-Constitutional position is that which is being done
today by the non-institutional youth movements, especially Young Guard of United
Russia (MGYeR), which, like United Russia, claims a status above the state. They
have abandoned their own political actions and disrupt all the rest from
conducting rallies, picketing, and demonstrations. I emphasize: all political
forces. That is, they aggressively obstruct the exercise of constitutional
rights and civil liberties, basing their actions on the anti-state conception of
"partisans of law and order." Those who wish to familiarize themselves with
reports on their hooliganism (not yet pogroms) may go to the [linked] website.

And this is very indicative. After all, this is not a matter of young people -
they are only the actors. Their overseers today have neither the intellectual
nor, apparently, the financial resources for any kind of positive, independent
actions not directed against someone. More accurately, simulating them. The main
task of the current government has been and remains to prevent independent
social and national development. The ideology of the Russian government in
principle is negative, nihilistic.

And this must be remembered whenever attempting to interpret texts coming from
the government. Their essence is exclusively negative. For example, if the
subject is the value of private life and the family, in reality it is a matter
of the undesirability of civil activism and participation in public politics
that is not sanctioned by the state. Patriotism is in reality xenophobia plus
rejection of all discussion of the existing government that is not ecstatic and
emotional. And so and so forth.

Any value proclaimed by agitprop is an anti-value. The current philosophy of the
government rejects the main thing, the individual person and citizen that lies
at the foundation of both state sovereignty and the democratic form of
government. And that is exactly why it is an anti-state ideology.

The present, still at this point slow-moving political terror is a phenomenon of
the same nature as deformation of Russian statehood (laws on elections, parties,
and so on) under the influence of the anti-state ideology of the government
clans. Agitprop reviles "liberalism," "dermocracy" [word-play  - "derma" is
"crap"], and "Western values," while in fact it is a matter of the foundations
of contemporary statehood, the spirit and sense of the state.

And the destruction of the state can be stopped on two conditions. If the
political elite finally acquire an instinct for self-preservation, which they
have not reached yet. And if society sharply raises the threshold of its
sensitivity to violence.

Caution and fastidiousness - that is the beginning of state building, which has
almost turned into state destruction in Russia in recent years.

Source: Grani.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 13 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                             April 20, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Scarred man hunted after sex attack terror

BYLINE: DEBORAH ANDERSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 229 words


A WOMAN was subjected to a terrifying ordeal by a scarred and tattooed attacker.

The 27-year-old was attacked on waste ground in Glasgow city centre.

It happened at around 12.40am on Saturday near Carrick Street, when she was
subjected to what police described as serious indecent assault.

Police have issued a description of the suspect.

The man was white, aged around 20, about 5ft 6, with a tan and short, gelled
hair.

He was well-built, with a scar on the right side of his forehead, a scar on his
stomach and a tattoo on his right arm. He was wearing a white T-shirt, light
blue jeans with cargo pockets and white training shoes.

He was last seen running along Argyle Street near to Cadogan Street.

Detectives at Stewart Street are continuing inquiries to establish the full
circumstances surrounding the incident and are currently examining all CCTV
footage available to them.

Detective Sergeant John Anderson said: "The victim was uninjured but badly
shaken following the attack, and is currently recovering at home. I would urge
anyone who may have been in the area of Carrick Street or elsewhere on Saturday
morning, who may have seen the man or the woman, to contact the police as a
matter of urgency."

Anyone with any information  is asked to contact City Centre Police Office on
telephone number 0141 532 3000 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

Anonymity can be maintained.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2009 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  M2 PressWIRE

                             April 20, 2009 Monday

UK Government: Government announces GBP5m extra funding to protect crowded
places from terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 740 words


extra funding to protect crowded places from terrorist attacks

An extra GBP5million to protect the public from the threat of terrorist
attacks in crowded places was announced by Security Minister Lord West
today.

The funding comes as a public consultation is published on how local
authorities, businesses, the police and communities can work together
to better secure the places where we live, work and play.

New guidance will help local partners understand their roles and the
practical difference they can make to reduce the vulnerability of
public areas like pubs, clubs, shopping centres, sports stadia and
schools.

They will be able to prioritise their work based on advice from police
Counter Terrorism Security Advisers (CTSAs) who for the first time are
carrying out a standardised risk assessment of crowded places across
the country.

Lord West said:

"There is no greater priority for the Government than the safety and
security of the public, and all parts of society have important
contributions to make.

"The review that I conducted into crowded places showed that a
substantial amount of work has been undertaken to increase levels of
protective security in our crowded places. But we need to do more to
turn available advice into proportionate action on the ground.

"This is not a job for the Government or police alone. We will achieve
this by better engaging local authorities, local partners and in
particular businesses to encourage them to implement counter-terrorist
security advice. That is the purpose of our consultation document
'Working Together to Protect Crowded Places'. We are also launching
today practical advice to those involved in planning and building our
crowded places on how to design out vulnerabilities to terrorism." Lord
West launched the crowded places consultation documents at a regional
event in Birmingham to lay out details of the Government's revised
counter terrorism strategy - 'CONTEST'.

The strategy - published on March 24 - builds on the successes of the
existing policy and provides the basis for a coordinated approach to
counter terrorism. It sets out principles which provide the basis for
the Government's response to terrorism.

Notes to editors

1. The Prime Minister announced a review of protective security by Lord
West on 25 July 2007 following the attempted terrorist attacks on
London and Glasgow airport. Lord West's report to Parliament on 14
November 2007 concluded that a new approach was needed to engage local
partnerships in protecting crowded places and to design out
vulnerabilities to terrorism at the planning and design stage.

2. Today's consultation documents deliver upon those commitments, and
reflect work carried out by the Office for Security and Counter
Terrorism (OSCT) in the Home Office in conjunction with a wide range of
partners including representatives of professional bodies such as the
Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA), the Royal Town Planning
Institution (RTPI) and the Commission for Architecture and the Built
Environment (CABE).

3. The Government is making available today a further GBP5 million in
2009/10 to enable local authorities and local partnerships to put into
practice the advice in the consultation documents. This is in addition
to the extra GBP1.5 million already provided to expand the number of
police Counter Terrorism Security Advisers (CTSAs) who are responsible
for assessing risk and providing specialist advice at local level.

5. "Crowded places" include:

* Bars, pubs and night clubs;

* Shopping centres;

* Sports and entertainment stadia;

* Cinemas and theatres;

* Visitor attractions;

* Restaurants and hotels;

* Major events;

* Commercial centres;

* Health sector;

* Education sector; and

* Religious sites/places of worship.

4. Sector-specific guidance is available from the National Counter
Terrorism Security Office (NaCTSO) website ( http://www.nactso.gov.uk
). Building on their existing work, NaCTSO and Counter Terrorism
Security Advisors (CTSA) have already produced and distributed detailed
protective security advice to more than 500 sports stadia, 600 shopping
centres and 10,000 city and town centre bars, pubs and nightclubs.

5. The consultation can be accessed at: http://www.homeoffice.gov.uk/

CONTACT: Home Office
Tel: +44 (0)20 7035 3535

((M2 Communications Ltd disclaims all liability for information
provided within
Further information on
http://www.presswire.net on the world wide web. Inquiries to
info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2009 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday
                              North Wales Edition

I didn't want my kids losing their mum so young;
FAMILY'S ARSON ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: CARL BUTLER

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 330 words


A MUM feared she and her four children would die when an arsonist set fire to
the front door of her home while the family was sleeping inside.

Anita White passed her nine-month-old baby Matthew through an upstairs bedroom
window to firefighters after the blaze trapped her and the children in the
house.

The 32-year-old smelled petrol and spotted smoke seeping in through the front
door after she was alerted by a knock on the door after giving the baby a
bottle, just before 1am yesterday.

She woke her three other young sons Bradley, 11, Jordan, seven, and Lukas five,
and gathered them in the front bedroom until firefighters arrived and put a
ladder up to the window.

Police said the fire at North Street, Shotton, was "suspicious" and launched a
hunt for the arsonist.

Just three days before the blaze at her council home, single mum Ms White had
invited firefighters into her home to give her advice on smoke detectors and
escape plans - advice which saved her family.

"I screamed at my eldest son to get out of bed," she said. "I got the kids into
my bedroom and got a blanket, rolled it up and put it against the door to stop
the smoke. I opened all the windows and waited for the fire brigade."
Firefighters put a ladder up to the front bedroom and Anita handed Matthew out
through the window.

"He was screaming for about an hour later, he was in deep shock," said Anita. "I
was distraught, I held my hands on my head and burst into tears. Why would
someone do something like this? I haven't hurt anyone, I get on with everybody
in the area.

"As soon as the fireman opened my bedroom door they took us straight out." The
family were treated at the scene by paramedics for smoke inhalation.

When she initially saw the smoke she said: "I thought my life was gone." Ms
White lost her own mother at nine. "I didn't want my kids losing their mum so
young. To the fire service I would say thank you very much, if it was not for
them we would be lying in the morgue."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Anita hugs Jordan and (right) the damaged door Jordan, seven, Bradley,
11 and nine-month-old baby Lukas Pics: STACEY ROBERTS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday

Failed city bomb attack used in document that highlights terror threat;
An attempted bomb attack in Exeter has been used to highlight the terror threat
facing the country as ministers announced extra cash to protect public places.

BYLINE: NICK LESTER

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 470 words


A Home Office consultation document on how businesses and agencies, including
the police and community groups, could help the fight against terrorism said
recent cases had shown the extent to which extremists target areas where there
are large numbers of people.

Security minister Lord West said £5m would be made available to local
authorities and agencies across the country to help them work together to ensure
public places were kept safe.

The consultation document was published following a review of terrorism threats
in crowded places, which concluded a new approach was needed to encourage local
partnerships to work together on the issue.

Called "Working Together to Protect Crowded Places", it provides advice on how
such agencies can achieve this.

It said that the UK faces a high level of threat from international terrorism,
and an attack could take place without warning.

The threat level to the UK is currently assessed to be 'severe', meaning that a
terrorist attack is highly likely.

The document said: "In the UK we have seen attacks on public transport and an
airport terminal building, and car bombs left in the vicinity of nightclubs.

"Convicted terrorists have considered such targets as shopping centres,
nightclubs and hotels.

"Recent cases have shown the extent to which terrorists are prepared to target
crowded public places."

It pointed to the failed bomb attack at the Giraffe restaurant in Exeter city
centre last May.

Muslim convert Nicky Reilly was jailed at the Old Bailey in January for life
with a minimum of 18 years for his botched bid to detonate his home-made
explosives, that went off in his hands.

The document states: "Crowded places will remain an attractive target for
terrorists, who have demonstrated that they are likely to target places which
are easily accessible, regularly available and which offer the prospect for an
impact beyond the loss of life alone - for example serious disruption, or a
particular economic/political impact."

The failed Exeter attack also featured recently in a government anti-terror
guide to illustrate the need to be prepared throughout the country to deal with
an attack and to minimise its effects.

Speaking at a Home Office conference Lord West said: "We know people want to
attack public places.

"They want to cause mass casualties of innocent people. We are working to stop
that. There is no greater priority for the Government than the safety and
security of the public and all parts of society have important contributions to
make."

He said there was "absolutely no room for complacency" regarding terrorism.

He added: "We have done lots and achieved lots but there is still a great
threat. It's right to recognise our success...and how far we have come and I
think we have done very well. However, the threat level in this country does
remain severe."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday

Failed city bomb attack used in document that highlights terror threat;
An attempted bomb attack in Exeter has been used to highlight the terror threat
facing the country as ministers announced extra cash to protect public places.

BYLINE: NICK LESTER

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 470 words


A Home Office consultation document on how businesses and agencies, including
the police and community groups, could help the fight against terrorism said
recent cases had shown the extent to which extremists target areas where there
are large numbers of people.

Security minister Lord West said £5m would be made available to local
authorities and agencies across the country to help them work together to ensure
public places were kept safe.

The consultation document was published following a review of terrorism threats
in crowded places, which concluded a new approach was needed to encourage local
partnerships to work together on the issue.

Called "Working Together to Protect Crowded Places", it provides advice on how
such agencies can achieve this.

It said that the UK faces a high level of threat from international terrorism,
and an attack could take place without warning.

The threat level to the UK is currently assessed to be 'severe', meaning that a
terrorist attack is highly likely.

The document said: "In the UK we have seen attacks on public transport and an
airport terminal building, and car bombs left in the vicinity of nightclubs.

"Convicted terrorists have considered such targets as shopping centres,
nightclubs and hotels.

"Recent cases have shown the extent to which terrorists are prepared to target
crowded public places."

It pointed to the failed bomb attack at the Giraffe restaurant in Exeter city
centre last May.

Muslim convert Nicky Reilly was jailed at the Old Bailey in January for life
with a minimum of 18 years for his botched bid to detonate his home-made
explosives, that went off in his hands.

The document states: "Crowded places will remain an attractive target for
terrorists, who have demonstrated that they are likely to target places which
are easily accessible, regularly available and which offer the prospect for an
impact beyond the loss of life alone - for example serious disruption, or a
particular economic/political impact."

The failed Exeter attack also featured recently in a government anti-terror
guide to illustrate the need to be prepared throughout the country to deal with
an attack and to minimise its effects.

Speaking at a Home Office conference Lord West said: "We know people want to
attack public places.

"They want to cause mass casualties of innocent people. We are working to stop
that. There is no greater priority for the Government than the safety and
security of the public and all parts of society have important contributions to
make."

He said there was "absolutely no room for complacency" regarding terrorism.

He added: "We have done lots and achieved lots but there is still a great
threat. It's right to recognise our success...and how far we have come and I
think we have done very well. However, the threat level in this country does
remain severe."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Independent Extra

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Dangerous liaison;
He was a member of Russia's elite security forces. She was a dissident
playwright. Did they get too close - to each other, and the truth behind a
notorious terrorist attack? Shaun Walker reports from Moscow

BYLINE: Shaun Walker

SECTION: INDEPENDENT LIFE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 6640 words


Zherdevka, a dead-end town seven hours' drive from Moscow, is the sort of place
where nothing ever happens. Almost all the cars are old, battered Ladas; the few
cafes reek of cheap frying oil and are populated with friendly but tragic-faced
people ordering large early morning glasses of vodka.

Amid this quiet provincial decay, an extraordinary drama has been unfolding in
recent weeks, unseen to the world. On a bitter April morning under cold grey
skies, two days after the start of the new trial of oligarch Mikhail
Khodorkovsky in Moscow, six defendants were brought, amid heavy security, to a
hearing in Zherdevka's small local courthouse.

Outwardly, the case is nothing special. Five men from Dagestan and Chechnya,
Russia's restive Caucasus regions, are accused together with one ethnic Russian
of an armed robbery which is alleged to have taken place early last year on a
nearby stretch of road. But the Russian man on trial is no ordinary criminal.
His name is Andrei Yakhnev, and until his arrest in early 2008 he was a
high-ranking operative in Russia's secret war on terrorism.

His friends and associates say there's no way he could have done it; his lawyer
says the case against him is absurdly weak. People like Yakhnev are not usually
put on trial for something as trifling as robbery in today's Russia. Even if he
had committed the crime, his superiors, if they wanted to, would have had little
problem in hushing up the whole affair and quietly releasing him. So why has he
been left to rot in a provincial prison, facing a sentence of up to 12 years?
Did he know too many secrets about his superiors? Did he get too close to a
Russian-born British woman who has past links to Vladimir Putin's London-based
enemies, and with whom he was having a cloak-and-dagger love affair?

Khodorkovsky is known across the world, but few people have heard the name of
Andrei Yakhnev. While the trial of the former Yukos oil boss is taking place in
the glare of the world's media, not a single journalist has covered Yakhnev's
trial. But the background to his case reveals just as much about modern Russia
as does the Khodorkovsky trial, providing a rare insight into the world of
Russia's secret services straight from the pages of a John le Carre thriller.
It's a dizzying tale of conspiracy theories, terrorists, secret agents, and a
love affair across boundaries that are not normally crossed.

?????????

The slightly overweight, sleepy-eyed figure, hunched up inside a grey hoodie and
perched on a wooden bench inside the metal cage at Zherdevka's courtroom, might
not seem like a Russian Jason Bourne, but for more than a decade, that's exactly
what he was; an elite field operative fluent in several languages sent on
extremely dangerous top-secret missions.

Andrei Yakhnev was born in the southern Russian city of Mozdok in 1975, and
after four years of training at a top military academy, he joined the Russian
special forces, passing the rigorous selection process for the elite Vityaz unit
- a section of the army specifically devoted to the fight against terrorism and
often thrown into the front line of the Chechen wars on particularly dangerous
missions. It was not possible to meet Yakhnev in prison, but through his lawyer
he provided detailed answers to my questions, written from his cell, and
starting with his biography.

According to Yakhnev's responses, he began his professional career as a deputy
commander, and later commander of a counter-terrorism Vityaz company, thrown
into combat situations with Chechen rebels. By 2001 he had moved into a role in
the Interior Ministry that combined field operations with investigations and
office-based intelligence work, and in 2003 he moved into a newly created
special department of the ministry, T Centre. This department, one of the most
secret in Russia, worked together with the state spy agency -the FSB - and was
at the forefront of preventing terrorist attacks and investigating their
aftermath.

Yakhnev held the rank of major, was due to be promoted to lieutenant-colonel in
2008, and his official title was "senior operative on very important matters",
which, despite the comic book ring to it, meant that he was involved in the most
important Interior Ministry missions. According to Andrei Soldatov, one of the
leading independent experts on the Russian security services, this is the
highest rank that it is possible for a field operative to hold. Yakhnev was a
specialist in the Caucasus regions of Chechnya and Dagestan, the focal points of
Muslim insurgency against Moscow's rule. In his written answers, he specifies
that he also took part in missions in Belarus, Ukraine and Kazakhstan, as well
as other countries "further abroad" which he declined to name. He speaks fluent
English and Chechen.

"The FSB's task is to monitor suspicious activity, whereas the Interior Ministry
had the task of carrying out missions to kill prominent terrorist leaders," says
Soldatov, "special, top-secret groups, known internally by the abbreviation VSOG
[temporary specialised operative groups] would be dispatched on missions to
trouble-spots to eliminate terrorists and fighters. They were so secret that
even the local Interior Ministry people wouldn't know about them, in order to
prevent information leaks."

Yakhnev had an identity card that would send shivers down the spine of any
bribe-hungry traffic cop who happened to stop his BMW. The permit underlined his
importance and said that nobody was allowed to search him or his car. Documents
provided to the court also confirm that his work had given him several different
number plates with which he could disguise his car, and those who know him
suspect that he was given several fake passports on which to travel for missions
abroad.

His job also involved office work and investigative duties, and his friends
painted a picture of a man who was far more than just a hard-nosed killer.

"He is an incredibly intelligent and well-read guy," says Sergei Badamshin, a
Moscow lawyer and friend of Yakhnev's. Most of Yakhnev's friends are too scared
to talk, but Badamshin, a chatty man with a wry sense of humour, agrees to meet
me late in the evening at a north Moscow cafe. The pair met through mutual
acquaintances several years ago, and soon struck up a close friendship. "He made
friends easily; everybody liked him. He was just as able to find a common
language with oligarchs and paupers; generals or privates. Everyone saw him as
an equal; he was just one of those people who you're immediately drawn to."

Yakhnev would disappear on long missions to the Caucasus, sometimes for several
months, but when back in Moscow, the pair would meet up and unwind, hitting bars
and clubs and making the most of the city's nightlife until the sun came up.

"Even when he was off duty, he would always have a weapon on him, a Stechkin
pistol," says Badamshin. "I've only seen the man in a suit about twice, but he'd
always have his gun. He was a real warrior. He didn't talk about the concrete
missions he was on but it was obvious he was involved in big things."

On 19 January 2008, according to Yakhnev's responses, scrawled in the dark of
his prison cell with black ballpoint pen on squared sheets of paper torn from an
exercise book, he returned to Moscow from a mission in Dagestan that had lasted
several months. He was given a week off, but on the night of 21 January was
called in to help with an operation to track down and detain a bomb-maker from
Karachayevo-Cherkessia, one of the southern Russian republics close to Chechnya,
who was hiding in Moscow.

On 25 January, he received a call from Arsen Muidov, the man who acted as his
ears in Moscow's Dagestani community, and whom he had used as an intelligence
source since 1999. Muidov told Yakhnev that he had heard about a huge sum of
money that was due to be transferred from Dagestan to Moscow - 25 million
roubles (£500,000) in cash. This is where accounts diverge. According to the
prosecution in the court case, Yakhnev agreed to become part of a criminal group
with Muidov and others, to steal the money. According to Yakhnev himself, he
agreed to drive to the meeting spot with Muidov and find out who was
transporting the money and why. Because he didn't know where the money was from,
he left a file on his desk at work, explaining where he was going and with what
intelligence. A bit more than 24 hours later, he was under arrest.

"People with his kind of position; people with the documents that he had - those
people don't end up behind bars in Russia," says Badamshin, who, as a lawyer,
knows the country's court system well. Others who specialise in Russia's secret
services agree. Russia's bureaucratic apparatus, and especially its secret
elements, is notoriously corrupt, yet few important officials are held to
account for making money on the side. If a high-ranking officer from the FSB or
other secret services is put on trial in Russia, the reason for the criminal
proceedings is usually to be found somewhere other than in the charges presented
to the court.

So why is Andrei Yakhnev in prison?

?????????

Natalia Pelevine drags on slim cigarettes nervously as she talks. Pelevine is a
garrulous 32-year-old woman with long hair, dyed jet-black, and a penchant for
blood-red lipstick. In a series of meetings at Moscow cafes and restaurants
during the past few months, she recounted her story in full for the first time.

"There was never any intention to go public with this, but it's got to the stage
where there seems little other choice," she says. Tottering in high heels and
wearing a bright purple jacket, she looks every inch the glamorous Russian
woman, but w hen she speaks in English, the words come out in an Anglo-American
lilt. Born in Moscow, she moved to London with her parents at the age of 11,
just before the Soviet Union entered its death-throes. The family stayed in
Britain, and Pelevine started a career as an actress, but returned frequently to
Russia. She knew many Chechens in Moscow and followed with horror the Chechen
wars of the 1990s. When Chechen rebels laid siege to a Moscow theatre in October
2002, she knew straight away that she wanted to write a play about it.

The Nord Ost siege, when hundreds of theatregoers were taken hostage by a
heavily-armed gang of Chechens, was among the darkest hours of Vladimir Putin's
eight-year presidency. The Russians pumped toxic gas into the theatre and thus
avoided any explosions, but at least 130 hostages died, mostly because they were
given no antidote to the gas. The Russian authorities presented the operation as
a victory, but many survivors were angry that no proper investigation was ever
held into the decisions taken to storm the theatre, and the apparent
unpreparedness to deal with people who had been incapacitated by the gas.

Pelevine spent time in Moscow interviewing survivors of the attack and their
relatives, making notes on how it had felt to be inside the theatre during the
57 hours of the siege. She met several times with Anna Politkovskaya, an
investigative journalist who had written many articles on the siege and its
aftermath. Wanting to know more about the decisions that had led to the storming
of the theatre, she tried to set up interviews with people from the secret
services who had been involved.

In the spring of 2005, she managed to secure a meeting with three retired FSB
colonels who had been in the command centre during the siege. They met with
Pelevine in the cafeteria of the Moscow city parliament, where one of the
colonels, by then retired, had become an MP.

"They were very rude to me, asked me what I was trying to do by digging into
this, and gave me absolutely nothing," says Pelevine. "It was more like them
interviewing me than the other way round."

Indeed, along with a series of suspicious apartment block explosions in 1999
that preceded the second Chechen war and Vladimir Putin's rise to power, the
events surrounding Nord Ost have always been something of a no-go area. The
government investigation was cursory, and independent journalists who tried to
get to the bottom of the story had a habit of meeting sticky ends.

Many things about the Nord Ost siege didn't seem to make sense. Why did the
terrorists not blow themselves up when they realised that the theatre was being
gassed? They had time before the deadly gas took effect to go out in a blaze of
glory. Why did the special forces storming the building have an order to shoot
to kill, not leaving a single terrorist alive for questioning? Why did the
testimony from survivors suggest that the terrorists did not seem nervous and
did not seem like they were ready to die - chatting to each other and painting
their nails?

Six months after the siege, Anna Politkovskaya met with a Chechen man, Khanpash
Terkibayev, who claimed that he had been part of the group that had staged the
siege but had left before the storming of the theatre started. Terkibayev was a
shadowy figure who had close links both to Chechen separatists and to top
Kremlin officials, on occasion even travelling to Europe in official Russian
delegations. Politkovskaya was certain that the Terkibayev story proved that at
some level, elements in the secret services collaborated with the terrorists to
abet the theatre siege.

Not long before Politkovskaya met with Terkibayev, the Russian politician Sergei
Yushenkov was shot dead in Moscow. Alexander Litvinenko, a former FSB agent by
then living in London, claimed to have passed a dossier on Terkibayev on to
Yushenkov just a few days before his murder. Terkibayev died in a car crash in
Chechnya in 2004. Politkovskaya was gunned down in the entrance of her apartment
block in late 2006, just a few weeks before Litvinenko was poisoned with
polonium and died in London.

There is no evidence that any of these deaths were related to Nord Ost
investigations; Litvinenko and Politkovskaya were mired in a whole range of
controversial topics, and there are persuasive alternative versions for
Yushenkov's death. Terkibayev himself claimed that Politkovskaya had made the
story up. Others note that the authorities were very sensitive about the details
of the military operation at the theatre, keen to avoid what they saw as a
victory being presented as a disaster; but most observers doubt that the FSB
could have been involved in the preparations: "I never saw any evidence that
would suggest the FSB was involved in any way with the organisation of Nord
Ost," says Andrei Soldatov.

But what is certain is that nobody has ever carried out a proper independent
investigation into what happened. Pelevine wanted to change that. In addition to
her play, she began to plan a book about the events. "The more I investigated
it, the more I realised it wasn't how it was made out to be," she says.

?????????

A contact in Moscow suggested that he might know someone who knew someone who
had been involved in the government response to the siege. Phone calls were
made, and a meeting place was agreed. After midnight one night in June 2005,
says Pelevine, she was driven for about 40 minutes out of Moscow through
darkened backstreets to a small restaurant tucked away in a wooded clearing.
There were several tables outside, but no other people in sight. She sat down to
wait with her contact, and after some time another car arrived and a big sturdy
man with cropped sandy hair sat down across from her. It was Andrei Yakhnev.

He began to speak, quietly, without looking her in the eye. At that first
meeting he didn't give away any major secrets about the way that the authorities
handled Nord Ost, but he told her his side of the story with an honesty she
hadn't encountered from anyone else who had been involved on the government
side. Yakhnev had been in the command centre for part of the siege, and had
entered the theatre during the storming. He had also been involved in the
investigations that followed.

His story rang true and tallied with stories of victims of the siege, and in
contrast to the dour FSB colonels she had questioned previously, Yakhnev was
clearly emotionally involved in the tragedy and personally affected by it. Some
of the things he told her seemed to reinforce suspicions that had been forming
in her mind about what had really happened at Nord Ost.

The meeting moved Pelevine to tears, and she asked if she might take his contact
number. He agreed, and the two said their goodbyes.

After a decent period of time had elapsed, she called Yakhnev and asked if they
might meet again. The two began to meet on a regular basis and a friendship
blossomed, based on mutual interests to start with, which in time turned into a
romance. They spoke on the phone regularly but saw each other rarely. Pelevine
was often away, in London or New York, and Yakhnev would go dark for days or
weeks on end when he was out of Moscow on a mission. When they both happened to
be in Moscow at the same time, he would call her and name a time and central
Moscow location where they should meet. He would pick her up in his car and
they'd spend a few hours together.

There was no doubt that the Russian authorities knew about the relationship
between Andrei Yakhnev and Natalia Pelevine. They also almost certainly knew
that Pelevine had links to figures in London that were committed to the
overthrow of the Russian regime. Pelevine was close to many in the anti-Kremlin
circle of Russian emigres in the British capital, led by Boris Berezovsky, the
oligarch who helped raise Putin to the presidency but then fell out of favour
and fled. It was Akhmed Zakayev, the former Chechen rebel wanted by Moscow and
currently living in Britain, who first introduced her to the group, after she
had contacted him to talk about the play she was writing. Moscow has repeatedly
demanded that Britain extradite both Berezovsky and Zakayev to face criminal
proceedings in Russia, but the requests have been refused.

With Zakayev, Pelevine has remained on friendly terms, but she fell out with
Berezovsky and his inner circle. "I believe his fight is all about personal
vengeance rather than a desire to make this country better," she says.
(Berezovsky was asked to comment on his relations with Pelevine through a
London-based spokesman but did not respond.) The final break, says Pelevine,
came when Alexander Litvinenko, with whom she had been acquainted, was murdered
in London in late 2006. Pelevine suspected that there might be more to the story
than met the eye at first glance.

But the falling-out was far in the future when Pelevine and Yakhnev's
relationship started. The security services would have kept a close watch on a
man in Yakhnev's position, and they certainly would have known about Pelevine
and her links to Berezovsky. She was just the sort of person that the FSB would
want to keep away from someone like Yakhnev. Why, then, did they allow the
meetings to continue? It is possible that the Russian authorities told Yakhnev
to keep the relationship going, curious to see if they had found a link to
Berezovsky that could be exploited.

Amid what seemed to be the start of a serious relationship, both Pelevine and
Yakhnev were always, at least partially, on their guard, never knowing if the
other might have ulterior motives. Yakhnev may have suspected that Pelevine was
a honeytrap, working for MI6 or Berezovsky and keen to glean as much information
from him as possible not for the innocent project of writing a play about Nord
Ost, but for darker purposes. Pelevine didn't know if Yakhnev had been told by
his superiors to work her as a potential source on Berezovsky and Zakayev. The
bizarre relationship continued. They seemed to be falling in love but, for
obvious reasons, neither could fully trust the other.

Early one evening in the summer of 2006, according to Pelevine, Yakhnev called
her and said they needed to meet at the Metropole, a swish, palatial hotel, a
stone's throw from the Lubyanka, the infamous building where the KGB performed
interrogations and executions, and which now serves as the headquarters of the
FSB. He led her into the casino, and sat her down at a table in a side-bar where
a man was reading a copy of Kommersant, one of Russia's leading daily
newspapers. At several of the other tables, lone men were seated, and in the
corner some musicians were playing mood music.

"Can we really talk here, with all these people around?" she asked him.

"It's OK, everyone here is one of us," replied Yakhnev, "Except the musicians."
He gave a little laugh. "There is someone I need you to meet."

The third person at the table lowered his newspaper and introduced himself as a
general lieutenant of the FSB, one of the top anti-terrorism officers in
Russia's sprawling spy network. Yakhnev left. The general was drinking a coffee,
and Pelevine ordered a white wine to calm her nerves.

"The whole set-up was ridiculous, like something out of a movie," recalls
Pelevine. "He asked me, in a very jokey way, how long I had been working for
MI6. I didn't know what to say, so I replied, in the same manner, that I'd been
recruited while still at school." The conversation continued in a similar vein,
with barbs disguised as jokes. She asked if he wanted to recruit her; he
responded that they didn't just recruit anyone, but that she might just pass the
test. He then asked if she realised the significance of being recorded as having
met with him, and soon after told her to leave. She departed the meeting
confused, scared, and furious with Yakhnev, and quickly left Moscow for London.

Something about the way they interacted with each other felt genuine, however,
and the phone conversations, and then real-life meetings soon resumed. They had
the same sporadic, hastily-arranged character as before. The meetings were
intense, although it was rare that they could really be alone.

"The sexual life was pretty much non-existent; things only happened on a few
occasions," says Pelevine. "He twice took me back to a flat that was extremely
basic, with a bed, a small kitchen and an empty fridge. It was a place to
recharge batteries, not to live." She never saw his real home or even knew where
it was, nor did she even know his surname or how old he was. Those were
questions that couldn't be asked.

What was clear was that they had found common ground. For Pelevine, it was
refreshing to meet someone in Yakhnev's position who was so open and thoughtful
about the consequences of his work. For Yakhnev, many of Pelevine's complaints
about Russian policy in the Caucasus fell on understanding ears.

"I disagreed on the most fundamental issues," he writes, in response to the
question of whether he approved of the way Russia was fighting against
terrorism. "I always said that the people who participated in illegal terrorist
forces in Chechnya and Dagestan did so for various reasons, and the same with
those who supported them. I constantly told my superiors that to solve these
problems we needed not punitive measures, but socio-economic ones. I also tried
to explain that terrorists in Russia weren't financed from abroad, but by local
political clans fighting for power in the north Caucasus republics, and wanting
to secure power, administrative resources, and federal financing for
themselves." In short, he completely disagreed with the official Russian line on
terror in the Caucasus - that it was part of the international jihad movement
and needed to be crushed mercilessly. He also noted with distaste that some of
the generals who were supposed to be fighting terrorism seemed more concerned
with enriching themselves than with protecting Russia's security.

One night in November 2007, the pair of them went for dinner at a restaurant
near the Luzhniki Stadium in the south-west of Moscow. Yakhnev kept getting
calls on his mobile phone and eventually they had to interrupt the meal and
leave; it seemed he was being called onto a mission.

"He drove me back home, and as we were driving down Prospekt Mira, on the way to
my apartment, he said, 'I'm thinking about leaving the service'," remembers
Pelevine. "I said 'What? How is that even possible?' He asked me if I'd still be
interested in him if he wasn't an agent, and I said that of course I would."
Yakhnev dropped Pelevine off at her apartment, and disappeared off into the
night, as he always did. It was the last time she saw him as a free man.

Aside from the research project about Nord Ost that had been germinating in
Pelevine's mind, there was the initial undertaking that had got her interested
in the theatre siege - the play. With the script finished in 2005, she asked
around her friends in the Moscow theatre world, to see if it was possible to
stage a production in the city. The script was controversial, with masked gunmen
marauding down the aisles, and actors playing hostages scattered around the
audience. Many people she spoke to thought it was a brave idea, but nobody
wanted anything to do with it. Putting on a play like this in Russia, so soon
after the siege, seemed like a dangerous idea. In the end, the play opened for a
short run at the small New End Theatre in Hampstead, London, in the autumn of
2006. It received lukewarm reviews from British critics, but some of the Russian
siege survivors flew to London for the premiere and were impressed. Coming from
a country that tried its hardest to cover up the circumstances of the rescue
operation, the victims were supportive of anything that would help keep the
tragic events in the limelight.

Later, just before the arrest of Yakhnev, Pelevine heard through a friend that a
Dagestani theatre director was interested to stage the play in Makhachkala, the
capital of Dagestan and one of the most dangerous cities in Russia, where
shoot-outs between Russian forces and militants occur on a frequent basis, and
where some of Yakhnev's trickiest missions had been. It was a bold move to put
on a play with this subject matter in such a place, but after negotiations,
Pelevine wrote a Russian translation of the script and rehearsals began in
earnest early in 2008, around the time of Yakhnev's arrest.

On 4 April, the day of the premiere, the cast and crew were told at the last
minute that the president of Dagestan, Mukhu Aliyev, would be attending the
performance with his entourage. Hasty negotiations were made for a
post-performance banquet, and a clever individual thought to inform the
president's security detail that the play featured actors dressed as terrorists.
"Lucky you told us," said one, "or we would have shot them dead immediately."

For the premiere, Pelevine had flown into the city, which sits on the Caspian
Sea, near the majestic peaks and valleys of the Caucasus, home to the militants
whom Yakhnev had been tasked to exterminate. At 5.30pm, the performance started.
At 7pm the curtain fell; videos of the performance show some of the audience in
tears and many giving a standing ovation. But while the audience applauded, the
Dagestani president got up and swept out of the theatre with his entourage of
government officials and security. Shortly afterwards, the director got a phone
call saying that the play should never be put on again. President Aliyev claimed
the play glorified terrorism, and accused Pelevine of being part of a
London-based plot to destabilise Dagestan.

Then, just minutes after the curtain fell on the play in Russia for the first
and only time, an explosion tore through Pelevine's Moscow apartment block.

"I was on the phone to friends at Novaya Gazeta, telling them about what had
happened with the play. They knew roughly where I lived, and asked what street
my apartment was on. I told them. They asked the number of the apartment block.
I told them. 'There's just been a bomb,' they said."

An explosion had ripped through neighbouring apartments, killing three and
causing huge damage to the home of Pelevine's grandparents, where she stayed
when she was in Moscow. (Her Russian passport bears a stamp stating that she is
registered at that address.) Pelevine's grandparents were not injured. The city
authorities initially claimed there had been a gas explosion; later it was
revealed that it had indeed been a bomb. Two of her dead neighbours were linked
with a far-right nationalist group whom, the authorities suggested, might have
been trying to make an explosive device which had detonated by accident, killing
them. Although the Russian far right does not have a history of using bombs,
preferring fists and knives, this is the version of events that has been
sustained until now, with no proper investigation into the incident.

As so often in Russia with events such as these, there is no way of knowing if
there was more to the incident than the official explanation suggests. But bombs
do not explode with regularity in Moscow; and the timing was suspicious, to say
the least. A huge explosion, metres away from Pelevine's grandparents, just
minutes after the curtain had fallen on the first night of her play; it seemed
like a sign from someone that she should shut up and go away.

?????????

I first met Natalia Pelevine almost exactly a year ago. I had heard about the
fate of her play in Dagestan and asked to meet her to discuss the details for an
article about the play which later appeared in The Independent. We stayed in
touch, and over time, she slowly began to reveal details about her relationship
with Yakhnev and his arrest. To start with, it sounded fantastical, but the more
I heard the more interested I became, and in early April I decided to travel to
Zherdevka to see the court case for myself.

I hitched a ride with Vladimir Samarin, the lawyer representing Yakhnev, and we
left Moscow the morning before the hearing in his blue Land Rover. As we drove
south-east, through a monotonous pancake-flat landscape of birch trees sprouting
like stubble from the last vestiges of the winter snow, he filled me in on the
details of the trial so far.

Samarin, a wiry diminutive man, is an immensely likeable character, who likes to
pepper his speech with jokey non-sequiturs. After years in the Soviet navy,
working in underwater special operations in the Pacific, he trained as a lawyer
in the 1990s, and appears to have struck up a personal bond with Yakhnev during
his time on the case.

We arrived in Tambov, the drab regional capital, famous for little except
creating one of Russia's most unpleasant mafia groupings, late in the afternoon.
The pre-trial detention centre where Yakhnev was being held was here, and
Samarin left me with a bowl of borscht in a cafe across the road while he went
off to meet his client. While I slurped down the purple soup, a blonde girl in
knee-high boots sung saccharine pop songs to the accompaniment of a Casio
keyboard, and a few bored looking prostitutes sipped beers at the bar.

Early the next morning, we set off on the two-hour drive from Tambov to
Zherdevka. En route, we passed the place where the armed robbery is meant to
have taken place, a nondescript petrol station with a few blue-painted pumps and
a small shop, just before the turn-off from the main road to Zherdevka. I would
later receive answers from Yakhnev explaining exactly how he'd ended up here.

The prosecution claims that a man in the Dagestan town of Kaspiisk, Ali
Magomedov, had found out that two locals were due to transport a large sum of
cash to Moscow. He called his friend Arsen Muidov in Moscow, and suggested that
they rob the two men during their journey. Muidov recruited Yakhnev into the
scheme to give them official cover, and another three men also joined the plot.
Late on the night of 26 January 2008, Magomedov spotted the two men leaving, and
called Muidov, who set out from Moscow with Yakhnev. The two cars met near the
turnoff to Zherdevka, about halfway between Moscow and Dagestan, and agreed they
would ambush the third car at a nearby petrol station. When the car approached,
they cut off its path, shot at the car a few times, took the money and drove
off.

Yakhnev tells it differently. Arsen Muidov was a trusted contact who had worked
with him since 1999 and provided many leads.

"In 2007 he [Muidov] introduced me to Ali Magomedov, resident of Kaspiisk, who
was in Moscow at the time," writes Yakhnev. "During one of my trips to Dagestan
in the summer of 2007 I met with Ali in Makhachkala. I decided to recruit him as
an information source. After I became convinced of his loyalty to the federal
forces, and the fight against the rebel forces, I started getting him involved."

Magomedov became part of the shadowy network of agents and informers that secret
services used to gather information in the north Caucasus, acting as a driver
for Yakhnev on occasion and providing information on terrorist plots against the
government.

When he met Muidov on 25 January, says Yakhnev, Muidov mentioned Magomedov's
tip-off about the money being transferred and asked him to go along with him.
Muidov claimed not to know where the money was from or who it belonged to, but
asked Yakhnev to help.

"What is happening in the Caucasus is a war," says Samarin, Yakhnev's lawyer.
"In a war you have to trust the people you are working with, and Muidov and
Magomedov were trusted contacts."

"I decided to go with him because he asked me as a friend," continues Yakhnev.
"He didn't tell me what was going to happen, and I don't think he knew himself.
One of the reasons for me going was to find out who was transporting this kind
of money and with what purpose. It was professional interest."

Nevertheless, it all sounded very suspicious, so Yakhnev left a file on his desk
explaining where he was going. He went out drinking with Sergei Badamshin and a
couple of other friends, and late the next night, the call came from Magomedov,
and so he left Moscow with Muidov and one of the latter's Chechen acquaintances,
and began the drive south towards the Caucasus.

He claims that during the incident, he did not even get out of his BMW or know
what was happening. Muidov returned with the money and they began to drive
towards Moscow. The car was apprehended not long after. The police who stopped
the vehicle, terrified when they saw his documents and realised who he was, told
him to wait while they radioed Moscow. From somewhere high up, the order came to
ignore Yakhnev's right not to be searched and arrest him.

Yakhnev's version of events does sound odd, but it was exactly this sort of
illicit money transfer that funded the terrorism that it was his job to prevent.
From the rumours I had heard about the corrupt activities of Russia's secret
services, it struck me that there were much easier and safer ways for a man in
Yakhnev's position who wanted to make money on the side to do so than by driving
hours through the night to ambush some unknown Dagestanis.

Yakhnev himself was puzzled by the accusations, says Samarin. "He said to me,
'If I'd wanted to steal the money, it would have been so easy. I would have just
showed my papers to any traffic police post; the policemen there would have been
obliged to obey my commands, and stop the car, and I could have searched it and
walked off with the money without firing a shot.'" When Yakhnev later said that
everything would be cleared up if only his employers could produce the report he
claims to have written before leaving Moscow, he was told that no such report
was found - it had gone missing. He also offered to take a lie-detector test,
something that is allowed in some cases with special operatives, but his request
was declined.

I asked him what he himself thought was behind his detention.

"Given the fact that I was a high-class specialist in my field, with huge
operative abilities and contacts, I was able to talk with the leadership as an
equal, and always give my opinion. When everything was OK, they were forced to
deal with me being inconvenient, but when this happened, they decided to get
their own back, and pretended that this employee never existed. At work, people
were told that I had been the boss of a group that carried out contract
killings, and had 10 or 20 murders on my hands."

When I tried to make contact with some of Yakhnev's former colleagues, I was
told that nobody was willing to talk to me, even anonymously.

"Contact with my former colleagues has been completely cut off," writes Yakhnev.
"They were threatened with being fired and put in prison. The DSB [internal
security department] got to work on those who were particularly 'eager' to
help."

"Acquaintances who enquired in Tambov about getting involved in the case were
told to stay away," says Sergei Badamshin. "People have been told in Tambov that
if they so much as take an interest in the case, they will meet with the same
fate."

?????????

The courthouse was surrounded by police wielding Kalashnikovs, and riot police
in their sky-blue fatigues. One did rounds of the building with a sniffer dog.
Inside the small courtroom, eight policemen stood watch, two of them holding
automatic weapons. The six accused were led into the courtroom handcuffed,
before being padlocked inside a metal barred cage and the handcuffs removed.
Yakhnev sat squashed together with the five Caucasians also accused; there was
only one other person sitting on the public benches.

The court hearing I attended revolved around a video recording of the
interrogation of Magomedov, Yakhnev's contact and also on trial, shortly after
he had been arrested. The Dagestani, who appears not to fully understand
Russian, is asked about the robbery. The interlocutor, off camera, peppers his
sentences with swear words, and tells the Dagestani that he is "100 per cent -
no, 1,055 per cent - sure that you have committed other crimes which we"ll find
out about," so he better co-operate with this case. The name of Yakhnev is
mentioned by the investigator several times, suggesting what he might have been
doing, but the Dagestani doesn't admit to anything or implicate Yakhnev. The
investigator doesn't ask about any of the others involved.

Strangely, the video is being offered not by the defence as an example of how
absurd the investigation was, but by the prosecution as a key piece of evidence.
Samarin stands up and argues that, given the video recording was made without
prior authorisation, it is inadmissible as evidence anyway. The trial is
adjourned for 10 days in order for the defence to prepare a statement to this
effect, and the suspects are led out of the courtroom and into a police bus to
make the two-hour journey back to the prison in Tambov.

"It's pretty obvious your Yakhnev was set up," says one of the local lawyers
defending the other accused, as an aside to Samarin as they all leave the
courtroom.

The presiding judge, says Samarin, has so far behaved impeccably, treating the
defence arguments with respect and following all due procedures, far more than
is common at Moscow courts. At a subsequent hearing, the video evidence was duly
disqualified. But nevertheless, he doubts that this will lead to an acquittal.

"You have to remember that in Russia, only 0.8 per cent of cases end in
acquittals," he says. Once a case has been brought to court, however weak the
evidence may appear, it's as good as over.

?????????

It's a fact that the Nord Ost siege is one of the most sensitive episodes in
recent Russian history, and there are many powerful people who would be anxious
to keep a lid on what really happened. So the kind of employee who told the
truth about the nature of terrorism in the Caucasus, however useful he was in
the field, may well have become regarded as an inconvenience.

In the end, the case throws up far more questions than it answers. It's
impossible to know for sure if Andrei Yakhnev is facing jail because of his
relationship with Pelevine, because of the things he told her, because of his
attempts to stand up against his shadowy masters - or simply because he knew too
much. And that, above all, is a dangerous thing in today's Russia.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IE


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday

Failed bomb attack used to inform Home Office advice;
An attempted bomb attack in Exeter has been used to highlight the terror threat
facing the country as ministers announced extra cash to protect crowded public
places.

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 334 words


A Home Office consultation document providing advice on how businesses and local
agencies, including the police and community groups, could help in the fight
against terrorism said recent cases had shown the extent to which extremists
were prepared to target areas where there are large numbers of people.

Security minister Lord West said the additional £5 million in funding would be
made available to local authorities and agencies across the country to help them
work together to ensure public places were kept safe.

The document was published following a review of terrorism threats in crowded
places, which concluded that a new approach was needed to encourage partnerships
to work to protect these locations.

Entitled Working Together to Protect Crowded Places, it provides advice on how
such agencies can achieve this.

It said the UK faces a high level of threat from international terrorism, and an
attack could take place without warning.

The threat level to the UK is currently assessed to be "severe", meaning that a
terrorist attack is highly likely.

The document said: "In the UK we have seen attacks on public transport and an
airport terminal building, and car bombs left in the vicinity of nightclubs.

"Convicted terrorists have considered such targets as shopping centres,
nightclubs and hotels. Recent cases have shown the extent to which terrorists
are prepared to target crowded places."

The document pointed to the failed bomb attack at the Giraffe restaurant in
Exeter city centre last May. Muslim convert Nicky Reilly was jailed at the Old
Bailey in January for life with a minimum of 18 years for his botched bid to
detonate his homemade explosive, which went off in his hands.

The failed Exeter attack also featured recently in a government anti-terror
guide to illustrate the need to be prepared throughout the country to deal with
an attack and to minimise its effects.

Speaking at a Home Office conference, Lord West said there was "absolutely no
room for complacency" regarding terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday

Failed bomb attack used to inform Home Office advice;
An attempted bomb attack in Exeter has been used to highlight the terror threat
facing the country as ministers announced extra cash to protect crowded public
places.

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 334 words


A Home Office consultation document providing advice on how businesses and local
agencies, including the police and community groups, could help in the fight
against terrorism said recent cases had shown the extent to which extremists
were prepared to target areas where there are large numbers of people.

Security minister Lord West said the additional £5 million in funding would be
made available to local authorities and agencies across the country to help them
work together to ensure public places were kept safe.

The document was published following a review of terrorism threats in crowded
places, which concluded that a new approach was needed to encourage partnerships
to work to protect these locations.

Entitled Working Together to Protect Crowded Places, it provides advice on how
such agencies can achieve this.

It said the UK faces a high level of threat from international terrorism, and an
attack could take place without warning.

The threat level to the UK is currently assessed to be "severe", meaning that a
terrorist attack is highly likely.

The document said: "In the UK we have seen attacks on public transport and an
airport terminal building, and car bombs left in the vicinity of nightclubs.

"Convicted terrorists have considered such targets as shopping centres,
nightclubs and hotels. Recent cases have shown the extent to which terrorists
are prepared to target crowded places."

The document pointed to the failed bomb attack at the Giraffe restaurant in
Exeter city centre last May. Muslim convert Nicky Reilly was jailed at the Old
Bailey in January for life with a minimum of 18 years for his botched bid to
detonate his homemade explosive, which went off in his hands.

The failed Exeter attack also featured recently in a government anti-terror
guide to illustrate the need to be prepared throughout the country to deal with
an attack and to minimise its effects.

Speaking at a Home Office conference, Lord West said there was "absolutely no
room for complacency" regarding terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             April 21, 2009 Tuesday

Failed bomb attack used to inform Home Office advice;
An attempted bomb attack in Exeter has been used to highlight the terror threat
facing the country as ministers announced extra cash to protect crowded public
places.

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 334 words


A Home Office consultation document providing advice on how businesses and local
agencies, including the police and community groups, could help in the fight
against terrorism said recent cases had shown the extent to which extremists
were prepared to target areas where there are large numbers of people.

Security minister Lord West said the additional £5 million in funding would be
made available to local authorities and agencies across the country to help them
work together to ensure public places were kept safe.

The document was published following a review of terrorism threats in crowded
places, which concluded that a new approach was needed to encourage partnerships
to work to protect these locations.

Entitled Working Together to Protect Crowded Places, it provides advice on how
such agencies can achieve this.

It said the UK faces a high level of threat from international terrorism, and an
attack could take place without warning.

The threat level to the UK is currently assessed to be "severe", meaning that a
terrorist attack is highly likely.

The document said: "In the UK we have seen attacks on public transport and an
airport terminal building, and car bombs left in the vicinity of nightclubs.

"Convicted terrorists have considered such targets as shopping centres,
nightclubs and hotels. Recent cases have shown the extent to which terrorists
are prepared to target crowded places."

The document pointed to the failed bomb attack at the Giraffe restaurant in
Exeter city centre last May. Muslim convert Nicky Reilly was jailed at the Old
Bailey in January for life with a minimum of 18 years for his botched bid to
detonate his homemade explosive, which went off in his hands.

The failed Exeter attack also featured recently in a government anti-terror
guide to illustrate the need to be prepared throughout the country to deal with
an attack and to minimise its effects.

Speaking at a Home Office conference, Lord West said there was "absolutely no
room for complacency" regarding terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 22, 2009 Wednesday

Algerian terrorist attack on Municipal Guard detachment foiled - paper

LENGTH: 251 words


Excerpt from report by L. Oubira headlined "Adekar (Bejaia): Terrorist attack on
the Municipal Guard foiled", published by Algerian newspaper Liberte website on
22 April

An aborted attack on a detachment from the municipal guard was reported the day
before yesterday [20 April] in the evening, starting at 1930 [local time] in the
Adekar region. The attack was carried out against elements from the municipal
police in the spot known as Laazib-El Hadj located on Provincial Road [CW] 14,
which connects National Road [RN] 12 in the municipality of Adekar to that of
Beni K'sila.

The assault, according to matching accounts, was mounted at nightfall by a group
of terrorists of undetermined number. Despite the surprise effect, fortunately
no victim had to be reported unless it was a fracture to the ankle of a
municipal guard who fell following a panicked movement. The wounded man was
evacuated to the Adekar Polyclinic before being transferred to the Sidi-Aich
Hospital.

It was thanks to the response by the municipal guards, who maintained their
composure, and the quick intervention by the soldiers stationed not far from
there that the worst was avoided. This was the third attack by the terrorists
from the Salafi Group for Call and Combat [GSPC; the group now known as
Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb, or AQLIM] in this region in the
space of six days. [Passage omitted; recapitulation of earlier security-related
incidents in the area]

Source: Liberte, website, Algiers, in French 22 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            April 22, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Business as us sual at the Taj;
Five months on from deadly terror attacks, a new w Mumbai is looking to the
future with optimism

BYLINE: Roz Laws

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1228 words


THE elegant lobby of the Taj Mahal Hotel is a tranquil haven from the hectic
activity of Mumbai.

Outside, the chaotic city lives life at 100mph. Inside, all seems quiet and
serene.

There's just one small clue to the fact it hasn't always been this way. In the
corner is a poignant reminder of the horrendous ordeal which guests and staff
endured five months ago, when the hotel was the centre of a terrorist attack.

It's a memorial stone, engraved with the names of the 31 people - including the
manager's wife and two children - who were killed during the attack. Terrorists
burst through in the early hours of November 26, throwing grenades and shooting
automatic weapons.

Fire took hold and destroyed much of the Taj's beautiful old wing.

That is still closed, undergoing renovation, but the 1970s tower reopened just
24 days after the attack, along with the restaurants and other facilities.

Now it's business as usual in Mumbai's most iconic hotel, where the service is
still five-star.

This is a remarkably resilient city and life goes on, though India's commercial
centre is not untouched by the tragedy.

Security has been stepped up to airport levels - you have to go through scanners
to enter hotels and public buildings, and armed guards and sniffer dogs prowl
the Taj, but the reassuring measures are carried out with efficiency and
politeness.

There are also large posters dotted about, saying "Together we shall vanquish
terror" and "We have to protect our city. Keep your eyes and ears open!" We can
only hope that Mumbaikars, as residents are called, pay more attention to those
than the signs urging: "Say no to honking. Silent city, better city." These are
completely ignored, along with every other highway code, by motorists. There are
few lane markings on the pot-holed roads, so four lines of cars try to squeeze
into a space meant for three, while three-wheeled rickshaws, or 'tuk-tuks', dart
about in between.

No one looks or indicates when they pull out and I'm amazed there aren't more
crashes, but somehow vehicles miss each other by whiskers.

At major intersections with no traf- fic lights, the right of way seems to be
determined by those who honk the loudest.

The roads were packed even at midnight when we arrived, on a Jet Airways flight.

Since Air India pulled out of Birmingham in October and last month revealed it
was not returning, the city has been without a direct link to India.

But there is a way to fly to Mumbai that's a lot less hassle than taking off
from Heathrow.

Take a Brussels Airline flight to the Belgian capital, then it's just a short
walk to, and a short wait at, the gate from which Jet Airways flights depart for
Mumbai.

Jet has been operating for 16 years but only entered the UK market four years
ago. In that time it's become the market leader, especially popular with Indians
though still raising its profile with British travellers.

I was fortunate enough to fly business, or Premiere, class, which made a huge
difference on the 3am return journey. While I changed into the
helpfully-provided pyjamas, the friendly flight staff turned my seat into a
cosy, flat bed with duvets and pillows. I slept for six hours, a rare occurrence
on a flight, helped by the 'privacy shield' between each seat.

That's also very useful if you're watching a sad film and want to have a little
cry! Jet's 'on demand' in-flight entertainment service, also available in
economy, is impressive. You have a wide range of films to choose from and can
start, stop and pause them whenever you want. As we arrived in the middle of the
night, it wasn't until I opened the curtains the next morning that I was able to
appreciate the panoramic view from my room in the Taj Mahal Hotel, overlooking
the Arabian Sea and the Gateway of India, a towering archway built to
commemorate the visit of George V in 1911.

The Taj, or to give it its full name, the Taj Mahal Palace & Tower, was built in
1903 by industrialist Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata, back when the city was called
Bombay (it stlll is by many residents).

It's still owned by the Tata family - his great grandson Ratan is chairman of
the Tata Group, whose business interests include Jaguar Land Rover.

It's played host to maharajas, kings, presidents and celebrities like John
Lennon and Yoko Ono, who stayed in their suite for their entire stay.

What a lot they missed out on! If you've seen the Oscar-winning film Slumdog
Millionaire, it will give you a sense of how vibrant, bustling and fascinating
Mumbai is. Your senses work overtime trying to take in all the
colourfully-dressed people, the noise, the heat and the smells.

Mumbai is a true city of extremes..

Here are some of the most expensive properties in the world, next to Asia's
biggest slum.

Almost 14 million people live an area one-third the size of Greater London.

More than half live in slums, with 600,000 people crammed into Dharavi, made
famous by Slumdog Millionaire.

The ramshackle dwellings, jumbled heaps of corrugated iron, tarpaulin and
cardboard, look like they'd collapse in the slightest gust of wind..

Yet they've been around for decades and house thriving communities.

There's no shame attached to living in a Dharavi and its smart and industrious
residents are friendly and welcoming.

Mumbai is the financial centre of Asia, but it's not all work, work, work.

On Sunday afternoons, families stroll along Chowpatty Beach.

It's worth taking a boat from the Gateway of India to Elephanta Island, to see
the seventh century carvings of gods hewn into rockfaces. Mumbai has many fine
architectural examples of India's colonial history, especially Chhatrapati
Shivaji Terminus, still known as Victoria Terminus.

This main station plays a crucial part in Slumdog Millionaire and has a
spectacular facade with ornate carvings and statues - quite unlike New Street
Station! Everywhere you look are Mumbai's distinctive black and yellow taxis,
based on a 1950s model. There are 80,000 of them, adding to Mumbai's horrendous
traffic problem. Try to drive across the city and you'll spend most of the time
in gridlock, but at least there's always something see.

Mumbai is an easy city to negotiate in other ways. It feels safe to walk about,
most people speak English and almost all the signs and street names are in
English.

Slightly less frantic is the suburb of Bandra, home to many Bollywood stars and
another Taj hotel, the Lands End. The service is just as good as at the Taj
Mahal. They greet you with gardlands of flowers at check-in, you don't even need
to push a lift button and we even had our own butler! But Lands End has a much
more modern feel to it. The two styles echo Mumbai as a whole, a city of elegant
history which looks to the future..

n Jet Airways flies daily to Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi from Birmingham airport
via its European hub in Brussels and codesharing with Brussels Airlines. Jet
Airways also flies three times daily from London Heathrow connecting to 64
destinations in India and beyond.

A return flight to Mumbai from Birmingham starts from pounds 376.30. For
information on schedules and fares visit www.jetairways.com or call 0808 101
1199.

n More information on the Taj Mahal and Taj Lands End is available from
www.tajhotels.com.

GettingThere" It's business as usual in Mumbai's most iconic hotel, where the
service is still five-star

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The lobby of the Taj Lands End hotel contrasts sharply with the
poverty still apparent in the sl ums of Mumbai (right) The beautiful pool at the
Taj Lands End hotel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                            April 22, 2009 Wednesday

Terror case 'highlights threat to UK';
A failed terror attack by Plymouth bomber Nicky Reilly has been used to
highlight the threat facing the country as ministers announced extra cash to
protect crowded public places.

BYLINE: NICK LESTER Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 367 words


A Home Office consultation document on how businesses and local agencies could
help in the fight against terrorism said recent cases had shown the extent to
which extremists were prepared to target areas where there were large numbers of
people.

Security minister Lord West said an additional £5million in funding would be
made available to local authorities and agencies across the country to help them
work together to ensure public places were kept safe.

Entitled 'Working Together to Protect Crowded Places' it provides advice on how
agencies, including the police and community groups, can achieve this.

It said the UK faced a high level of threat from international terrorism, and an
attack could take place without warning.

The threat level to the UK is currently assessed as 'severe', meaning a
terrorist attack is highly likely.

The document said: "In the UK we have seen attacks on public transport and an
airport terminal building, and car bombs left in the vicinity of nightclubs.

"Convicted terrorists have considered such targets as shopping centres,
nightclubs and hotels.

"Recent cases have shown the extent to which terrorists are prepared to target
crowded public places."

It pointed to the failed bomb attack in an Exeter city centre restaurant last
year by Muslim convert Reilly, from Stonehouse, saying: "He had been preparing
the attack when the explosive device went off in his hands."

The would-be martyr, who also considered bombing Plymouth's Charles Cross police
station and Drake Circus shopping centre as well as Devonport dockyard, was
jailed in January for life with a minimum of 18 years.

The document added: "Crowded places will remain an attractive target for
terrorists."

Reilly's botched attack has also featured in a government anti- terror guide
illustrating the need to be prepared throughout the country to deal with an
attack.

Speaking at a Home Office conference Lord West: "We know people want to attack
public places. They want to cause mass casualties of innocent people. We are
working to stop that. There is no greater priority for the Government than the
safety and security of the public."

He added that there was 'absolutely no room for complacency' regarding
terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 82


                         Copyright 2009 Evening Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                            April 22, 2009 Wednesday

Terror case 'highlights threat to UK';
A failed terror attack by Plymouth bomber Nicky Reilly has been used to
highlight the threat facing the country as ministers announced extra cash to
protect crowded public places.

BYLINE: NICK LESTER Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 367 words


A Home Office consultation document on how businesses and local agencies could
help in the fight against terrorism said recent cases had shown the extent to
which extremists were prepared to target areas where there were large numbers of
people.

Security minister Lord West said an additional £5million in funding would be
made available to local authorities and agencies across the country to help them
work together to ensure public places were kept safe.

Entitled 'Working Together to Protect Crowded Places' it provides advice on how
agencies, including the police and community groups, can achieve this.

It said the UK faced a high level of threat from international terrorism, and an
attack could take place without warning.

The threat level to the UK is currently assessed as 'severe', meaning a
terrorist attack is highly likely.

The document said: "In the UK we have seen attacks on public transport and an
airport terminal building, and car bombs left in the vicinity of nightclubs.

"Convicted terrorists have considered such targets as shopping centres,
nightclubs and hotels.

"Recent cases have shown the extent to which terrorists are prepared to target
crowded public places."

It pointed to the failed bomb attack in an Exeter city centre restaurant last
year by Muslim convert Reilly, from Stonehouse, saying: "He had been preparing
the attack when the explosive device went off in his hands."

The would-be martyr, who also considered bombing Plymouth's Charles Cross police
station and Drake Circus shopping centre as well as Devonport dockyard, was
jailed in January for life with a minimum of 18 years.

The document added: "Crowded places will remain an attractive target for
terrorists."

Reilly's botched attack has also featured in a government anti- terror guide
illustrating the need to be prepared throughout the country to deal with an
attack.

Speaking at a Home Office conference Lord West: "We know people want to attack
public places. They want to cause mass casualties of innocent people. We are
working to stop that. There is no greater priority for the Government than the
safety and security of the public."

He added that there was 'absolutely no room for complacency' regarding
terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 82


                         Copyright 2009 Evening Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            April 22, 2009 Wednesday

Attacks left 4 kids in terror

BYLINE: David O'Callaghan

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 135 words


A Man who terrorised  children in a series of frightening incidents in
Pontardawe could be back on the streets within a matter of weeks.

Homeless widower Mark Clayden, who drunkenly claimed to have killed at least 30
people, confronted the youngsters in an underpass and on a footbridge last
October.

One of this victims, aged 11, was left so traumatised that her family decided to
take her away to live in England.

Clayden, aged 44, was jailed for 15 months at Swansea Crown Court after pleading
guilty to four counts of false imprisonment.

He admitted assaulting the four youngsters and "unlawfully and injuriously"
detaining them against their will.

The judge said Clayden would be released after serving half of his sentence and
the 193 days spent in custody on remand should count towards this.

Full story - page 5

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2009 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            April 22, 2009 Wednesday

Attacks left 4 kids in terror

BYLINE: David O'Callaghan

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 135 words


A Man who terrorised  children in a series of frightening incidents in
Pontardawe could be back on the streets within a matter of weeks.

Homeless widower Mark Clayden, who drunkenly claimed to have killed at least 30
people, confronted the youngsters in an underpass and on a footbridge last
October.

One of this victims, aged 11, was left so traumatised that her family decided to
take her away to live in England.

Clayden, aged 44, was jailed for 15 months at Swansea Crown Court after pleading
guilty to four counts of false imprisonment.

He admitted assaulting the four youngsters and "unlawfully and injuriously"
detaining them against their will.

The judge said Clayden would be released after serving half of his sentence and
the 193 days spent in custody on remand should count towards this.

Full story - page 5

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2009 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            April 22, 2009 Wednesday

Attacks left 4 kids in terror

BYLINE: David O'Callaghan

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 135 words


A Man who terrorised  children in a series of frightening incidents in
Pontardawe could be back on the streets within a matter of weeks.

Homeless widower Mark Clayden, who drunkenly claimed to have killed at least 30
people, confronted the youngsters in an underpass and on a footbridge last
October.

One of this victims, aged 11, was left so traumatised that her family decided to
take her away to live in England.

Clayden, aged 44, was jailed for 15 months at Swansea Crown Court after pleading
guilty to four counts of false imprisonment.

He admitted assaulting the four youngsters and "unlawfully and injuriously"
detaining them against their will.

The judge said Clayden would be released after serving half of his sentence and
the 193 days spent in custody on remand should count towards this.

Full story - page 5

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2009 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Manchester Evening News

                            April 23, 2009 Thursday

Our pitchfork attack terror

BYLINE: chris osuh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 290 words


ACOUPLE have spoken of the 'nightmare' moment robbers armed with a pitchfork and
a knife burst into their bedroom.

One hooded thug smashed his way into the house before threatening Ruth Fleming,
21, with the pitchfork.

The terrified student was then dragged out of bed by the man, before his
accomplice dragged her around the house at knifepoint while her boyfriend was
held captive in the bedroom.

Hours before the early morning raid, Ruth, a history student at Manchester
Metropolitan University, had been driven back to the city by boyfriend Alex
O'Reilly after spending Easter with her family in London.

The couple were sleeping in an upstairs bedroom of Ruth's house at Plattbrook
Close, Fallowfield, when they heard loud banging.

Alex, 32, a retail manager said: "At first we thought it was her housemates
playing a prank.

"Even when a man in a black hood came in the room with a pitchfork it took a
while to realise it wasn't a joke. Next thing he grabbed my girlfriend, and
another man, who had a knife, came out of nowhere. Ruth was then frogmarched
around the house by him to look for my car keys."

The men stole Alex's Audi A3 as well as an iPod, a mobile phone and a handbag.

Ruth was so shaken by the crime she is going back to London and will only return
to the city to complete her exams.

She said: "The man with the pitchfork was so intimidating. He was holding the
pitchfork towards us in bed.

"I couldn't find the car keys but they kept pushing me. This is the first bad
experience I have had as a student in Manchester - but it was terrifying."

The men were both white, wore hoodies, and had local accents.

One was 5ft 8in and the other 5ft 5in. They fled in the car, which is worth
about £10,000 and has the registration number WR53 VKO.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Medway News

                                 April 23, 2009

Terror of cop attack

BYLINE: George Nott

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 497 words


A Frail arthritis sufferer has told how he feared for his life as a senior
police officer held a knife to his throat during an arrest.

Anthony Colcomb, 56, was speaking after two officers were convicted of common
assault with beating at Sittingbourne Magistrates' Court last week.

Retired labourer Mr Colcomb, who cannot work because of his  severe arthritis,
said: "The police seem to have this idea that we're all little people and don't
count for anything and that they're above the law. But they're not.

"It was like a nightmare."

The court was told plainclothed officers Det Sgt Ollie Tingley, 29, and Det Con
Luke Barlow, 27, arrived at Mr Colcomb's home in Thorold Road, Chatham, in
August last year after reports of a domestic incident.

Mr Colcomb said that while arresting him the officers grabbed him by the throat,
knelt on top of him and held an 8in kitchen knife to his neck.

The facts came to light after a uniformed officer who had accompanied the
detectives on the arrest raised concerns with senior officers.

Mr Colcomb said: "I was just sitting down to watch the news at 8.15pm when there
was a knock at the door. I was shocked to see three police officers. They said
they had come to question me about an incident earlier in the day.

"As soon as they were through the door, Det Con Barlow grabbed me by the throat
and forced me down on to the sofa. He then grabbed my head and pushed it right
back.

"Det Sgt Tingley knelt on top of me, pinning me to the sofa. He wouldn't let me
go and kept shouting: 'You're a bully. Do you think you're big?' He was very
aggressive.

"Once they let me up, I staggered into the kitchen to get away.  The officers
followed me, then pinned me against the wall. Tingley grabbed a chopping knife.
He was very careful to wrap the handle in kitchen paper first, so he didn't
leave any fingerprints.

"Then he came over to me and held the knife against my throat. I couldn't
believe what was happening.  If I moved one inch, God knows what might have
happened. I was absolutely terrified, I honestly believed he would have cut my
throat."

The court was told both officers were charged in October, after a probe into
claims they had mistreated Mr Colcomb during his arrest. The pair, who denied
the charge, were immediately suspended from duty and are likely to be dismissed.
Tingley, the head of the Medway police robbery squad, is starting a 90-day
sentence. Barlow, 27, was ordered to complete 300 hours' community service.

Mr Colcomb was held in a cell for four hours without charge following the
arrest. His girlfriend, who had told police he had threatened her, dropped her
complaint. After the hearing, Assistant Chief Constable Steve Harris said: "We
expect the highest standards of our officers and staff and aim to serve Kent
with the commitment and dedication our community deserve.

"No one is above the law and this case shows Kent police treats everyone
equally. These officers failed to maintain the professional standards that we
expect."

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 275


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Medway News

                                 April 23, 2009

Terror of cop attack

BYLINE: George Nott

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 497 words


A Frail arthritis sufferer has told how he feared for his life as a senior
police officer held a knife to his throat during an arrest.

Anthony Colcomb, 56, was speaking after two officers were convicted of common
assault with beating at Sittingbourne Magistrates' Court last week.

Retired labourer Mr Colcomb, who cannot work because of his  severe arthritis,
said: "The police seem to have this idea that we're all little people and don't
count for anything and that they're above the law. But they're not.

"It was like a nightmare."

The court was told plainclothed officers Det Sgt Ollie Tingley, 29, and Det Con
Luke Barlow, 27, arrived at Mr Colcomb's home in Thorold Road, Chatham, in
August last year after reports of a domestic incident.

Mr Colcomb said that while arresting him the officers grabbed him by the throat,
knelt on top of him and held an 8in kitchen knife to his neck.

The facts came to light after a uniformed officer who had accompanied the
detectives on the arrest raised concerns with senior officers.

Mr Colcomb said: "I was just sitting down to watch the news at 8.15pm when there
was a knock at the door. I was shocked to see three police officers. They said
they had come to question me about an incident earlier in the day.

"As soon as they were through the door, Det Con Barlow grabbed me by the throat
and forced me down on to the sofa. He then grabbed my head and pushed it right
back.

"Det Sgt Tingley knelt on top of me, pinning me to the sofa. He wouldn't let me
go and kept shouting: 'You're a bully. Do you think you're big?' He was very
aggressive.

"Once they let me up, I staggered into the kitchen to get away.  The officers
followed me, then pinned me against the wall. Tingley grabbed a chopping knife.
He was very careful to wrap the handle in kitchen paper first, so he didn't
leave any fingerprints.

"Then he came over to me and held the knife against my throat. I couldn't
believe what was happening.  If I moved one inch, God knows what might have
happened. I was absolutely terrified, I honestly believed he would have cut my
throat."

The court was told both officers were charged in October, after a probe into
claims they had mistreated Mr Colcomb during his arrest. The pair, who denied
the charge, were immediately suspended from duty and are likely to be dismissed.
Tingley, the head of the Medway police robbery squad, is starting a 90-day
sentence. Barlow, 27, was ordered to complete 300 hours' community service.

Mr Colcomb was held in a cell for four hours without charge following the
arrest. His girlfriend, who had told police he had threatened her, dropped her
complaint. After the hearing, Assistant Chief Constable Steve Harris said: "We
expect the highest standards of our officers and staff and aim to serve Kent
with the commitment and dedication our community deserve.

"No one is above the law and this case shows Kent police treats everyone
equally. These officers failed to maintain the professional standards that we
expect."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 275


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                             April 24, 2009 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

City MP in attack over 'terror plot' deportation

BYLINE: MIKE HORN

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 497 words


A Birmingham MP has attacked the deportation of 12 men who were arrested over a
suspected terrorist bomb plot and then released without charge as "disturbing
and gravely unjust".

In a letter to Home Secretary Jacqui Smith, Khalid Mahmood, MP for Perry Barr,
and Glasgow Central MP Mohammad Sarwar, said incidents such as this do
"irreparable damage" to race relations.

Apart from one British citizen, all the released men are Pakistani nationals and
have been handed over to the immigration authorities to be deported, according
to Number 10, on "national security" grounds.

They had been in custody since April 8 when armed police swooped on locations
across North-West England.

Mr Sarwar and Mr Mahmood said they had been urged to intervene by members of the
Pakistani community who "very understandably feel let down by the security
forces".

The MPs added: "We, along with many of our constituents, were amazed, shocked
and indeed worried to learn that the police have been unable to present
sufficient evidence to the Crown Prosecution Service on which it could lay
charges against any of the 12 men arrested. Especially when these young men were
initially described by both the Government and the police as having been
involved in a serious terrorist plot and were arrested in such dramatic
circumstances.

"We find it deeply disturbing and gravely unjust that these innocent young men,
all of whom have been released without charge, are now to face immediate
deportation and, therefore, will be unable to continue their legitimate academic
studies which they should lawfully be entitled to complete.

"It is a very sad day when the innocent are no longer considered innocent in
this country until proven guilty." The letter continued: "Incidents such as this
do irreparable damage to the vital race relations work that is being done and
has been done by the Government and leaders of ethnic minority communities, both
at home in this country and abroad.

"We feel tremendously disappointed and hugely saddened by these events.

There is no doubt that the security services must act upon intelligence and seek
to defend fellow citizens.

"At the same time they must ensure that adequate evidence is available otherwise
such events only make the task of defending our great country even harder.

"An important strand of counter-terrorism must be about winning the hearts and
minds as well as the confidence of Britain's Muslim community.

"Events such as these undermine this effort." The arrests took place after Bob
Quick, the Met's Assistant Commissioner and Britain's most senior antiterror
officer, inadvertently revealed secret plans of the raid to Downing Street press
photographers on his way to brief the Prime Minister.

Mr Quick has since resigned and police are adamant his error did not compromise
the investigation.

On Wednesday, Lord Carlile, who reviews terror legislation, said he had decided
to look into the operation while memories were still fresh..

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             April 24, 2009 Friday

National: Ex-defence chief says attack on liberties is bowing to terrorists

BYLINE: Alan Travis, Home affairs editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 421 words


A former chief of the defence staff has warned that the quot;creeping
irreversible curtailmentquot; of civil liberties in the name of national
security is quot;playing the game by terrorists' rulesquot;.

Lord Craig of Radley, a former marshal of the Royal Air Force, also criticised
the scale of the surveillance society, arguing that millions of CCTV cameras in
Britain had done little to reduce street crime or prove themselves
cost-effective.

In a House of Lords debate on civil liberties and electronic surveillance
yesterday, Craig said the rapid advance of digital technology could eventually
lead to society accepting the need for quot;chipping of humans at birthquot;,
with the state using the information in a national identity card scheme or for
medical records.

He was supported by the former law lord, Lord Steyn, who said there was no
evidence that the national identity scheme would improve security.

Craig, a crossbench peer, said terrorism obviously posed a threat to national
security, but should never be equated with a threat to quot;national
survivalquot; - as Britain faced in two world wars and the cold war - however
ghastly its manifestations: quot;Curtailing civil rights is playing the game by
terrorists' rules.

quot;We owe it not only to ourselves, but to future generations to do our utmost
to uphold and safeguard our civil rights. Creeping irreversible curtailment is
the danger today,quot; he told peers.

Craig said that the rapid growth of CCTV coverage at a cost of hundreds of
millions of pounds had helped track down suspects but questioned whether many of
its other claimed advantages had materialised.

quot;Crime on our streets has not significantly reduced. How many of the
thousands of prisoners in jails owe their convictions to being caught on
CCTV?quot; he asked. He noted that Norfolk police had fitted electronic tags to
radios and vehicles so patrols could be tracked to improve response times but
said such technologies had wider uses. Pets were already being routinely fitted
with electronic chips detailing their owners addresses. The EU wants all sheep
to be similarly tagged.

quot;Unacceptable for humans today, but after another decade or more - I wonder?
If all were to be chipped at birth, this information could be used for a whole
variety of applications favoured by the state such as national identity
cards.quot;

He added that until such civil liberty challenges were addressed, society could
not rest assured that IT systems were servants rather than masters of the
individual.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 25, 2009 Saturday

Death toll of Iranians reaches 63 in Iraq "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 217 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Baghdad, 25 April: According to the latest news on Iranian casualties in
terrorist attacks in Iraq on Thursday and Friday [23, 24 April], 63 people have
been killed and 91 injured.

The Iraqi officials said that the number of Iranian pilgrims who have been
killed in suicide attacks in Kazemain city, north of Baghdad, have increased to
10.

The number was already declared four or five.

In the suicide blasts in Kazemain on Friday at least 60 people have been killed.

The number of injured people in two blasts in Kazemain also reached 125, among
them 28 were Iranian.

The latest figure on the number of martyrs in suicide attacks on Thursday in
eastern province of Diala is 56 of whom 53 were Iranian.

66 people were injured in the blasts on Thursday of whom 63 were from Iran.

Another report said that all Iranians injured or killed in the attacks were
transferred to Iran on Thursday.

Following a rise in suicide attacks in Iraq in the last two days, more than 200
people have been killed.

When Iraqi government announced arrest of Abu Omar al-Baghdadi, a senior member
of al-Qa'ida, last Wednesday the suicide attacks increased suddenly.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 0205 gmt 25 Apr
09

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 25, 2009 Saturday

Iran envoy blames foreign forces for "terrorist attacks" in Iraq

LENGTH: 440 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Baghdad, 25 April: Iran's ambassador to Baghdad, by underscoring Iraqi
government responsibility to provide security for Iranian pilgrims, said Iran is
waiting for outcome of investigation by the special committee designated by the
government.

Speaking to IRNA in Baghdad, Hasan Kazemi-Qomi said negotiations between the two
countries concerning providing security for Iranian pilgrims during their visit
to the holy cities in Iraq have begun adding that his talk with President
Talabani concerning the latest developments in the morning was 'positive'.

He said that Iraqi government has established an especial committee to
investigate about the last 48 hours incidents, especially against Iranian
pilgrims in Diyala and Kazemayn to find the perpetrators of the crimes.

The ambassador said, "We are waiting for results of investigation, while we
continue our negotiations in this concern."

About his talks with President Talabani, Kazemi-Qomi said that the president
underlined importance of continuation of secure pilgrimage tours.

The envoy said that in a meeting in the Interior Ministry, all participants were
agreed on keeping border passing point open in Mehran and Tehran is still
considering border situation.

Responding to a question concerning root cause of the recent incidents in Iraq,
the ambassador said insecurity is rooted in continued presence of foreign
forces, unilateral policies and the US security plans which are not matched with
Iraq political, cultural and social situation and are proposed under pretext of
fight against terrorism.

Another reason for emergence of such incidents is the fact that the US
obligations in the military forces departure agreement have not been fulfilled.

According to the agreement, strengthening army and police forces in Iraq,
transferring full security responsibility and turning over the prisoners to the
Iraqi government were among commitments of the US which have not been fulfilled
yet.

Unilateral release of a number of prisoners by the US was violation of the
commitment; some of these ex-prisoners were involved in terrorist operations.

In a suicide attack on Thursday in eastern province of Diyala which occurred in
a restaurant, 53 Iranian pilgrims were killed and 90 were injured.

In another incident on Friday noon in the city of Kazemayn, north of Baghdad,
two women by exploding themselves in front of a holy shrine killed at least 60
people, 15 Iranians, and wounded 125 of whom 36 were Iranian pilgrims.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1940 gmt 25 Apr
09

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 26, 2009 Sunday

Iranian MP holds US responsible for terror attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 230 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 26 April: Iran holds the US responsible for the terror attacks against
Iranian pilgrims in Iraq, A senior parliamentarian said on Sunday [26 April].

Ala'eddin Borujerdi, Chairman of Majlis Commission on National Security and
Foreign Policy, said that his commission would follow up the terrorist attacks
against Iranian pilgrims in Iraq on 23-24 April.

He made the remarks while talking to reporters on the sidelines of a Majlis
formal session this morning.

The US recently made a suspicious act in Iraq by releasing several terrorist
Ba'thist elements, the MP said, adding that those terrorist operations were made
in a short time after their release.

He reiterated that Washington is one of the main accused of these tragic events.

At least 63 Iranian pilgrims were killed and another 93 wounded in terrorist
bombings in Baquba and Kadhimiyah on 23-24 April.

The Friday terrorist attacks took place when hundreds of worshippers had
gathered to pray at an Islamic shrine in the historic and predominantly Shi'i
neighbourhood of Kadhimiyah in northern Baghdad while the Thursday blast
occurred inside a crowded roadside restaurant filled with Iranian pilgrims in
Baquba, Diyala province, northeast of Baghdad.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 0945 gmt 26 Apr
09

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 26, 2009 Sunday

Iran Foreign Ministry, Prosecutor Office to investigate Iraq "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 116 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Tehran, 26 April: The Foreign Ministry and the Prosecutor Office will cooperate
in investigating the terrorist attacks on Iranian pilgrims inside Iraq, said
Naser Seraj, the deputy prosecutor-general for security affairs, on Sunday.

Seraj said the dossier is currently under the study. On Thursday, a suicide bomb
attack in the north eastern Iraqi province of Diyala left 54 Iranians pilgrims
dead.

The following day, two female suicide bombers blew themselves up near a Muslim
shrine in Baghdad, killing 60 people. Many of the dead and wounded were also
Iranian pilgrims.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 1425 gmt 26 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 26, 2009 Sunday

"US must be held responsible for Iraq terrorist attack" - Iran foreign minister

LENGTH: 243 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 26 April: Foreign Minister Manuchehr Mottaki said on Sunday [26 April]
that the US should be accountable for the recent terrorist act against Iranian
pilgrims in Iraq which claimed lives of many innocent civilians.

Mottaki made the remark in a meeting with Washington's Friday Prayer Leader
Fassil Raoof in Tehran on Sunday.

The US is responsible for maintaining Iraq's security prior to nationwide
elections in the country, he said.

According to the Information and Press Bureau of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, Mottaki said that the US has two options in dealing with global
developments.

"The first option is to proceed with the wrong policies of the Bush
administration whose fate is clear and the second option is to bring about real
changes, accept realities of the world and adopt new policies based on these
undeniable facts," he said.

Raoof, for his part, said that Islam has now been accepted as a reality in the
American society and despite Zionists' efforts to offer an unreal image of Islam
in the wake of the 11 September events, we are now witnessing more and more
people converting to Islam."

Underlining the significant status of Iran in the American Muslim community and
world Muslims, he said Iran's policy is base on genuine Islam and is admired by
world Muslims.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1335 gmt 26 Apr
09

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 26, 2009 Sunday

Iran vows to bring to justice perpetrators of terrorist attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 396 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 26 April: Speaker of Iran's Consultative Assembly (Majlis) Ali Larijani
vowed on Sunday [26 April] to bring to justice those involved in terrorist
attacks against Iranian pilgrims in Iraq on 23-24 April.

At least 63 Iranian pilgrims were killed and another 93 wounded in terrorist
bombings against Iranians in Baquba and Kadhimiyah, Iraq, on 23-24 April.

The Friday terrorist attacks took place when hundreds of worshippers had
gathered to pray at an Islamic shrine in the historic and predominantly Shi'i
neighbourhood of Kadhimiyah in northern Baghdad while the Thursday blast
occurred inside a crowded roadside restaurant filled with Iranian pilgrims in
Baquba, Diyala province, northeast of Baghdad.

The suicide bomber, wearing a belt of explosives, blew himself up at lunch time.

Offering his deepest sympathy to the families of the victims, Larijani said that
the terrorist attacks in Iraq and some other incidents which have taken place
inside Iran within the past couple of days were indicative of the "US vicious
planning to involve terrorists in a mine field which was prepared with the help
of some regional states."

"The terrorists should know that they have entered in very dangerous field and
they would receive Iran's harsh response," the speaker stressed.

He further argued that the US footprints were found in some recent incidents
occurred in the western and eastern parts of Iran.

Larijani said that such moves would prove Washington's weakness more than ever.

"Iran considers those events against the slogans of change and dialogue,"
Larijani said adding that some recent rhetoric of the US Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton, in the US congress about crushing sanctions have proven US
confusion.

Stressing that "US should be accountable for" its attitudes, Larijani advised
Washington to learn from the past and its humiliating failure in the Tabas
desert in eastern Iran and "avoid forcing Iran to show stinging reaction."

The speaker said that "Iran expects the Iraqi government to show due response
immediately" about the terrorist attacks and disclose those behind the curtain.

Larijani also urged the National Security and Foreign Policy Commission to
follow up the case seriously.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 0710 gmt 26 Apr
09

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 26, 2009 Sunday

Iran Speaker sees US "footprints" in Iraq "terrorist" attacks

LENGTH: 279 words


Text of report by state-run Iranian radio on 26 April

[News reader]: At his pre-sermon speech, Majlis Speaker [Ali Larijani] described
the US as the behind the scene factor for the recent terrorist attacks in both
sides of Iran-Iraq border. Mr Larijani emphasized that the terrorists will
receive a strong response from Iran.

[Larijani]: These incidents and some other blind actions of the terrorists
inside the country in recent days are signs of the US harassing plots aimed at
engaging the terrorists in a minefield set up with the fund from some of the
countries in the region. The terrorists will receive Iran's strong response and
they should know that they have stepped in a dangerous realm. This action and
other terrorist actions in the eastern and western Iran, show the footprints of
the US forces in these incidents. This indicates their weakness, which is caused
by their continuous defeats in the region. They know it very well themselves,
that in such occasions, it is not so difficult to carry out retaliatory
measures. However, the Islamic Republic will act upon its own liberality
principles and it will not act like marauding terrorists. However, it is
necessary for the Americans to write down the expenses of such incidents in
their own regional accounts book. The US government should be held responsible
for these behaviours and it should remind its own defeat in Tabas [referring to
Operation Eagle Claw in 1980 when United States military operation to rescue the
52 hostages from the US Embassy in Tehran failed]. The US should not force Iran
give a stinging reaction.

Source: Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Tehran, in Persian 0937 gmt 26
Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 27, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Michael caught plotting terror attack on 3min mobile phone video

BYLINE: OWEN CONLON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 575 words


'EXECUTED' Michael Dwyer was filmed discussing a terror attack on the Bolivian
government, it has been sensationally claimed.

Prosecutor Marcelo Sosa said officials have obtained a "startling" video
featuring the Irish man and the two others with whom he was shot dead ten days
ago.

The three-minute mobile phone clip shows them talking about explosive techniques
and blowing up a boat with Bolivian ministers on board, he said.

It was displayed to the media in a hastily arranged press conference late on
Saturday night in La Paz.

The grainy video has muffled audio, which Sosa said had been deciphered by
technical specialists.

In it, alleged plot leader Eduardo Rosza Flores stands in a garden, facing both
Dwyer, 24, and Arpad Magyarosi.

Sosa said: "They talk about how to launch an explosive device to best effect.

"They also mention a meeting of government personnel on Lake Titicaca and say
that they would have sent a frogman to blow up the boat."

It was not revealed who recorded the video, which Sosa said had been given to
authorities by an unnamed witness.

Explosion

Sosa added: "Rozsa, Magyarosi and the other one (Dwyer) say they were with
another person, and that person told them how best to create an explosion.

"He gives information about ANFOS, an element of nitrate which boosts the power
of an explosion.

"This evidence confirms the dismantled gang came here with terrorist aims." Sosa
did not reveal who said what during the recording.

Nor did he specify when it was made, or in which language the conversation took
place.

Dwyer, 24, from Tipperary, is known to have had little or no Spanish, while it
is not clear whether ethnic Hungarian-Romanian Magyarosi spoke either Spanish or
English.

The video has not been released to the media.

Attempts by the Irish Sun to obtain a copy yesterday proved unsuccessful.

Michael Dwyer was shot dead in his underwear during a SWAT raid on his Santa
Cruz hotel in the early hours of April 16.

Rozsa Flores and Magyarosi also died, while Hungarian Elod Toaso and
Bolivian-Croat Mario Tadik were taken captive.

Both have remained in custody since, though police revealed they claim Rozsa
Flores confiscated their passports.

Dwyer's family have flatly rejected Bolivian claims he was a mercenary involved
in an assassination plot.

He is expected to be buried on Tuesday or Wednesday after a post mortem later
today.

owen.conlon@the-sun.ie

MANY MIXED SIGNALS

THE video in which Michael Dwyer is allegedly caught plotting to blow up a boat
with a number of high-ranking politicians aboard is the latest Bolivian attempt
to paint him as a "mercenary".

The authorities there previously stated cops fought a 15-minute gun battle
during the raid, though only Rozsa Flores appears to have fired shots in his
defence.

Then Interior Minister Alfredo Rada went on TV with pictures of uniformed
"terrorists" linked to Rozsa Flores.

Next day, a group of terrified paintballers came forward to say the photo was
taken of them four years ago. President Evo Morales then gave an interview to Al
Jazeera saying Dwyer was "one of 17" paid Irish assassins who flew to Bolivia to
overthrow him.

However that figure appears linked to the innocent 17-strong party Dwyer
travelled to Bolivia with to undertake a bodyguard course.

Both men who survived the hotel raid - Mario Tadik and Elod Toaso - have been
kept incommunicado since their arrest.

But the men's lawyer claims both were beaten after their arrest and had their
human rights violated.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tragic end . . . Dwyer in camouflage gear
President . . . Morales
Shot dead . . . Magyarosi
'Leader' . . . Rosza Flores

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 28, 2009 Tuesday

Majlis to probe terror attacks against Iranian pilgrims in Iraq

LENGTH: 107 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 28 April: Majlis will investigate the terror attacks against Iranian
pilgrims in Iraq which caused scores of deaths on 23-24 April.

An official in the parliament's National Security and Foreign Policy Commission
said the parliamentarians will investigate the issue at the presence of
ministers of interior, information, foreign affairs as well as the chief of the
organization in charge of pilgrimage trips.

Hoseyn Sobhaninia said the meeting will be held on Wednesday.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 0805 gmt 28 Apr
09

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 28, 2009 Tuesday

Three killed, three injured in Algerian terror attack - update

LENGTH: 285 words


Text of report by Ameziane Athali headlined "Tizi Ouzou: Toll of Mizrana attack
rises and one terrorist killed in Tadmait", published by Algerian electronic
daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on 28 April

The toll of the double bomb attack carried out on Tuesday 28 April at about 0830
[local time] against a surveillance post of the Municipal Guard in Mizrana, in
Tizi Ouzou Province, has risen. A third municipal guard died of his injuries a
few hours after being rushed to the University Hospital of Tizi Ouzou, Tout sur
l'Algerie has learnt from medical sources. The toll of the attack has now risen
to three killed and three wounded, all of them municipal guards.

According to information available to us, the terrorists first planted two
explosive devices at the post of the Municipal Guard in the village of Ait Iften
last night. The devices were activated by remote control when the municipal
guards in charge of surveillance duty arrived at the post in the morning. After
the two bombs were detonated, the terrorists opened fire and a violent clash
followed. The municipal guards returned fire and forced the attackers to retreat
and flee towards the woods of Mizrana.

Elsewhere, an armed Islamist was shot dead last night by the security forces in
the village of Ait Khercha in the mountains of Sidi Ali Bounab, in the
municipality of Tadmait, 20 km west of Tizi Ouzou. A Kalashnikov rifle and three
cartridge clips were recovered during this operation. The dead terrorist is
currently being identified at the University Hospital of Tizi Ouzou. He was part
of an armed group made up of about 10 members who were ambushed by the security
forces.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website, in French, 1432 gmt 28 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            April 29, 2009 Wednesday

Indian authorities call for further investigations into 2006 terror attack

LENGTH: 444 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 28 April: As Taleban in Pakistan continues to demonstrate their
audacity, a worried India is watching if and how the establishment in Islamabad
and US are able to tackle the anarchical situation that has beset the
neighbouring country.

India does not fear any direct threat from Taleban but the prospect of the
fundamentalist militia taking over Pakistan is causing concern here as it would
provide a more fertile environment for terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba and
Jaish-e-Mohammad.

New Delhi is interested in seeing whether the US, under its new
Afghanistan-Pakistan strategy, has the correct "prescription" for the problems
concerning Pakistan, rather than just giving out financial doles.

India feels that the worrying aspect about Pakistan is the fact that it has
"multiple power centres" and dealing with "many Pakistans" has serious
consequences.

India believes that Taleban has reached the present state mainly due to the
support of Pakistani establishment and it would be helpful if the US and rest of
the world recognises this fact. The diagnosis of the US is now in tune with that
of India but it has to be seen whether the prescription is also the same,
sources said here today.

Sources said it would be important to see if and how the Pakistani system
responds to the resurgence of Taleban. The main thing to watch out for will be
the will and capability of Pakistani establishment to take on the Taleban, which
it has not been done so far.

With regard to America's new strategy on Afghanistan and Pakistan, New Delhi is
not sure whether it was really working with regard to Pakistan, considering the
developments in that country.

One aspect that appears to have gone wrong was the US' attempt to argue that
there were "good" Taleban among the fundamentalist militia. India has maintained
that there is no good or bad Taleban.

The US appears to have realised that this categorisation has wrong resonance,
the sources said even though India feels that involvement of locals in the
solution is logical.

India will be watching whether the US would put enough pressure and use its
influence to tackle the problem that has engulfed Pakistan and threatens to
increase. India would like to be involved in the AfPak policy as it has interest
in the solution to the problems afflicting Afghanistan and Pakistan.

Sources in the government also insisted that India's cooperation to the mission
of Richard Holbrooke, special envoy on Afghanistan and Pakistan, does not mean
US mediation on Kashmir. They maintain that India can no longer be bullied by
anybody.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1654gmt 28 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Halesowen News

                            April 29, 2009 Wednesday

Simulation of terrorist attack for firms to step up security

SECTION: ROUND-UP (HALES NEWS ROUNDUP)

LENGTH: 133 words


BUSINESSES are to be given the chance to take part in a security service
simulation of a terrorist attack at an event at Sandwell Council House in
Oldbury.

They are being urged to take part in Project ARGUS, which gives advice and
information about protecting against the possibility of a terrorist attack.

It has been developed by the National Counter Terrorism Security Office, a
police unit working with the Association of Chief Police Officers, to provide a
co-ordinating role for the police service.

The event is being held on Tuesday June 9 and is aimed at managers and assistant
managers in businesses located within crowded places in urban areas.

To register for a place on the free three-hour session contact Bob Pattison at
Sandwell Council on 0121 569 3983 or email bob_pattison@sandwell.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 29, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1

British trio cleared of role in terror attacks;
IN THE NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 42 words


Three British Muslims were cleared of helping to plan terrorist attacks on
London that killed 52 people and injured almost 1,000.

The three are the only people to have been prosecuted over Britain's first
suicide bomb attacks, on July 7, 2005. Pages 13-17

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                            April 30, 2009 Thursday

HIS FIRST NOVEL ABOUT A TERROR ATTACK CAME OUT ON 7/7. CHRIS CLEAVE'S NEW BOOK
HAS SOLD 100,000 IN 8 WEEKS AND NICOLE KIDMAN WANTS THE FILM RIGHTS

LENGTH: 1381 words


ALISON ROBERTS


London's literary scene, says 35-year-old best-selling novelist Chris Cleave, is
"absolutely rocking at the moment". "London is unbelievable," he says excitedly.
"You couldn't invent it. There are 300 languages, 72 major nationalities and,
despite what people would have you believe, it's largely self-policing because
we all actually get on with each other. "It's become this place where it doesn't
matter what you look like, where you're not defined by your ethnicity, and it's
exotic and exciting and fun, and that doesn't happen anywhere else on earth ‹
except perhaps New York, certainly not Paris ‹ and that, to me, is civilisation
Š" He pauses briefly for breath. Cleave's London-ophilia is torrential: "I go to
these book events, to parties, and I meet these brilliant writers, and whatever
their ethnicity, the fact is they live in this place where anything is possible
and where the imagination can have free rein.

It's so exciting. London is where literature really is at right now." We're
sitting ‹ with a certain bathos given this panegyric ‹ in Cleave's poky garden
shed at the bottom of his modest south London garden. This is where he works
every day on a laptop, away from the distractions of a very young family (Louis,
five, and Joe, two); and where, each week, he receives by email the steadily
growing sales figures for his second and latest novel, The Other Hand. It's also
where he received the "rather amazing" news that Nicole Kidman, no less, wants
the film rights to it. The Other Hand is one of those rare books that catches
the publishing industry off-guard ‹ a novel that barely shifts in hardback but
in paperback, without advertising or much marketing, suddenly begins to sell
through word-of-mouth, and within months becomes a cast-iron hit. In the past
eight weeks, it has sold 100,000 copies; has garnered six film offers; and next
month is featured as the inaugural novel on a new nationwide breakfast book club
broadcast by CBS in America. This latter, you suspect, will send sales in the US
soaring.

"It's all been very surprising," he says, with a small, delighted grin. "I mean,
I'm genuinely surprised that so many people have taken to my stuff like this."
The Other Hand is very much a London novel, and deals precisely with the
cultural mix that Cleave so celebrates. Its principal characters ‹ a
dissatisfied, adulterous magazine editor and a 16-year-old Nigerian asylum
seeker ‹ apparently share nothing but a single experience of horrific violence,
yet eventually, temporarily, form the kind of "family" that could perhaps exist
only in London. Much of the action takes place in the city's classically
middle-class districts such as Kingston upon Thames and occasionally stretches
belief in its rather chattering-class idealisation of migrant innocence. But
Cleave, who interviewed former internees of Britain's 10 immigration removal
centres for the book, has constructed a cleverly compelling plot ‹ and a series
of scenes that stick in the mind for sheer horror. Cleave's novel-writing career
was itself a form of migration ‹ from a solid future in business to a much less
secure life in fiction. Indeed, he grew up an economic migrant, in Cameroon,
where his father moved the family for work. "My father was a super-qualified
chemist but couldn't find employment here during the 1970s recession, so went
out to Africa to build a Guinness brewery.

"I was eight when I came back to a pretty tough state school in Hillingdon, and
I didn't fit in for quite a while. I didn't get playground culture. I didn't get
cold weather. I didn't get Britain." He was bright enough to get into Oxford,
however, and, after university, went to work for the late Nineties internet
phenomenon lastminute.com. At that point it was a thriving business and Cleave
loved it. "But I also wanted desperately to write. I had an epiphany quite late
on, when I was 19 and read Primo Levi for the first time. It was then I realised
how powerful literature can be." Unable to resist, he cashed in his valuable
lastminute shares, and moved to Paris with his French wife ‹ giving himself two
years to write a book. He was published within 18 months. Appropriately, that
first novel, Incendiary, was a baptism of fire. It took as its bloody subject
the aftermath of a fictional terrorist attack at an Arsenal-Chelsea match, and
was written in the form of an open letter to Osama bin Laden, a conceit that
caused huge controversy four years after 9/11. In the months preceding
publication the book was advertised in Underground stations, reviewed widely,
and condemned for tastelessness in more than one newspaper (including this one).
Cleave, nervous about the book's reception ("It could have been construed as
anti-Islamic; it's not, but it could have been Š"), felt overwhelmed. Yet there
was a terrible twist still to come: Incendiary was officially published on 7
July 2005. What did he think when he switched on the TV and saw the bombings on
the morning of his novel's launch? "I thought I'd lost my mind," he replies. "It
was extremely spooky." And then he says something startling: "It affected me in
an absolutely concrete way, because I thought it was my fault Š"

But how? "You have to remember the context: there was a huge ad campaign and it
was well known in London that this controversial book was coming out. I didn't
think it was impossible that the next phone call I'd get, someone would say:
these bombings are a response to your book, and deliberately carried out on the
day it's supposed to be published. Stranger things have happened. Look at the
whole Salman Rushdie affair. "Now, at a distance of almost four years, that
seems like hubris. I'm just a minor writer doing my thing ‹ it was nothing to do
with me. But at the time I genuinely thought I was to blame." Cleave has never
told this story in such detail before. He's an intense but affable sort of
bloke, and you can tell even the memory is uncomfortable. "I was actually very
scared. For about three days, I don't mind saying I couldn't hold it together.
One of the things I did was move my family to a safe place. I got really
paranoid, and didn't sleep for at least a week."

Later, he met many of the survivors of 7/7 at the launch for a book that told
their stories. "In a way I was in awe of those people. They were in wheelchairs,
on crutches, with bits of their jaw missing, and all milling around this little
bookshop in Kew not talking about it. They were talking about Wimbledon and the
weather. It was so incredibly British." Still, thanks to his early childhood in
Africa, Cleave doesn't feel particularly British himself, not in a "patriotic
way". He does, however, feel like a Londoner. "It's my place. I have this
loyalty to London because it's earned it, you know?" He grins; we are back on
his favourite subject. London's literary scene, he concludes, is moving beyond
the trend for novels that describe the city from a purely ethnic point of view ‹
books like Brick Lane and White Teeth ‹ and towards a London novel that blends
and merges the experience of all. "I think Monica Ali and Zadie Smith are great
but there was a rash of novels like theirs about five years ago, and I got so
pissed off. We should be past the point at which people think your story is
interesting just because you're ethnic. Your story should be interesting because
you've got something to say ‹ and that applies to characters in a novel as much
as to writers. Look at a writer like Alex Wheetle, stereotyped as a black
British novelist from south London, who is actually just mesmerisingly brilliant
Š" He is warming up again. "In fact, I do think that readers are generally
pushed a bunch of books that are very much like the ones they've just read. It's
the industry's fault. There should be fewer books published and they should be
much bloody better Š"

But what is it about London beyond its racial mix that makes it so exciting for
novelists? "We're rediscovering London's sense of stoicism and London's sense of
humour," he replies. "That ironic, dark, twisted sense of humour that is able to
accommodate all these differences without us ever killing each other."

And on that note of supreme optimism I leave him to his little shed; to have big
thoughts on even bigger subjects.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright  2009    Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Great Barr Observer

                                  May 1, 2009

Firms trained to deal with threat of terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 247 words


Businesses in Great Barr are being invited to take part in a terrorist attack
training exercise in Sandwell next month.

Sandwell Council is holding the mock terror event, Project ARGUS, at the Council
House in Freeth Street, Oldbury on June 9.

The security service  simulation is aimed at assisting managers of businesses
located at crowded places in urban settings.

Council officer Bob Pattison said Project ARGUS would help raise awareness about
the threat from terrorism and provide practical advice on preventing, handling
and recovering from an attack.

During the three-hour sessions people attending will face a series of questions
and challenges  individually and as a group which they  will have to  try to
resolve.

Councillor Bill Thomas, leader of Sandwell Council, said: "This free event gives
local businesses the opportunity to pick up some useful information about the
threat of terrorism, which is a vital consideration these days.

"It is an opportunity that Sandwell Council is pleased to be able to help the
security service with to highlight the dangers and to give advice to local
companies."

The exercise has been developed by the National Counter Terrorism Security
Office, a police unit working with the Association of Chief Police Officers, to
provide a co-ordinating role for the police service in protective security.

Anyone interested in registering for a place should contact Bob Pattison at
Sandwell Council on 0121 569 3983 or email bob_pattison@sandwell.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 231


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Great Barr Observer

                                  May 1, 2009

Firms trained to deal with threat of terrorist attacks

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 247 words


Businesses in Great Barr are being invited to take part in a terrorist attack
training exercise in Sandwell next month.

Sandwell Council is holding the mock terror event, Project ARGUS, at the Council
House in Freeth Street, Oldbury on June 9.

The security service  simulation is aimed at assisting managers of businesses
located at crowded places in urban settings.

Council officer Bob Pattison said Project ARGUS would help raise awareness about
the threat from terrorism and provide practical advice on preventing, handling
and recovering from an attack.

During the three-hour sessions people attending will face a series of questions
and challenges  individually and as a group which they  will have to  try to
resolve.

Councillor Bill Thomas, leader of Sandwell Council, said: "This free event gives
local businesses the opportunity to pick up some useful information about the
threat of terrorism, which is a vital consideration these days.

"It is an opportunity that Sandwell Council is pleased to be able to help the
security service with to highlight the dangers and to give advice to local
companies."

The exercise has been developed by the National Counter Terrorism Security
Office, a police unit working with the Association of Chief Police Officers, to
provide a co-ordinating role for the police service in protective security.

Anyone interested in registering for a place should contact Bob Pattison at
Sandwell Council on 0121 569 3983 or email bob_pattison@sandwell.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 231


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 2, 2009 Saturday

"Terrorist cell" said to have been planning attacks in Bahrain

LENGTH: 354 words


Text of report by Bahrain newspaper Akhbar Al-Khalij website on 2 May

[Unattributed Report: "The Two Suspects of the Cell Confess To Planning
Terrorist Operations; The Prosecution Orders Them To Be Remanded in Custody for
15 Days]

An official at the prosecution has said that the prosecution has started
investigating the suspects of the terrorist cell that was found.

The prosecution has received the investigation minutes of the security forces.
The minutes confirmed that there is a terrorist cell that is planning to carry
out terrorist operations against some targets in the Kingdom of Bahrain. They
also confirmed that the suspects had intensified their contacts with cell
members living overseas and that they travelled to an Arab country, purchased
arms and ammunition from some individuals in that country, then managed to
smuggle them to Bahrain. The official added that the security forces managed to
foil this plan and cut off the contacts and requested the prosecution's
permission to inspect the suspects' house. The prosecution issued the search
warrant.

During the search, they found two machine guns, a pistol, and ammunition
belonging to the suspects. The security forces also found papers containing
plans for the operations intended to be carried out, papers concerning arms,
computers, CDs, and special tapes containing bank statements and other
statements from foreign currency exchange offices. The prosecution interrogated
the suspects who confessed in detail to the charges against them, possession of
the seized items, contacting other suspects overseas, and planning terrorist
operations against targets inside the Kingdom of Bahrain.

The suspects also gave the names of their partners in some Arab and foreign
countries. Since investigations are still under way, and due to the dangerous
nature of the information, the prosecution will not disclose any further
information so that the rest of the suspects will not make use of any of them.

The prosecution ordered the suspects to be remanded in custody for 15 days
pending further investigation.

Source: Akhbar Al-Khalij website, Manama, in Arabic 2 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Thanet Times

                                  May 5, 2009

Young boy's terror at attack by family pet

BYLINE: Richard Spillett

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 244 words


Richard.spillett@krnmedia.co.uk

THE owner of a dog which  attacked two young boys in Broadstairs has been given
a conditional discharge.

John Barrow, 60, of Cinder Footpath, pleaded guilty to failing to control his
Alsatian dog when he appeared before Thanet magistrates on Thursday, April 22.

Prosecuting, Julie Farbrace told the court how a 12-year-old and 13-year-old
boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were walking near Barrow's house at
6.30pm on September 11 last year.

She described how  the large dog had run out of the back garden of one of the
houses and bitten the 13-year-old on the leg and the other on the shoe.

Barrow came out of the garden after the dog and managed to control it. He told
the boy, who later needed to be taken to hospital, to go home and get his leg
washed.

Defending, Stuart Green said Barrow, who works as a van driver, had not realised
the boy suffered the injury because of the dog, but thought he had fallen over
while  being chased.

He said as soon as the police arrived Barrow, who had no previous convictions,
had immediately admitted the offence. He added that the dog, which had no
history of dangerous behaviour, had always been friendly around Barrow's own son
and was always under control when being walked.

Magistrates gave Barrow a 12-month conditional discharge and ordered him to pay
£50 compensation and £35 costs.

They did not order that the dog was put down or castrated, saying they did not
think it was necessary.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 276


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Thanet Times

                                  May 5, 2009

Young boy's terror at attack by family pet

BYLINE: Richard Spillett

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 244 words


Richard.spillett@krnmedia.co.uk

THE owner of a dog which  attacked two young boys in Broadstairs has been given
a conditional discharge.

John Barrow, 60, of Cinder Footpath, pleaded guilty to failing to control his
Alsatian dog when he appeared before Thanet magistrates on Thursday, April 22.

Prosecuting, Julie Farbrace told the court how a 12-year-old and 13-year-old
boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were walking near Barrow's house at
6.30pm on September 11 last year.

She described how  the large dog had run out of the back garden of one of the
houses and bitten the 13-year-old on the leg and the other on the shoe.

Barrow came out of the garden after the dog and managed to control it. He told
the boy, who later needed to be taken to hospital, to go home and get his leg
washed.

Defending, Stuart Green said Barrow, who works as a van driver, had not realised
the boy suffered the injury because of the dog, but thought he had fallen over
while  being chased.

He said as soon as the police arrived Barrow, who had no previous convictions,
had immediately admitted the offence. He added that the dog, which had no
history of dangerous behaviour, had always been friendly around Barrow's own son
and was always under control when being walked.

Magistrates gave Barrow a 12-month conditional discharge and ordered him to pay
£50 compensation and £35 costs.

They did not order that the dog was put down or castrated, saying they did not
think it was necessary.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 276


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Thanet Times

                                  May 5, 2009

Young boy's terror at attack by family pet

BYLINE: Richard Spillett

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 244 words


Richard.spillett@krnmedia.co.uk

THE owner of a dog which  attacked two young boys in Broadstairs has been given
a conditional discharge.

John Barrow, 60, of Cinder Footpath, pleaded guilty to failing to control his
Alsatian dog when he appeared before Thanet magistrates on Thursday, April 22.

Prosecuting, Julie Farbrace told the court how a 12-year-old and 13-year-old
boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were walking near Barrow's house at
6.30pm on September 11 last year.

She described how  the large dog had run out of the back garden of one of the
houses and bitten the 13-year-old on the leg and the other on the shoe.

Barrow came out of the garden after the dog and managed to control it. He told
the boy, who later needed to be taken to hospital, to go home and get his leg
washed.

Defending, Stuart Green said Barrow, who works as a van driver, had not realised
the boy suffered the injury because of the dog, but thought he had fallen over
while  being chased.

He said as soon as the police arrived Barrow, who had no previous convictions,
had immediately admitted the offence. He added that the dog, which had no
history of dangerous behaviour, had always been friendly around Barrow's own son
and was always under control when being walked.

Magistrates gave Barrow a 12-month conditional discharge and ordered him to pay
£50 compensation and £35 costs.

They did not order that the dog was put down or castrated, saying they did not
think it was necessary.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 276


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             May 6, 2009 Wednesday

Mumbai terror attack charges

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 43 words


Mohammed Ajmal Kasab had 312 charges proposed against him but Judge ML
Tahiliyani said that he will announce which charges Kasab faces in the hearing.

Two others, Sabahuddin Ahmed and Faheem Ansari, face charges of supplying
reconnaissance ahead of the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                               May 8, 2009 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

Five-star Taj is back in business j;
Just five months on from terrorist attacks in Mumbai, discovers a city with
remarkable resilience

BYLINE: Roz Laws

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1234 words


The elegant lobby of the Taj Mahal Hotel is a tranquil haven from the hectic
activity of Mumbai.

Outside, the chaotic city lives life at 100mph. Inside, all seems quiet and
serene.

There's just one small clue to the fact it hasn't always been this way. In the
corner is a poignant reminder of the horrendous ordeal which guests and staff
endured five months ago, when the hotel was the centre of a terrorist attack.

It's a memorial stone,

Terrorists burst in during the early hours of November 26, throwing grenades and
shooting automatic weapons. Fire took hold and destroyed much of the Taj's
beautiful old wing.

That is still closed, undergoing renovation, but the 1970s tower reopened just
24 days after the attack, along with the restaurants and other facilities.

Now it's business as usual in Mumbai's most iconic hotel, where the service is
still five-star.

This is a remarkably resilient city and life goes on, though India's commercial
centre is not untouched by the tragedy.

Security has been stepped up to airport levels - you have to go through scanners
to enter hotels and public buildings, and armed guards and sniffer dogs prowl
the Taj, but the reassuring measures are carried out with efficiency and
politeness.

There are also large posters dotted about, saying "Together we shall vanquish
terror" and "We have to protect our city. Keep your eyes and ears open!" We can
only hope that Mumbaikars, as residents are called, pay more attention to those
than the signs urging: "Say no to honking. Silent city, better city." These are
completely ignored, along with every other highway code, by motorists. There are
few lane markations on the pot-holed roads, so four lines of cars try to squeeze
into a space meant for three, while three-wheeled rickshaws, or 'tuk-tuks', dart
about in between.

No one looks or indicates when they pull out and I'm amazed there aren't more
crashes, but somehow vehicles miss each other by whiskers.

At major intersections with no traffic lights, the right of way seems to be
determined by those who honk the loudest.

The roads were packed even at midnight when we arrived, on a Jet Airways flight.

Since Air India pulled out of Birmingham in October and last month revealed it
was not returning, the city has been without a direct link to India.

But there is a way to fly to Mumbai that's a lot less hassle than taking off
from Heathrow.

Take a Brussels Airline flight to the Belgian capital, then it's just a short
walk to, and a short wait at, the gate from which Jet Airways flights depart for
Mumbai.

Jet has been operating for 16 years but only entered the UK market four years
ago. In that time it's become the market leader, especially popular with Indians
though still raising its profile with British travellers.

I was fortunate enough to fly business, or Premiere, class, which made a huge
difference on the 3am return journey. While I changed into the
helpfully-provided pyjamas, the friendly flight staff turned my seat into a
cosy, flat bed with duvets and pillows. I slept for six hours, a rare occurrence
on a flight, helped by the 'privacy shield' between each seat.

That's also very useful if you're watching a sad film and want to have a little
cry! Jet's 'on demand' inflight entertainment service, also available in
economy, is impressive. You have a wide range of films to choose from and can
start, stop and pause them whenever you want.

As we arrived in the middle of the night, it wasn't until I opened the curtains
the next morning that I was able to appreciate the panoramic view from my room
in the Taj Mahal Hotel, overlooking the Arabian Sea and the Gateway of India, a
towering archway built to commemorate the visit of George V in 1911.

The Taj, or to give it its full name, the Taj Mahal Palace & Tower, was built in
1903 by industrialist Jamsetji Nusserwanji Tata, back when the city was called
Bombay (it still is by many residents).

It's still owned by the Tata family - his great grandson Ratan is chairman of
the Tata Group, whose vast business interests include Jaguar Land Rover. It has
played host to maharajas, kings, presidents and celebrities like John Lennon and

Yoko Ono, who stayed in their suite for their entire stay. What a lot they
missed out on! If you've seen the Oscar-winning film Slumdog Millionaire, it
will give you a sense of how vibrant, bustling and fascinating Mumbai is. Your
senses work overtime trying to take in all the colourfullydressed people, the
noise, the heat and the smells.

Mumbai is a true city of extremes. Here are some of the most expensive
properties in the world, next to Asia's biggest slum.

Almost 14 million people live an area one-third the size of Greater Lodon. More
than half live in slums, with 600,000 people crammed into Dharavi, made famous
by Slumdog Millionaire.

The ramshackle dwellings, jumbled heaps of corrugated iron, tarpaulin and
cardboard, look like they'd collapse in the slightest gust of wind.

Yet they've been around for decades and house thriving communities. There's no
shame attached to living in a Dharavi and its smart and industrious residents
are friendly and welcoming.

Mumbai is the financial centre of Asia, but it's not all work, work, work. On
Sunday afternoons, families stroll along Chowpatty Beach. On every spare bit of
land, children play cricket.

It's worth taking a boat from the Gateway of India to Elephanta Island, to see
the seventh century carvings of gods hewn into rockfaces.

Mumbai has many fine architectural examples of India's colonial history,
especially Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, still known as Victoria Terminus or VT.
This main station plays a crucial part in Slumdog Millionaire and has a
spectacular facade with ornate carvings and statues - quite unlike New Street
Station! Everywhere you look are Mumbai's distinctive black and yellow taxis,
based on a 1950s model.

There are 80,000 of them, adding to Mumbai's horrendous traffic problem. Try to
drive across the city and you'll spend most of the time in gridlock, but at
least there's always something to look at.

Mumbai is an easy city to negotiate in other ways.

It feels safe to walk about, most people speak English and almost all the signs
and street names are in English.

Slightly less frantic is the suburb of Bandra, home to many Bollywood stars and
another Taj hotel, the Lands End.

There's more space to stretch out here, so there are landscaped gardens, a
beautiful pool area and a huge atrium lobby. Its Pure restaurant offers
delicious, mostly organic, contemporary food. The service is just as good as at
the Taj Mahal. They greet you with gardlands of flowers at check-in, you don't
even need to push a lift button and we even had our own butler! But Lands End
has a much more modern feel to it.

The two styles echo Mumbai as a whole, a city of elegant history which looks to
the future..¦ Jet Airways flies daily to Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi from
Birmingham airport via its European hub in Brussels and codesharing with
Brussels Airlines. Jet Airways also flies three times daily from London Heathrow
connecting to 64 destinations in India and beyond. A return flight to Mumbai
from Birmingham starts from pounds 376.30. For information on schedules and
fares visit www.jetairways.com or call 0808 101 1199. More information on the
Taj Mahal and Taj Lands End is available from www.tajhotels.com. TRAVEL FACTS

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Grand design: The Taj Mahal Hotel and tower in Mumbai More than half
of the population of Mumbai live in slums

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                               May 8, 2009 Friday

Officers' courage is honoured;
Police officers and staff who dealt with the terrorist bomb attack in Exeter
have been awarded for their courage and professionalism.

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 106 words


More than 100 members of Devon and Cornwall police attended an awards ceremony
where they were recognised for the role they played on May 22 last year, when
Islam convert Nicky Reilly attempted to blow up a restaurant in  Princesshay.

Security staff were also honoured.

As revealed in the Echo, among those who received awards were PC Olly Henton and
PC Adam Goodman,  who were the first on the scene at the Giraffe restaurant
where Reilly made his failed attempt to detonate a home-made explosive.  The
officers were commended for their  "swift and professional" arrest of Reilly and
the reassurance they offered to members of the public.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                               May 8, 2009 Friday

Officers' courage is honoured;
Police officers and staff who dealt with the terrorist bomb attack in Exeter
have been awarded for their courage and professionalism.

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 106 words


More than 100 members of Devon and Cornwall police attended an awards ceremony
where they were recognised for the role they played on May 22 last year, when
Islam convert Nicky Reilly attempted to blow up a restaurant in  Princesshay.

Security staff were also honoured.

As revealed in the Echo, among those who received awards were PC Olly Henton and
PC Adam Goodman,  who were the first on the scene at the Giraffe restaurant
where Reilly made his failed attempt to detonate a home-made explosive.  The
officers were commended for their  "swift and professional" arrest of Reilly and
the reassurance they offered to members of the public.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                               May 8, 2009 Friday

Terror bomb officers awarded for courage;
Police officers and staff who dealt with the terrorist bomb attack in Exeter
have been commended for their courage and professionalism.

BYLINE: Alice Wright

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 528 words


More than 100 members of Devon and Cornwall police attended an awards ceremony
where they were recognised for the role they played on May 22 last year, when
Islam convert Nicky Reilly attempted to blow up a busy restaurant in the
Princesshay shopping quarter of the city.

Security staff were also honoured for the assistance they provided.

Among those who received awards were PC Olly Henton and PC Adam Goodman,  who
were the first on the scene at the Giraffe restaurant where Reilly made his
failed attempt to detonate a home-made explosive.

Speaking yesterday,  PC Henton said they were on patrol in the High Street when
they got the call about an incident in the busy family restaurant.

When they arrived on the scene, they found there was an unexploded bomb and
realised they needed to evacuate the area as quickly as possible.

PC Goodman said: "There wasn't time to be worried about our safety. We made
joint decisions and our training instincts kicked in."

They added that although they had talked about this kind of incident in their
training, it was still a shock when they found themselves dealing with a
terrorist attack.

PC Goodman said: "I certainly didn't expect it to happen on our shift."

At the time, the city centre was extremely busy with shoppers and workers as it
was lunchtime on a weekday.

The officers were commended for their  "swift and professional" arrest of Reilly
and the reassurance they offered to members of the public.

They were also praised for the communication skills they showed in calming
Reilly down as he became increasingly agitated and for gaining his trust while
recording significant comments he made.

Chief Constable Stephen Otter commended the officers along with other police
staff and members of the security team at an awards ceremony on Wednesday
attended by the Vice Lord Lieutenant of Devon, Sir John Cave and the High
Sheriff of Devon, David Fursdon.

Speaking yesterday, Mr Otter said the ceremony recognised the "extraordinary
service" staff gave on the day of the attack and in the aftermath - both in
reassuring the public and in gathering the evidence needed to bring a successful
court case.

Reilly pleaded guilty to attempted murder and planning a terrorist attack and
was jailed for life at the Old Bailey in January this year.

Mr Otter said: "Who would have thought that a suicide bomber was going to come
to the centre of Exeter and try and kill and maim people?"

He added that it was "remarkable" the way police officers and staff had coped
with the incident and also praised the public response, particularly a doctor
who was in the restaurant Reilly tried to blow up and went back in to tend to
his injuries.

Reilly was the only casualty of the attack.

Mr Otter was also proud to see how well equipped Devon and Cornwall police were
to deal with a terrorist attack. And he added that, although there were often
calls from the public to see more police on the beat, he hoped an incident such
as this showed that resources were being used wisely.

He said: "It showed that we're prepared for this. We've had to try and invest
heavily in this area of business and it's part of the police that the public
don't necessarily see."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                               May 8, 2009 Friday

Terror bomb officers awarded for courage;
Police officers and staff who dealt with the terrorist bomb attack in Exeter
have been commended for their courage and professionalism.

BYLINE: Alice Wright

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 528 words


More than 100 members of Devon and Cornwall police attended an awards ceremony
where they were recognised for the role they played on May 22 last year, when
Islam convert Nicky Reilly attempted to blow up a busy restaurant in the
Princesshay shopping quarter of the city.

Security staff were also honoured for the assistance they provided.

Among those who received awards were PC Olly Henton and PC Adam Goodman,  who
were the first on the scene at the Giraffe restaurant where Reilly made his
failed attempt to detonate a home-made explosive.

Speaking yesterday,  PC Henton said they were on patrol in the High Street when
they got the call about an incident in the busy family restaurant.

When they arrived on the scene, they found there was an unexploded bomb and
realised they needed to evacuate the area as quickly as possible.

PC Goodman said: "There wasn't time to be worried about our safety. We made
joint decisions and our training instincts kicked in."

They added that although they had talked about this kind of incident in their
training, it was still a shock when they found themselves dealing with a
terrorist attack.

PC Goodman said: "I certainly didn't expect it to happen on our shift."

At the time, the city centre was extremely busy with shoppers and workers as it
was lunchtime on a weekday.

The officers were commended for their  "swift and professional" arrest of Reilly
and the reassurance they offered to members of the public.

They were also praised for the communication skills they showed in calming
Reilly down as he became increasingly agitated and for gaining his trust while
recording significant comments he made.

Chief Constable Stephen Otter commended the officers along with other police
staff and members of the security team at an awards ceremony on Wednesday
attended by the Vice Lord Lieutenant of Devon, Sir John Cave and the High
Sheriff of Devon, David Fursdon.

Speaking yesterday, Mr Otter said the ceremony recognised the "extraordinary
service" staff gave on the day of the attack and in the aftermath - both in
reassuring the public and in gathering the evidence needed to bring a successful
court case.

Reilly pleaded guilty to attempted murder and planning a terrorist attack and
was jailed for life at the Old Bailey in January this year.

Mr Otter said: "Who would have thought that a suicide bomber was going to come
to the centre of Exeter and try and kill and maim people?"

He added that it was "remarkable" the way police officers and staff had coped
with the incident and also praised the public response, particularly a doctor
who was in the restaurant Reilly tried to blow up and went back in to tend to
his injuries.

Reilly was the only casualty of the attack.

Mr Otter was also proud to see how well equipped Devon and Cornwall police were
to deal with a terrorist attack. And he added that, although there were often
calls from the public to see more police on the beat, he hoped an incident such
as this showed that resources were being used wisely.

He said: "It showed that we're prepared for this. We've had to try and invest
heavily in this area of business and it's part of the police that the public
don't necessarily see."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                               May 8, 2009 Friday

Terror bomb officers awarded for courage;
Police officers and staff who dealt with the terrorist bomb attack in Exeter
have been commended for their courage and professionalism.

BYLINE: Alice Wright

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 528 words


More than 100 members of Devon and Cornwall police attended an awards ceremony
where they were recognised for the role they played on May 22 last year, when
Islam convert Nicky Reilly attempted to blow up a busy restaurant in the
Princesshay shopping quarter of the city.

Security staff were also honoured for the assistance they provided.

Among those who received awards were PC Olly Henton and PC Adam Goodman,  who
were the first on the scene at the Giraffe restaurant where Reilly made his
failed attempt to detonate a home-made explosive.

Speaking yesterday,  PC Henton said they were on patrol in the High Street when
they got the call about an incident in the busy family restaurant.

When they arrived on the scene, they found there was an unexploded bomb and
realised they needed to evacuate the area as quickly as possible.

PC Goodman said: "There wasn't time to be worried about our safety. We made
joint decisions and our training instincts kicked in."

They added that although they had talked about this kind of incident in their
training, it was still a shock when they found themselves dealing with a
terrorist attack.

PC Goodman said: "I certainly didn't expect it to happen on our shift."

At the time, the city centre was extremely busy with shoppers and workers as it
was lunchtime on a weekday.

The officers were commended for their  "swift and professional" arrest of Reilly
and the reassurance they offered to members of the public.

They were also praised for the communication skills they showed in calming
Reilly down as he became increasingly agitated and for gaining his trust while
recording significant comments he made.

Chief Constable Stephen Otter commended the officers along with other police
staff and members of the security team at an awards ceremony on Wednesday
attended by the Vice Lord Lieutenant of Devon, Sir John Cave and the High
Sheriff of Devon, David Fursdon.

Speaking yesterday, Mr Otter said the ceremony recognised the "extraordinary
service" staff gave on the day of the attack and in the aftermath - both in
reassuring the public and in gathering the evidence needed to bring a successful
court case.

Reilly pleaded guilty to attempted murder and planning a terrorist attack and
was jailed for life at the Old Bailey in January this year.

Mr Otter said: "Who would have thought that a suicide bomber was going to come
to the centre of Exeter and try and kill and maim people?"

He added that it was "remarkable" the way police officers and staff had coped
with the incident and also praised the public response, particularly a doctor
who was in the restaurant Reilly tried to blow up and went back in to tend to
his injuries.

Reilly was the only casualty of the attack.

Mr Otter was also proud to see how well equipped Devon and Cornwall police were
to deal with a terrorist attack. And he added that, although there were often
calls from the public to see more police on the beat, he hoped an incident such
as this showed that resources were being used wisely.

He said: "It showed that we're prepared for this. We've had to try and invest
heavily in this area of business and it's part of the police that the public
don't necessarily see."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 10, 2009 Sunday

Moscow investigators rule out terrorist attack, sabotage as cause for gas
pipeline fire

LENGTH: 193 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 10 May: The Investigations Committee under the prosecutor's office of
the Russian Federation rules out a terrorist attack or an act of sabotage as a
cause for the fire on a gas pipeline in southwestern Moscow.

"The investigation is not considering a terrorist attack or an act of sabotage.
We are talking about a man-made accident," Anatoliy Bagmet, the head of the
Investigations Directorate of the Investigations Committee under the
prosecutor's office of the Russian Federation in Moscow, told Interfax news
agency.

A procedural decision on the accident has not been made so far, he added.

"The main thing is that there are no casualties. Several people have been
injured. The burning continues. The issue of whether criminal proceedings should
be instigated will be considered later," said Bagmet who has been at the scene
since the beginning of the emergency situation.

[In a later report at 1134 gmt ITAR-TASS news agency said that the fire at the
gas pipeline in southwestern Moscow was extinguished at about 1130 gmt.]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0428 gmt 10 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              May 11, 2009 Monday

Night of terror as gang attack house

BYLINE: IAIN ROBINSON

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 425 words


Police are hunting a gang of youths who threatened a man and vandalised his
house before returning to set fire to his car.

Up to 10 masked teenagers are thought to have carried out the vandalism and
arson attack in Emberton Street, Newcastle, over six hours on Friday night and
the early hours of Saturday.

The incidents began when someone smashed Paul Hobson's patio doors after
climbing into his garden at about 9pm.

Moments later, they shattered the rear screen of the 45-year-old's Rover saloon
car, which was parked at the side of the house.

Mr Hobson said: "I was just watching TV when my dog started barking and I heard
a crash.

"I ran to the kitchen and saw that someone had broken the patio doors.

"Then I heard a smashing sound at the side of the house.

"I went outside and found that the rear screen of the car had been put through
and there were three youths standing in my driveway wearing hoodies with scarves
over their faces. One of them was holding a boulder, which he threw at me.

"I dodged it and was about to go and sort them out when about six or seven more
youths came around the corner."

Mr Hobson ran back inside and locked the door before calling the police.

"They thew a brick through my front window, but then they ran off and things
went quiet. I was too frightened and angry to go to bed, but I must eventually
have fallen asleep on the settee because I was suddenly woken up at about 3.30am
by a loud banging at the front door and someone shouting to get out because the
house was on fire," he said.

"When I got outside I found that my car was blazing  and the side of the house
was starting to catch fire was well."

The fire destroyed the Rover and badly damaged a second car which was parked on
the driveway.

Firefighters managed to stop the flames from entering the semi-detached house,
but the fire damaged the side of the property, charring electric and gas supply
lines.

Mr Hobson is now in temporary accommodation waiting to be re-housed by his
landlord, Aspire Housing.

He said: "I can't think why someone has done this to me. I haven't upset anyone
and I just try to live a quiet life."

Detectives from Newcastle CID have appealed for witnesses of the attacks to come
forward.

A Staffordshire Police spokesman said: "This matter is being treated very
seriously.

"We are also investigating a report earlier that evening that damage had been
caused to vehicles at the same location. We would like to make an appeal to
anyone who has information about  these incidents."

Witnesses are asked to call Staffordshire Police on 0300 1234455

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2009 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              May 11, 2009 Monday

Night of terror as gang attack house

BYLINE: IAIN ROBINSON

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 425 words


Police are hunting a gang of youths who threatened a man and vandalised his
house before returning to set fire to his car.

Up to 10 masked teenagers are thought to have carried out the vandalism and
arson attack in Emberton Street, Newcastle, over six hours on Friday night and
the early hours of Saturday.

The incidents began when someone smashed Paul Hobson's patio doors after
climbing into his garden at about 9pm.

Moments later, they shattered the rear screen of the 45-year-old's Rover saloon
car, which was parked at the side of the house.

Mr Hobson said: "I was just watching TV when my dog started barking and I heard
a crash.

"I ran to the kitchen and saw that someone had broken the patio doors.

"Then I heard a smashing sound at the side of the house.

"I went outside and found that the rear screen of the car had been put through
and there were three youths standing in my driveway wearing hoodies with scarves
over their faces. One of them was holding a boulder, which he threw at me.

"I dodged it and was about to go and sort them out when about six or seven more
youths came around the corner."

Mr Hobson ran back inside and locked the door before calling the police.

"They thew a brick through my front window, but then they ran off and things
went quiet. I was too frightened and angry to go to bed, but I must eventually
have fallen asleep on the settee because I was suddenly woken up at about 3.30am
by a loud banging at the front door and someone shouting to get out because the
house was on fire," he said.

"When I got outside I found that my car was blazing  and the side of the house
was starting to catch fire was well."

The fire destroyed the Rover and badly damaged a second car which was parked on
the driveway.

Firefighters managed to stop the flames from entering the semi-detached house,
but the fire damaged the side of the property, charring electric and gas supply
lines.

Mr Hobson is now in temporary accommodation waiting to be re-housed by his
landlord, Aspire Housing.

He said: "I can't think why someone has done this to me. I haven't upset anyone
and I just try to live a quiet life."

Detectives from Newcastle CID have appealed for witnesses of the attacks to come
forward.

A Staffordshire Police spokesman said: "This matter is being treated very
seriously.

"We are also investigating a report earlier that evening that damage had been
caused to vehicles at the same location. We would like to make an appeal to
anyone who has information about  these incidents."

Witnesses are asked to call Staffordshire Police on 0300 1234455

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2009 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              May 11, 2009 Monday

Night of terror as gang attack house

BYLINE: IAIN ROBINSON

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 425 words


Police are hunting a gang of youths who threatened a man and vandalised his
house before returning to set fire to his car.

Up to 10 masked teenagers are thought to have carried out the vandalism and
arson attack in Emberton Street, Newcastle, over six hours on Friday night and
the early hours of Saturday.

The incidents began when someone smashed Paul Hobson's patio doors after
climbing into his garden at about 9pm.

Moments later, they shattered the rear screen of the 45-year-old's Rover saloon
car, which was parked at the side of the house.

Mr Hobson said: "I was just watching TV when my dog started barking and I heard
a crash.

"I ran to the kitchen and saw that someone had broken the patio doors.

"Then I heard a smashing sound at the side of the house.

"I went outside and found that the rear screen of the car had been put through
and there were three youths standing in my driveway wearing hoodies with scarves
over their faces. One of them was holding a boulder, which he threw at me.

"I dodged it and was about to go and sort them out when about six or seven more
youths came around the corner."

Mr Hobson ran back inside and locked the door before calling the police.

"They thew a brick through my front window, but then they ran off and things
went quiet. I was too frightened and angry to go to bed, but I must eventually
have fallen asleep on the settee because I was suddenly woken up at about 3.30am
by a loud banging at the front door and someone shouting to get out because the
house was on fire," he said.

"When I got outside I found that my car was blazing  and the side of the house
was starting to catch fire was well."

The fire destroyed the Rover and badly damaged a second car which was parked on
the driveway.

Firefighters managed to stop the flames from entering the semi-detached house,
but the fire damaged the side of the property, charring electric and gas supply
lines.

Mr Hobson is now in temporary accommodation waiting to be re-housed by his
landlord, Aspire Housing.

He said: "I can't think why someone has done this to me. I haven't upset anyone
and I just try to live a quiet life."

Detectives from Newcastle CID have appealed for witnesses of the attacks to come
forward.

A Staffordshire Police spokesman said: "This matter is being treated very
seriously.

"We are also investigating a report earlier that evening that damage had been
caused to vehicles at the same location. We would like to make an appeal to
anyone who has information about  these incidents."

Witnesses are asked to call Staffordshire Police on 0300 1234455

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2009 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 12, 2009 Tuesday

I can't forget terror attack, says Broad;
Watching film with son Stuart brought back memories of Lahore nightmare

BYLINE: Simon Briggs

SECTION: SPORT; Cricket; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 593  words


WHEN you have come through a life-threatening experience, the flashbacks can hit
you at the most unexpected moments. Chris Broad, the match referee who survived
the Lahore terror attacks in March, spent last weekend looking forward to a
relaxing Sunday night at the cinema with son Stuart and daughter Gemma. Little
did he know that the first scene would feature an assassination.

"We went to watch State of Play,'' Broad said yesterday. "It is the new Helen
Mirren movie, my kind of film, but we were sat right at the front of the
auditorium and the film starts with an attack, a bullet being fired at one of
the characters. Instantly I recognised it as exactly the same sound as I heard
when I was lying in the van at Liberty Roundabout. It's very difficult to
describe, but it is the real thudding sound of a bullet hitting a body.

"As soon as I heard it I thought, 'Oh, ----.' It was unbelievably real. That is
probably the first film I have seen where there has been gunfire and a very
lifelike event, and because I have witnessed it, perhaps it brought it all back.
Or maybe it was just that the sound was so loud it made me shudder.''

In Lahore, the terrorists' bullets ended the lives of seven policemen and a bus
driver. Yet somehow the chief targets, the Sri Lankan cricketers and match
officials, have all been able to recover from their injuries and go back to
work. This takes real courage, especially in the case of Ahsan Raza, the fourth
official who suffered a collapsed lung and a damaged liver after a bullet struck
him in the back.

Broad himself spent much of last month refereeing the World Cup qualifying
tournament in South Africa, an event he described as the perfect way to ease
back into the job. "It was a nice, low-profile series, and they all behaved
themselves.'' But he, like fellow umpires Simon Taufel and Steve Davis, has

had to undergo counselling for post-traumatic stress.

"It will never leave me,'' Broad says now, "and you can't erase memories like
that. But hopefully there will be some good that comes out of it. It's fantastic
news that Ahsan Raza has actually umpired a game since then. I've been in touch
with him on email and he has made a remarkable recovery in such a short space of
time. The problem is that with no international cricket going back to Pakistan,
he is going to have it tough in the next couple of years. Umpiring is his only
source of income.''

In the future, Broad says he will not be avoiding any particular destinations -
not even Pakistan, when it eventually resumes its place on the international
sporting circuit. In the meantime, though, he feels it is imperative for the ICC
to take better control of security provisions.

If there has been any positive outcome from the tragedy, it has been the global
realisation that the issue is too important to be left in the hands of the home
board. The ICC is awaiting the results of a wide-ranging review from Lord
Condon, the former commissioner of the Metropolitan Police.

"You can never be totally confident that this sort of thing won't happen,'' said
Broad. "But you want to get to the situation where security is thought about and
properly considered, and not just for players, but officials too.''

As for Broad's next commission, that has yet to be officially released. But it
is worth noting that one of the three host venues for next month's World
Twenty20 championships is Trent Bridge - a ground he can walk to in around 10
minutes. Asked yesterday whether he was comfortable with his schedule, he smiled
and replied: "Yes. Very comfortable.''

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday

Security tightened to prevent terror attack in Pakistan's northern areas

LENGTH: 155 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Gilgit-based religious organization
invites Baitullah Mehsud to carry out attacks" published by Pakistani newspaper
Khabrain on 12 May

Gilgit: A religious party in Baltistan, Gilgit, has invited the famous warlord,
Baitullah Mehsud, to carry out suicide attacks in the area. In response,
Interior Ministry's national crime management cell has advised the inspector
general of police, the deputy commissioner of Gilgit, and Diyamir, and the home
secretary of Gilgit-Baltistan to keep close surveillance on religious
congregations and make special security arrangements for key personalities.

In view of these instructions, the Home Department in Gilgit has tightened
security in all districts. To forestall any possible terror attack, the Home
Department has ordered strict security measures for religious congregations and
key personalities.

Source: Khabrain, Islamabad, in Urdu 12 May 09, pp 6, 8

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday

Abkhazia reports Georgian "terrorist attack" at hydropower plant; none hurt

LENGTH: 208 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Sukhumi, 13 May: A terrorist attack has been committed against specialists from
the Siemens company on the premises of the Inguri hydropower plant in Abkhazia's
Gali District, the chief of the Gali District internal affairs directorate,
Laurens Koghonia, told Interfax on Wednesday [13 May].

He said that at approximately 1745 Moscow time [1345 gmt], a UAZ vehicle
carrying specialists from the Siemens company hit a trip wire that stretched
across the road at the end of a tunnel leading to the turbine room of the Inguri
station, triggering a RGD-5 grenade. The specialists were heading home to the
settlement for electricians in the village of Cheghali.

"No-one was hurt in the blast; insignificant damage was done to the car,"
Koghonia said, going on to describe the terrorist attack as "yet another
provocation by the Georgian special services".

[BBCM note: The Inguri River forms the administrative borderline between
Abkhazia and Georgian-controlled territory. The damn of the Inguri hydropower
plant is located in Georgian-controlled territory while the station's generators
are located in separatist-held Abkhazia.]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1504 gmt 13 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Cornish Guardian

                                  May 13, 2009

Police officer is commended for work after terrorist bomb;
A terrorist attack that rocked Exeter when a home-made bomb exploded in a busy
shopping centre has led to a commendation for a Newquay police officer.

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 397 words


Det Sgt Martin South received the chief constable's commendation this week for
his co-ordination both of the crime scene at the Giraffe restaurant in
Princesshay shopping precinct, the prisoner in hospital and the forensic
examination of the suspects' home address by SO15 satellite officers from the
South West.

On May 22 last year, a massive police operation was launched after the explosive
device was detonated

Mohamad Abdulaziz Rashid Saeed-Alim (Nicky Reilly) had travelled to Exeter from
his home in Plymouth carrying a rucksack containing the bomb which partially
denoted in the restaurant toilet.

Now, nearly a year to the day, officers who were involved in piecing together
vital information in connection with the incident have been honoured for their
work.

Det Sgt South, a satellite officer for the Metropolitan Police's Counter
Terrorism Command unit SO15 and crime scene manager, played a lead role in
collating the evidence.

"I was up in Exeter for a meeting at the time and when I finished I was
intending to visit  Exeter Hospital to see my dad who was dying of cancer," he
said.

"I then got a call from a colleague who said a nail bomb had gone off at a cafe
in the city.

"I thought he was joking because we don't have things like that in Devon and
Cornwall; we live in a quiet and tranquil part of the world. How wrong I was.

"When I arrived at the scene, I could see that there was confusion - people are
not used to this kind of thing happening in this part of the world.

"I took a co-ordination role, making sure the right experts were called to the
scene."

Lt Mark Northcote and Chief Petty Officer Diver John Ramshaw from the Royal Navy
Bomb Disposal Team were called in by Det Sgt South to make the scene safe.

A mechanical robot, known as the Wheelbarrow was sent into the cafe before
Ramshaw and Northcote went in to collect the evidence and give the site the
all-clear.

Det Sgt South said the work was exceptional. "These guys were measured and
calculated and did a fantastic job in the circumstances. To be able to get
digital forensic evidence, taking pictures of the scene wearing the gear they
had was incredible. For me personally, they made our team's job 100% easier and
I can't give them enough credit."

The fact that the device exploded was also a rarity.

Det Sgt South said: "We don't usually get detonations; it is normally stopped
before it gets that far.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 59


                        Copyright 2009 Cornish Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Cornish Guardian

                                  May 13, 2009

Police officer is commended for work after terrorist bomb;
A terrorist attack that rocked Exeter when a home-made bomb exploded in a busy
shopping centre has led to a commendation for a Newquay police officer.

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 397 words


Det Sgt Martin South received the chief constable's commendation this week for
his co-ordination both of the crime scene at the Giraffe restaurant in
Princesshay shopping precinct, the prisoner in hospital and the forensic
examination of the suspects' home address by SO15 satellite officers from the
South West.

On May 22 last year, a massive police operation was launched after the explosive
device was detonated

Mohamad Abdulaziz Rashid Saeed-Alim (Nicky Reilly) had travelled to Exeter from
his home in Plymouth carrying a rucksack containing the bomb which partially
denoted in the restaurant toilet.

Now, nearly a year to the day, officers who were involved in piecing together
vital information in connection with the incident have been honoured for their
work.

Det Sgt South, a satellite officer for the Metropolitan Police's Counter
Terrorism Command unit SO15 and crime scene manager, played a lead role in
collating the evidence.

"I was up in Exeter for a meeting at the time and when I finished I was
intending to visit  Exeter Hospital to see my dad who was dying of cancer," he
said.

"I then got a call from a colleague who said a nail bomb had gone off at a cafe
in the city.

"I thought he was joking because we don't have things like that in Devon and
Cornwall; we live in a quiet and tranquil part of the world. How wrong I was.

"When I arrived at the scene, I could see that there was confusion - people are
not used to this kind of thing happening in this part of the world.

"I took a co-ordination role, making sure the right experts were called to the
scene."

Lt Mark Northcote and Chief Petty Officer Diver John Ramshaw from the Royal Navy
Bomb Disposal Team were called in by Det Sgt South to make the scene safe.

A mechanical robot, known as the Wheelbarrow was sent into the cafe before
Ramshaw and Northcote went in to collect the evidence and give the site the
all-clear.

Det Sgt South said the work was exceptional. "These guys were measured and
calculated and did a fantastic job in the circumstances. To be able to get
digital forensic evidence, taking pictures of the scene wearing the gear they
had was incredible. For me personally, they made our team's job 100% easier and
I can't give them enough credit."

The fact that the device exploded was also a rarity.

Det Sgt South said: "We don't usually get detonations; it is normally stopped
before it gets that far.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 59


                        Copyright 2009 Cornish Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             May 13, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Ulster Edition

IT TOOK FOUR OF US TO GET THE OTHER DOG TO LET GO OF MOLLY;
ULSTER ACTRESS EMMA REVEALS ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: CONNLA YOUNG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 309 words


ULSTER actress Emma Kearney has spoken of her terror after she and her pet pooch
were attacked by a stray dog during a recent visit to her home town..

Shocked Emma last night described how a stray lurcher pounced as she and pet
West Highland terrier Molly enjoyed a late-night stroll through Magherafelt, Co
Derry, at around 11pm last Monday.

She screamed out in terror after they were set upon by the crazed dog as they
walked along Hospital Road in the town.

Emma, who played Rita Brannigan in hit UTV show Emmerdale, has also appeared in
a host of shows including Shameless, Coronation Street, Hollyoaks and Spooks.

During the attack the 25-year-old actress suffered nine puncture wounds to her
arms and hands as she fought to pull little Molly from the clenched jaws of the
vicious lurcher. She was later treated at the Mid

Ulster Hospital for her injuries. Molly also suffered multiple wounds during the
attack and was treated by a vet.

Emma said: "I saw the dog in a car park and before I knew it, it was beside me.
All I heard was Molly screaming.

"The other dog had its jaws locked in Moll's stomach and I was just trying to
get it away from her. I just couldn't get it away and then it turned on me.

"Then three fellas came to help me. It literally took the four of us to get the
dog to let go of Molly.

"I have bite marks right up my arm, it's bandaged at the minute and I can't move
it.

"I'm an animal lover and I want to urge people to be responsible with their
animals, to know where they are at.

"If this had happened to an elderly person or young person I dread to think what
the outcome would have been.

"Thankfully Molly survived her ordeal but she is traumatised." A rising star of
the small screen, Emma is currently resting at her mum's house in Magherafelt
after a four-month stint touring the UK as Thelma in the acclaimed play, A Pack
of Lies.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEST PALS Injured Emma in bandage with Molly

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             May 14, 2009 Thursday

Couple's ordeal as armed pirates attacked cruise;
A Couple have spoken of their terror after their cruise ship came under gunfire
from Somali pirates.

BYLINE: JON ROBINSON

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 172 words


Christine and Terry Beevers, of Stapleford, were told by crew to lock themselves
in their cabins, turn out the lights and not to answer the door to anyone as the
pirates attempted to board the MSC Melody.

The couple said they feared for their lives as they heard automatic gunfire.

The pirates were eventually repelled and the all clear was given hours later.
The couple returned home "shaken but relieved," on Saturday.

They were on a 22-day cruise when the ship was attacked about 180 nautical miles
north of the Seychelles Islands and 600 nautical miles off the Somali coast, on
April 25.

Mrs Beevers, 66, said: "My first thought was 'My God, what the hell is
happening? We're not going to get off this ship.' It was surreal."

Despite news reports that no one was injured, Mrs Beevers said she spoke to a
woman whose husband had suffered a leg injury and was flown back to England when
they arrived in Jordan.

MSC Cruises said the attack happened in what was considered a safe zone and crew
were able to "promptly tackle the emergency".

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2009 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 15, 2009 Friday

No more amnesty for militants after latest terror attack, Chechen leader says

LENGTH: 373 words


Excerpt from report by Russian state news agency RIA Novosti

Groznyy, 15 May: Chechen President Ramzan Kadyrov has decided not to offer any
more amnesties to militants following the explosion in the centre of Groznyy
which was carried out by a suicide bomber today.

"Up to today, I did everything possible in the search for a compromise with
those whose hands are not stained with blood. They were offered an amnesty,
mistakes were forgiven and they were permitted to return to peaceful life. The
situation has now changed. I swear there will be no more mercy for them now.
There will be no more amnesty or calls to come home," Kadyrov said at a meeting
with religious leaders and residents of Chechnya following Friday prayers.
[Passage omitted]

"If the bandits who subject the people to suffering are prepared to die for
their false ideas, then I am also prepared to fight them to the end," he added.

Parents whose sons remain in militants' ranks also bear responsibility for their
fate, Kadyrov said.

"I know that parents see their sons and call them, and wish them blessings. Such
parents should realise that their sons bring grief and suffering to the people.
If they need them alive, let them worry about getting them home. No-one is
planning to stand on ceremony with them any more," he added. [Passage omitted]

"Chechens have always respected and loved Islam, and respected it. My ancestors
were killed and died in prison due to love for this religion. So why do some
foreigners consider themselves more Muslim than me?" Kadyrov asked.

The Chechen Interior Ministry established that the terrorist who set off the
bomb was a member of Doku Umarov's armed group, and lived in Ingushetia, where
he had arrived from Turkey.

"Is that fugitive thief and criminal Doku Umarov more observant than us of the
canons of Islam? They cannot reconcile themselves with the fact that there will
be no extremist trends in the republic.

"The Chechen people will live in the republic in peace and harmony, and we will
be Muslims in the same way as our fathers," Kadyrov said.

The religious leaders who gathered for Friday prayers cursed those who organized
and carried out the terror attack.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1737 gmt 15 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 15, 2009 Friday

TV says large-scale terrorist attack prevented in Chechnya as two police die

LENGTH: 229 words


Text of report by Russian official state television channel Rossiya on 15 May

[Presenter] An attempt has been foiled in Groznyy to carry out the first
large-scale terrorist attack since the lifting of the counterterrorism operation
regime. At about 1100 Moscow time [0700 gmt], two unidentified people tried to
approach the building of the republic's Interior Ministry. They were stopped at
a checkpoint just 300 metres from the main entrance for verification of their
documents. When two employees of the guarding battalion approached the bandits,
a powerful explosion went off. The policemen and the two terrorist were killed.

Operatives who had come to the scene found undamaged documents, on the basis of
which they are now trying to establish the identities of the criminals.

[Ruslan Alkhanov, captioned as interior minister of the Chechen Republic] Two
civilians tried to go through a checkpoint. Policemen did not let them through.
As a result of this a bandit blew himself up. Really, paying with their lives,
our two employees prevented big casualties. They will be nominated for state
awards. The families of the killed employees will be given all the necessary
help.

[Video starting from 13:0057 shows an ambulance and a police car in a street;
men working at the scene, which is sealed off, Alkhanov speaking.]

Source: Rossiya TV, Moscow, in Russian 1300 gmt 15 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday

More terror attacks in Chechnya "thwarted", four militants killed - official

LENGTH: 303 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Groznyy, 16 May: Militants planned to commit a series of terrorist attacks in
Groznyy over the last 24 hours, and these attempts were thwarted, Ruslan
Alkhanov, the head of the Chechen branch of the [Russian] Interior Ministry, has
told Interfax.

"Over the last 24 hours militants made attempts to commit a series of
high-profile terrorist attacks in Groznyy. Officers of law-enforcement agencies
managed to take forestalling measures which made it possible to destroy the
group of terrorists in various districts of Groznyy," Alkhanov said.

Yesterday evening and night [15 May] four militants were destroyed who were part
of the group of Beslan Chagiyev, a resident of Ingushetia who blew up an
improvised explosive device on Ulitsa Isayeva [street], he said.

The minister said that Taymir Baydulayev, Adam Belimkhanov and Alvi Chersiyev
had been killed in Groznyy.

He said that "Chersiyev is also a resident of Ingushetia and lives in the
village of Arshty".

Furthermore, in the Zavodskoy district of Groznyy 2 km from checkpoint No 39,
located near the village of Alkhan-Kala, policemen attempted to stop a car in
which an active member of Mussa Davletmirzayev's illegal armed group was
travelling. He opened fire and was destroyed by return fire, Alkhanov said.

He said that a search of the GAZ-3110 [Volga] car revealed on the back seat a
152-mm shell with wires attached that was ready to be planted for an explosion.
The militant was also found to be carrying a Makarov pistol and two grenades.

There is complete proof that all the four militants that were killed and
Chagiyev were sent to Groznyy to commit high-profile terrorist attacks, Alkhanov
said. [Passage omitted: background]

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0611 gmt 15 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday

Indian authorities issue alert over possible terror attacks on oil tankers

LENGTH: 192 words


Text of report headlined "LeT may attack JNPT, says Intelligence report"
published by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 15 May: The Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust [JNPT] here in India's western
metropolis Friday received an intelligence report stating that LeT
[Lashkar-i-Toiba, militant group] militants could target petroleum product
tankers, a top official said here Friday.

"We received an email today from intelligence stating that there could be an
attack by LeT through sea route," JNPT secretary S.K. Kaul told PTI.

The intelligence report mentioned in the email stated that the LeT could target
private tankers and could blow up tankers carrying petroleum products, he said.

We have written to the Commissioner of Navi Mumbai police, Customs authorities,
CISF and private security providers to enhance security following the report,
Kaul said.

However, Additional Commissioner of Police (ATS) Sukhwinder Singh refused to
comment on the reports.

According to official data, JNPT, one of the major ports on the west coast,
handled approximately five crore tonnes of containers between 2008-09.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1630gmt 15 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Belfast News

                             May 16, 2009 Saturday

Woman in arson attack terror

LENGTH: 67 words



HIGHLIGHT: A TERRIFIED woman escaped uninjured today after an arson attack at
her home.


Two wheelie bins were set on fire at her property, with one placed next to the
door of her flat and the second near an oil tank.

Firefighters were called to the scene, in the Ballysaggart Park area of
Dungannon, at around 4.30am and extinguished the small blaze.

The PSNI said one woman who was inside the flat was uninjured and appealed for
anyone in the area who noticed any unusual activity come forward.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BELF


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

Bangladesh: Arrested militant says banned Islamic group planning terror attacks

LENGTH: 459 words


Text of report by Shariful Islam headlined "Bombs Being Made for JMB Operation,
Confesses 'Boma' MizanBbut ClaimsHhe's Not Aware of Targets of Attack" published
by Bangladeshi newspaper The Daily Star website on 18 May

Banned Islamist outfit Jama'atul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) had been planning
terrorist attacks and asked its now detained explosives expert 'Boma Mizan' to
have some bombs ready for use.

Mizan, now on remand, has disclosed this to Rab interrogators. He, however,
claims he knows nothing about the targets. In interrogation, he also said the
JMB top brass were supposed to firm up the plans at a meeting on May 15, the day
after he was captured from Taltola in the city.

The meeting was to be held in Joypurhat. Moulana Saidur Rahman, who is now at
the JMB helm, was supposed to be in attendance, one of the Rab officials
quizzing Mizan told The Daily Star yesterday.

"He said he doesn't know anything about the targets, as he was arrested before
the planned meeting," said the Rab official requesting not to be named.

Saidur's son Bashar, who too is a key figure in JMB, met Mizan at Gulistan on
May 8 and asked to make bombs.

The detained JMB explosives expert also told the interrogators that his deputy
Shishir or the outfit's military wing commander Sohel Mahfuz alias 'Hatkata
Mahfuz' might fill in for him.

He also said the JMB high command would give him Tk 30,000 a month to cover
personal and organisational expenses. Bashar and Sohel Mahfuz would hand him the
money.

Investigators said lately they have gathered that the militants are most
organised in Dhaka, Gazipur, Joypurhat, Comilla and Chittagong districts.

They have also got some vital information about several members of
Majlish-e-Shura, highest policy-making body of JMB, and their activities.

Saidur, who once was ameer of Habiganj district Jamaat-e-Islami, took charge of
JMB after the execution of its top six leaders including Shaekh Abdur Rahman and
Siddiqul Islam alias Bangla Bhai in March 2007.

Besides him, Rahman alias Zafar, Sohel Mahfuz, Bashar, Mehedi, Mustafiz alias
'Mostafiz Sir', Sayeem, Ejaj, Abir, Nazmul alias 'Bhagne Shahed' and Shahid
alias Osman are in the top echelons of the outlawed group.

Saidur's another son AHM Shahim was JMB's IT expert, and has been behind bars
since arrest in 2005.

Talking to The Daily Star, Director Intelligence of Rab Major Azim Ahmed said,
"We're working to hunt down the militants including their top leaders. But you
know how they are always in flight."

Following up information from Mizan, the elite crime-busters have already busted
a bomb-making factory at East Monipur in Mirpur and recovered a huge cache of
explosives, detonators and grenade's outer casings.

Source: The Daily Star website, Dhaka, in English 18 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

Chechen police on high alert due to recent terrorist attack

LENGTH: 602 words


Text of report by Russian Kavkazskiy Uzel website, specializing in news from the
Caucasus, on 18 May

18 May: Units of the Chechen law enforcement bodies have been put on high alert.
One section of the law-enforcement bodies have been deployed to the mountainous
regions of the republic.

The republic's Interior Ministry spokesman told a Kavkazskiy Uzel correspondent
that after a terrorist act that took place near the Interior Ministry premises
in Groznyy on 15 May, over 1,000 servicemen of the power-wielding bodies were
dispatched to the republic's Vedenskiy District.

"With regard to the recent events in Groznyy, all the units of the republic's
Interior Ministry have been put high alert. Other law-enforcement bodies have
also been brought to a state of increased combat readiness. Large-scale special
operations have been launched in the mountainous forested area in Chechnya's
south, as well as in districts adjacent to Ingushetia (Sunzhenskiy and
Achkhoy-Martanovskiy districts of Chechnya) to find and eliminate gang
formations," a police officer has said.

He noted that apart from the republic's Vedenskiy District where the fighters
have enhanced their activity of late and where about 1,000 servicemen from
various units were dispatched, significant number of troops will be sent to
other "problematic" districts too.

"It is absolutely clear that without taking large-scale measures, delivering
pre-emptive attacks to gang formations and neutralizing the leaders of the gang
formations, it will not be possible to ensure complete stabilization not only in
our republic but in the neighbouring regions too, including Ingushetia and
Dagestan," the source said.

Following the terrorist act near the republic's Interior Ministry premises,
President Ramzan Kadyrov said at a [meeting] with law-enforcement officers that
there would no longer be any amnesty to the militants, that they would be
persuaded to surrender, and that those of them who would offer resistance, would
be killed. "I categorically prohibit everyone to utter the word 'amnesty', the
Chechen president said at the meeting.

At a meeting in Magas on 17 May Ingush President Yunus-Bek Yevkurov and the
Chechen president agreed on joint actions against terrorists. The Chechen
president noted that for complete elimination of the militants and the
resolution of the problem of illegal armed formations, it is necessary that the
law-enforcement bodies of Dagestan, Chechnya and Ingushetia coordinate their
efforts.

Four persons, including two officers of the Chechen Interior Ministry were
killed as a result of the terrorist act near the [Interior Ministry] premises on
16 May. Another five persons received injuries of various degrees. Relatives of
the policemen who were killed or injured were promised monetary aid.

On the evening of the same day, law enforcement officers killed three persons
who had been declared accomplices to a terrorist who blew himself up near the
Interior Ministry building. In the meantime, according to the human rights
centre Memorial, these people did not offer armed resistance to law-enforcement
officers.

The blast near the Interior Ministry premises was the first terrorist act that
was committed by a suicide bomber after the counterterrorist operation was
lifted in Chechnya. Earlier some of the Chechen residents had said that they had
observed no changes in the republic after the counterterrorist operation had
been lifted and that the lifting of the counterterrorist operation itself had a
formal nature which first of all served political ends.

Source: Kavkaz-uzel.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 18 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                              May 18, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1

Britain 'open to terror attacks from the water'

BYLINE: Miles Erwin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 190 words


BRITAIN is vulnerable to a terrorist attack from the water, MPs have warned.

Our coastline is protected by a small Royal Navy contingent, supported by a
'motley collection' of other vessels, said members of the Commons Def­ ence
Committee.

There was neither the resources nor the coordination to cope with an attack.
What forces existed were 'largely re­ active' and a 'deterrent capability' to
ward off an attempt on civilian targets was needed, they added.

'We are concerned at the level of act­ ion being taken to address identified
threats to aspects of critical national infrastructure, such as ports,' the
cross­party MPs said in their report. Britain's coastal waters are patrolled by
six Royal Navy warships - three Type 23 frigates and three mine­sweepers - plus
two offshore patrol vessels and a support tanker.

They are supported by police, MoD, Coastguard and UK Border Agency vessels, with
no organisation in over­ all control.

The MoD was also urged to use the Territorial, rather than regular, Army to help
with civil emergencies such as floods or disease outbreaks.

Using reservists would be 'practical and good for morale', MPs added.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Not enough: A Type 23 frigate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                              May 18, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

PETROL BOMB ATTACK TERROR;
Young boy too scared to live in his own home

BYLINE: ANDY NEWPORT

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 431 words


A TERRIFIED family fear for their safety after sick firebugs petrol-bombed their
home.

Thugs managed to sneak their way into a tenement close in Ferguslie Park Avenue,
Paisley, before starting a blaze.

The flames were put out before anyone was hurt but the extreme heat from the
fire left the tenement walls blackened with smoke damage.

Now Toni-Anne Canning, who lives in a first-floor flat there, can barely sleep
at night as she lies awake worrying that the neds will strike again.

And the 20-year-old single mum has sent her young son Jordan to stay with a
relative elsewhere for his own safety.

Anne-Marie Canning, who is Toni-Anne's mum, is hoping the firebugs are caught
before they put lives at risk again.

"Thankfully, Jordan was staying with his great-gran and Toni-Anne was out at the
time when the tenement close was petrol-bombed," said 42-year-old Anne-Marie.

"Had Toni-Anne and Jordan been at home when these idiots struck, they would have
been trapped inside.

"They would have had to jump out of a window to get away from the flames and the
smoke.

"The fire was severe and there was smoke everywhere.

"Toni-Anne and Jordan just wouldn't have stood a chance."

Anne-Marie said that five-year-old Jordan is now too scared to return to his
Ferguslie Park home.

She added: "Jordan is staying with my mum - his great-gran - because he's too
frightened to go anywhere near his own home.

"He has been traumatised by what has happened.

"He keeps saying that he doesn't want to go back there in case the 'bad men' are
hanging around.

"Toni-Anne works in the construction industry and has to stay in the flat in
Ferguslie Park Avenue because it's handy for her job but she's also been left
terrified by what happened.

"She can't sleep at night because she is scared these neds will come back
again."

To make matters worse, the walls of the tenement close are still covered in
black soot and Toni-Ann's flat stinks of smoke damage three weeks after the
blaze took place.

Anne-Marie has written to Renfrewshire Council to urge them to have the mess
cleaned up but has been left angry by the slow progress.

She said: "It's a disgrace the council is happy to let someone live in those
conditions."

A Renfrewshire Council spokesperson said: "For a fire to be started maliciously
in any property is a serious issue and we are continuing to liaise with the
police about this incident.

"In terms of the property, we have checked to make sure there was no structural
damage and we are arranging for the close to be repainted.

"That should happen in the next few days."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  WORRIED: Anne-Marie Canning with her five-year-old grandson Jordan
PDE110509CANNING-02

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

Maritime defences 'not properly co-ordinated';
Britain's maritime defences are not properly resourced or co-ordinated to deal
with the threat of a terrorist attack, MPs are warning today.

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 560 words


The Commons Defence Committee expressed concern at the level of preparation for
dealing with threats which had been identified to the UK's sea ports and other
critical national infrastructure.

It said there was no single organisation with overall responsibility for the
security of Britain's coastal waters.

The Royal Navy had just six warships - three Type 23 frigates and three
minesweepers - plus two offshore patrol vessels and a support tanker
specifically tasked with the protection of UK waters.

They were supplemented by a "motley collection" of sea-going vessels available
from other organisations, including around 70 from the police, 50 from the
Ministry of Defence Police, five Coastguard inshore patrol boats and five
cutters operated by UK Border Agency.

The committee called for a more pro-active approach to maritime security through
the development of a "deterrent capability" to ward off attacks on civilian
targets.

"We do not question their competence or intention, but the extent to which they
are properly resourced and co-ordinated," it said.

"We are concerned at the level of action being taken to address identified
threats to aspects of critical national infrastructure, such as ports, and that
what assets are available for the purposes of maritime security tend to be
largely reactive forces.

"We feel that there is a strong case for developing a deterrent capability in
relation to threats to civilian maritime targets.

"It need not necessarily be resourced by the military, but we are not satisfied
that an intelligence-led approach is sufficient."

The committee also urged the Ministry of Defence to make greater use of the
Territorial Army in dealing with civil emergencies - like floods or foot and
mouth - rather than always resorting to regular forces.

"We have been informed of the frustration felt by many in the Territorial Army,
and by district commanders, that the Territorials are rarely - if ever - called
upon in civil emergencies, even though it would be practical and good for their
morale to do so," it said.

It expressed concern the help the military was able to provide to the civil
authorities for dealing with emergencies was not properly understood within the
rest of Whitehall.

Committee chairman James Arbuthnot said: "If ever there were an emergency where
a Government department misunderstood what the military could deliver, there
could be serious consequences."

An MoD spokesman said: "We do not believe that there is likely to be an
emergency situation where a Government department misunderstands what the
military could deliver.

"There are clear procedures in place for the armed forces to provide military
assistance to other Government departments both in times of national crises, or
as part of routine business.

"At a local level, we work with those who will provide front line emergency
responses to the regions and educate them about the type of military help they
will receive and how to request it.

"Nationally, work is under way to provide other Government departments with
formal guidelines on how to request military assistance in areas such as counter
terrorism and explosive ordnance disposal.

"We also regularly take part in regional and national exercises to practice and
refine procedures for dealing with all kinds of incidents from flood recovery
and logistics planning to counter terrorism exercises."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

Maritime defences 'not properly co-ordinated';
Britain's maritime defences are not properly resourced or co-ordinated to deal
with the threat of a terrorist attack, MPs are warning today.

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 560 words


The Commons Defence Committee expressed concern at the level of preparation for
dealing with threats which had been identified to the UK's sea ports and other
critical national infrastructure.

It said there was no single organisation with overall responsibility for the
security of Britain's coastal waters.

The Royal Navy had just six warships - three Type 23 frigates and three
minesweepers - plus two offshore patrol vessels and a support tanker
specifically tasked with the protection of UK waters.

They were supplemented by a "motley collection" of sea-going vessels available
from other organisations, including around 70 from the police, 50 from the
Ministry of Defence Police, five Coastguard inshore patrol boats and five
cutters operated by UK Border Agency.

The committee called for a more pro-active approach to maritime security through
the development of a "deterrent capability" to ward off attacks on civilian
targets.

"We do not question their competence or intention, but the extent to which they
are properly resourced and co-ordinated," it said.

"We are concerned at the level of action being taken to address identified
threats to aspects of critical national infrastructure, such as ports, and that
what assets are available for the purposes of maritime security tend to be
largely reactive forces.

"We feel that there is a strong case for developing a deterrent capability in
relation to threats to civilian maritime targets.

"It need not necessarily be resourced by the military, but we are not satisfied
that an intelligence-led approach is sufficient."

The committee also urged the Ministry of Defence to make greater use of the
Territorial Army in dealing with civil emergencies - like floods or foot and
mouth - rather than always resorting to regular forces.

"We have been informed of the frustration felt by many in the Territorial Army,
and by district commanders, that the Territorials are rarely - if ever - called
upon in civil emergencies, even though it would be practical and good for their
morale to do so," it said.

It expressed concern the help the military was able to provide to the civil
authorities for dealing with emergencies was not properly understood within the
rest of Whitehall.

Committee chairman James Arbuthnot said: "If ever there were an emergency where
a Government department misunderstood what the military could deliver, there
could be serious consequences."

An MoD spokesman said: "We do not believe that there is likely to be an
emergency situation where a Government department misunderstands what the
military could deliver.

"There are clear procedures in place for the armed forces to provide military
assistance to other Government departments both in times of national crises, or
as part of routine business.

"At a local level, we work with those who will provide front line emergency
responses to the regions and educate them about the type of military help they
will receive and how to request it.

"Nationally, work is under way to provide other Government departments with
formal guidelines on how to request military assistance in areas such as counter
terrorism and explosive ordnance disposal.

"We also regularly take part in regional and national exercises to practice and
refine procedures for dealing with all kinds of incidents from flood recovery
and logistics planning to counter terrorism exercises."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

Maritime defences 'not properly co-ordinated';
Britain's maritime defences are not properly resourced or co-ordinated to deal
with the threat of a terrorist attack, MPs are warning today.

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 560 words


The Commons Defence Committee expressed concern at the level of preparation for
dealing with threats which had been identified to the UK's sea ports and other
critical national infrastructure.

It said there was no single organisation with overall responsibility for the
security of Britain's coastal waters.

The Royal Navy had just six warships - three Type 23 frigates and three
minesweepers - plus two offshore patrol vessels and a support tanker
specifically tasked with the protection of UK waters.

They were supplemented by a "motley collection" of sea-going vessels available
from other organisations, including around 70 from the police, 50 from the
Ministry of Defence Police, five Coastguard inshore patrol boats and five
cutters operated by UK Border Agency.

The committee called for a more pro-active approach to maritime security through
the development of a "deterrent capability" to ward off attacks on civilian
targets.

"We do not question their competence or intention, but the extent to which they
are properly resourced and co-ordinated," it said.

"We are concerned at the level of action being taken to address identified
threats to aspects of critical national infrastructure, such as ports, and that
what assets are available for the purposes of maritime security tend to be
largely reactive forces.

"We feel that there is a strong case for developing a deterrent capability in
relation to threats to civilian maritime targets.

"It need not necessarily be resourced by the military, but we are not satisfied
that an intelligence-led approach is sufficient."

The committee also urged the Ministry of Defence to make greater use of the
Territorial Army in dealing with civil emergencies - like floods or foot and
mouth - rather than always resorting to regular forces.

"We have been informed of the frustration felt by many in the Territorial Army,
and by district commanders, that the Territorials are rarely - if ever - called
upon in civil emergencies, even though it would be practical and good for their
morale to do so," it said.

It expressed concern the help the military was able to provide to the civil
authorities for dealing with emergencies was not properly understood within the
rest of Whitehall.

Committee chairman James Arbuthnot said: "If ever there were an emergency where
a Government department misunderstood what the military could deliver, there
could be serious consequences."

An MoD spokesman said: "We do not believe that there is likely to be an
emergency situation where a Government department misunderstands what the
military could deliver.

"There are clear procedures in place for the armed forces to provide military
assistance to other Government departments both in times of national crises, or
as part of routine business.

"At a local level, we work with those who will provide front line emergency
responses to the regions and educate them about the type of military help they
will receive and how to request it.

"Nationally, work is under way to provide other Government departments with
formal guidelines on how to request military assistance in areas such as counter
terrorism and explosive ordnance disposal.

"We also regularly take part in regional and national exercises to practice and
refine procedures for dealing with all kinds of incidents from flood recovery
and logistics planning to counter terrorism exercises."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                              May 18, 2009 Monday

'Motley maritime defences' leave UK at risk of terror attack, say MPs

LENGTH: 566 words



HIGHLIGHT: Britain's maritime defences are not properly resourced or
co-ordinated to deal with the threat of terrorist attack, MPs warned today.


The Commons Defence Committee expressed concern at the level of preparation for
dealing with threats which had been identified to Britain's sea ports and other
critical national infrastructure. It said that there was no single organisation
with overall responsibility for the security of Britain's coastal waters.

The Royal Navy had just six warships - three Type 23 frigates and three
minesweepers - plus two offshore patrol vessels and a support tanker
specifically tasked with the protection of UK waters.

They were supplemented by a "motley collection" of sea-going vessels available
from other organisations, including about 70 from the police, 50 from the
Ministry of Defence Police, five Coastguard inshore patrol boats, and five
cutters operated by UK Border Agency.

The committee called for a more pro-active approach to maritime security through
the development of a "deterrent capability" to ward off attacks on civilian
targets. We do not question their competence or intention, but the extent to
which they are properly resourced and co-ordinated," it said.

"We are concerned at the level of action being taken to address identified
threats to aspects of critical national infrastructure, such as ports, and that
what assets are available for the purposes of maritime security tend to be
largely reactive forces.

"We feel that there is a strong case for developing a deterrent capability in
relation to threats to civilian maritime targets. It need not necessarily be
resourced by the military, but we are not satisfied that an intelligence-led
approach is sufficient."

The committee also urged the Ministry of Defence to make greater use of the
Territorial Army in dealing with civil emergencies - like floods or foot and
mouth - rather than always resorting to regular forces.

"We have been informed of the frustration felt by many in the Territorial Army,
and by district commanders, that the Territorials are rarely - if ever - called
upon in civil emergencies, even though it would be practical and good for their
morale to do so," it said.

It expressed concern that the help that the military was able to provide to the
civil authorities for dealing with emergencies was not properly understood
within the rest of Whitehall.

An MoD spokesman said: "We do not believe that there is likely to be an
emergency situation where a Government department misunderstands what the
military could deliver. There are clear procedures in place for the Armed Forces
to provide military assistance to other Government departments both in times of
national crises, or as part of routine business.

"Nationally, work is under way to provide other Government departments with
formal guidelines on how to request military assistance in areas such as counter
terrorism and explosive ordnance disposal."

Shadow defence secretary Liam Fox said: "It is clear from this report that the
Government has not given sufficient attention to the role of the Armed Forces in
its domestic security policy."

Shadow security minister, Baroness Neville-Jones said: "We cannot discount the
possibility that the commando-style terrorist attacks in Mumbai and Lahore will
become models for attacks here in the UK.

"At the same time the scale and frequency of natural hazards is increasing.
There could be many occasions when the emergency services might be overwhelmed,
which is why we need clarity about the military contribution."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YPOS


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                       May 19, 2009 Tuesday 01:52 PM GMT

Lack of surveillance before London terrorist attacks 'astounding'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 1369 words


Extra checks to link the ringleader of the July 7 London bombing, Mohammed
Sidique Khan, to terrorism did not take place because of limited resources, a
report said today.

Investigators did not dig further into his background despite watching him meet
extremist plotters because they believed he did not pose a direct threat, the
Intelligence and Security Committee (ISC) said.

In a long-awaited second report into the July 7 2005 attacks in London, MPs said
they "cannot criticise" decisions made by MI5 and police in the months before
the atrocities.

However, they branded the fact that MI5 could only provide "reasonable"
surveillance coverage of about one in 20 terror suspects in 2004 as
"astounding".

They also revealed that MI5 chiefs admitted they can do more to improve how
potentially vital information on suspects is stored so it can be retrieved more
easily.

The committee concluded: "Having taken everything into account and having looked
at all the evidence in considerable detail, we cannot criticise the judgments
made by MI5 and the police based on the information that they had and their
priorities at the time.

"Even considering material that was discovered after 7/7, and that which arose
from the Crevice trial, we believe that the decisions made in 2004 and 2005 were
understandable and reasonable."

The heavily-censored 100-page report will leave the British government open to
claims of a whitewash by campaigners calling for a full public inquiry.

They want an independent investigation into what the Security Service and police
did and did not know in the run-up to the 2005 London attacks that left 52
innocent people dead.

The report was finally published today after three men were acquitted of helping
the four bombers prepare for their attacks on three Tube trains and a bus.

In a previous report published in 2006, the ISC revealed that bombers Shehzad
Tanweer and Khan were known to MI5 but were not investigated.

The report said that, given the amount of information held on Khan, it was
"nevertheless surprising" that they did not identify him prior to July 7.

MPs added however that they were satisfied about the reasons why MI5 did not
divert resources from other alleged terror plots to the suspected "small-time
fraudster".

The report detailed six contacts recorded by MI5 and police with Khan between
1993, when he was arrested for assault, and January 2005, when police linked a
hire car to a terror investigation.

It added that there were 10 clusters of secure emails exchanged between MI5 and
West Yorkshire Police referring to an individual now believed to be Khan.

MPs said Khan was one of 40 men photographed by West Yorkshire Police in 2001
during a training camp, but he was not identified until several years later.

The report also outlined several contacts observed by surveillance teams between
Khan and Tanweer with Omar Khyam, the leader of the fertiliser bomb plot.

The two July 7 bombers were watched as they met Khyam in February and March
2004, but analysts decided they were not planning an attack and were involved in
financial fraud.

They were also followed home, but the report said this was simply "housing" the
men - identifying an address for them - so they could be traced if further
inquiries were necessary.

The committee said there was nothing to single out these meetings and phone
calls as particularly significant at the time and no mistakes were made.

The report highlighted how MI5 was swamped with leads relating to Khyam,
including more than 4,000 telephone contacts and 1,154 links to vehicles.

The report found the various spellings of Khan's name may have hindered the
police and MI5 as they tried to join up all the different fragments of
information they had.

But it added: "MI5 have said that even if 'S. Khan' had been discovered to be
the same individual appearing on each occasion, there was still nothing to
indicate that he was involved in a plot to carry out terrorist attacks and
therefore they would not have done any more to investigate him, given what else
was going on at the time."

The committee said Khan and Tanweer were categorised as "desirable" targets by
MI5 after they were overheard discussing fraud and travel to Pakistan.

Their report highlighted how in 2004, MI5's coverage of more than 60% of targets
was described as "inadequate" or "none" and that 54 "essential" targets had no
coverage at all.

The committee said the "astounding figures" make it "possible to understand the
difficulty if the decisions that MI5 had to make at the time".

Members said resources were so stretched agents could not even assess whether
"desirable" targets should be examined in more detail unless they were known to
be plotting an attack.

They said: "They had to prioritise even within this essential group. Therefore a
'desirable' target did not even get close to attracting a share of the limited
resources available."

The committee said MI5 would need an unachievable "several hundred thousand
officers" to provide comprehensive intelligence coverage. It currently employs
3,500.

The report said MI5 bosses have reviewed the way they operate in the wake of the
July 7 attacks and improved tactics to deploy resources during operations.

MPs concluded that a review of information collected during the fertiliser plot
inquiry would not have prevented the July 2005 atrocities.

They added: "It could be argued that fresh checks could have been carried out
during this time, and that this might have made a difference.

"But, as we have described earlier, these would not have been possible in law or
justified in terms of resources, based on how much of a threat Khan and Tanweer
appeared to present."

An annex to the report added in recent months revealed that MI5 and MI6
contacted the committee at the end of last year to reveal that another man may
have been involved in the July 7 attacks.

MPs said the suspect was linked to another terror suspect and several extremist
groups and may have worked as a "facilitator" for Khan and Tanweer.

The censored report revealed that the individual had personal links to the two
bombers and was not another man previously accused of links and named in the
media as Haroon Rashid.

It stated: "We have previously explained in the review that such fragmentary
intelligence cannot provide the complete picture and cannot be completely
verified.

"There is (at this stage at least) no evidential link."

The report added: "Despite this development, which we have included here for
completeness, there remains no specific confirmed intelligence that there was a
fifth bomber or a 'mastermind' involved in the attacks of July 7, 2005.

"The agencies do, however, assess (i.e. they do not know for certain, but judge
it likely) that the bombers were directed in some way by elements of al Qaida
based overseas."

The report highlighted several surveillance photographs, some released for the
first time, which were taken of groups of men including Khan on a training camp
in 2001 and at a service station in 2004.

The committee said the failure to show one of the photographs to a terrorist
informant in prison was not a "missed opportunity" because it was of such poor
quality.

The report found that, although the police have stopped 12 terror plots since
2000, there can be no guarantee that the events of July 2005 will never be
repeated.

MPs said a figure of 2,000 terrorist targets recently given by the head of MI5
is "not scaremongering" and that "a great deal more people" pose a threat to
Britain.

They said: "What our agencies can do is to build an intelligence network that
gives them as much information as possible and then try and stop those that it
comes across, which is what they have been doing.

"But we must be realistic. Despite the increased efforts of the agencies, and
the increased resources at their disposal, the odds are stacked against them.

"The attacks of July 7, 2005, together with the attacks of July 21, 2005, and
the attempted attack on London and Glasgow Airport in summer 2007 demonstrate
there will always be gaps in intelligence coverage.

"It is an uncomfortable truth that, at some time in the future, and without any
prior warning, it is very possible the UK will be the subject of another
terrorist attack."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         Peterborough Evening Telegraph

                              May 19, 2009 Tuesday

Terror of father of six attacked in gun raid

LENGTH: 351 words



HIGHLIGHT:
A FATHER of six has spoken of his terror after being forced to stare down the
barrel of a gun during a terrifying armed robbery in Woodston on Saturday (16
May).


Salesman Glenn Johnson was working at glazing firm Safestyle UK's branch in
Coltsfoot Drive, Woodston, Peterborough, on Saturday afternoon, when two men,
armed with a knife and a gun charged in at 4.30pm.

Mr Johnson (35), from Welland, Peterborough, was the only person in the office
at the time, and today he spoke of his terrifying 15-minute ordeal.

He said: "I was alone at work, when two guys just walked in, armed with a gun
and a knife.

"They were shouting 'get down, get down' so I just did what they said. I wanted
them out as quickly as possible.

"One of them kicked a chair at my knee. There was a gun pointing at my head the
entire time.

"I was just in shock. I was absolutely terrified. I never want to go through
that again."

The two robbers got away with all the money in the safe, estimated to be between
£2,000 and £4,000 in cash.

Since the raid, Mr Johnson said he had been too terrified to go to work, but
paid tribute to his family, who he said had helped him to recover after the
incident.

He said: "I have popped in the office, but I don't want to go back  in.

"My family have been really helpful, looking after me and making sure I am all
right. They have been incredible."

The first man is described as white, about 21 years old, 5ft 10ins tall, and of
a medium to stocky build. He was wearing a grey hooded top, grey tracksuit
bottoms and wore a red scarf over his face.

The second man is described as black, about 21 years old, 5ft 10ins, and of a
medium to stocky build.

He was dressed in black and was wearing gloves with the right index finger
missing.

One was carrying a 7ins kitchen knife, and the other a hand gun.

Detective sergeant Paul Shersby, investigating, said: "We would like to hear
from anyone who saw anyone acting suspiciously in the area before the time of
the robbery or who saw these men leaving the building.

"This was a frightening incident for the member of staff, and any information
could prove useful in finding those responsible."

Anyone with information should call DS Shersby, at Thorpe Wood police station,
on 0845 456 4564 or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555111.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PET


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        May 19, 2009 Tuesday 2:47 AM BST

EVENTS SPARKED BY LONDON TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Press Association Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 495 words


As a Government committee publishes its review of intelligence on the July 7
London bombings, here is a timeline of events which started with the attacks.

8.50am July 7, 2005: Bombs explode on three Tube trains in central London - at
Russell Square, Aldgate and Edgware Road - within 50 seconds of each other.

9.47am, July 7, 2005: A bomb explodes on a bus at Tavistock Square, Bloomsbury.
A total of 52 innocent people are killed in the four blasts and up to 1,000 more
are injured.

July 8, 2005: One of the suicide bombers, Mohammed Sidique Khan, is identified
as the account holder for a credit card found at the site of the Edgware Road
explosion. Other similar links follow.

July 12, 2005: Police raid the homes of Khan and fellow bombers Shehzad Tanweer
and Hasib Mir Hussain in West Yorkshire, as well as an apparent bomb factory in
Alexandra Grove, Leeds. Police identify CCTV images of the four bombers at Luton
and King's Cross stations.

July 13, 2005: The wife of the fourth bomber, Jermaine Lindsay, reports him
missing. Police search their home in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire.

July 14, 2005: Police find property of Khan's at a third scene, Tavistock
Square, and publicly name Tanweer and Hussain.

July 16, 2005: Khan and Lindsay are officially named.

July 21, 2005: London's transport network is again plunged into chaos after
attempted bombings on Tube trains at Oval, Warren Street and Shepherd's Bush and
on a number 26 bus at Bethnal Green. Four men are later charged.

December 12, 2005: John Taylor, whose daughter Carrie, 24, died at Aldgate,
tells then Met police commissioner Sir Ian Blair that the Government was
``blase'' about security in the run up to the attacks.

May 11, 2006 - an intelligence and security committee report reveals that Khan
was known to MI5 officers but they were reportedly diverted to another
anti-terror probe so he was not fully investigated.

April 20, 2007: Mohammed Shakil and Sadeer Saleem, from Beeston, Leeds, and
Waheed Ali, from Tower Hamlets, east London, appear at the Old Bailey via
videolink charged with conspiring with the four July 7 bombers.

April 10, 2008: The trial of the three men starts at Kingston Crown Court,
Surrey.

August 1, 2008: The jury is dismissed after failing to reach a verdict,
following a three-month trial and 15 days of deliberations.

October 8, 2008: Police raid a flat in Harehills, Leeds. Forensic experts scour
the property for any evidence that links it to the suicide bombers.

January 21, 2009: British security officials investigate reports that an al
Qaida leader wanted over the attacks has been arrested in Pakistan.

April 28, 2009: Shakil, Saleem and Ali are all acquitted at Kingston Crown
Court. However, Ali and Shakil are convicted of a second charge of conspiracy to
attend a place used for terrorist training, and jailed for seven years.

May 19, 2009: The cross-party intelligence and security committee's review of
intelligence on the July 7 attacks is published by the Prime Minister.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday

South Ossetia says arms cache evidence of planned Georgian "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 230 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Tskhinvali, 20 May: A weapons cache discovered in the [formerly
Georgian-controlled] South Ossetian village of Eredvi is evidence of the
preparation of terrorist attacks in the territory of the republic, South
Ossetian interior minister Valeriy Valiyev told journalists on Wednesday [20
May].

"According to operational information we have received, what was discovered in
the village of Eredvi is directly linked to people who, despite the fact that
they are natives of South Ossetia, are engaged in subversive actions proceeding
from the interests of Tbilisi and are fulfilling tasks of the Georgian special
services," the South Ossetian interior minister said.

He added that "certain forces take every effort to destabilize the situation in
South Ossetia, including through the perpetration of terrorist attacks".

Valiyev said that South Ossetian law-enforcement agencies were currently
undertaking investigative measures.

According to the South Ossetian interior ministry, the weapons cache discovered
in the village of Eredvi was intended for the commission of a terrorist attack.
One of the members of the investigative group said mines, detonators and other
accessories that can be used to assemble improvised explosive devices were found
in the cache.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1341 gmt 20 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                             May 20, 2009 Wednesday

New demand for terror attack public inquiry

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 266 words


Calls for a public inquiry into the July 7 terror attacks in London which killed
52 people have intensified - following a second report into the atrocities.

According to the Intelligence and Security Committee report published yesterday,
the security service and counter terrorist police did not have the resources to
identify Mohammed Sidique Khan as the ringleader before the outrages took place.

Khan lived in Dewsbury but his parents and sister had moved to Beeston.

He blew up Edgware Road Station, London, killing six people.

According to the committee, investigators did not dig further into his
background despite watching him meet extremist plotters because they believed he
did not pose a direct threat.

In a long-awaited second report into the July 7, 2005 attacks in London, MPs
said they could not criticise decisions made by MI5 and police in the months
before the atrocities.

But they branded the fact that MI5 could only provide "reasonable" surveillance
coverage of about one in 20 terror suspects in 2004 as "astounding".

They revealed that MI5 chiefs admitted they can do more to improve how
potentially vital information on suspects is stored so it can be retrieved more
easily.

Tory David Davis said there was a clear need for a senior judge to lead an
investigation.

He said: "We are not setting out to scapegoat or indeed attack members of the
police or security agencies involved.

"But that's not the same as recognising that there were errors."

The heavily-censored 100-page report will leave the Government open to claims of
a whitewash by campaigners calling for a full public inquiry.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2009 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday

Police: Men planned terror attack in New York to avenge deaths of Muslims

LENGTH: 574 words

ABSTRACT

Four self-styled jihadists arrested for planning to bomb two synagogues and
shoot down a military plane in New York

FULL TEXT

Four self-styled jihadists from New York planned to shock America by bombing two
synagogues and bringing down a military plane in a coordinated attack conceived
as revenge for the deaths of Muslims in Afghanistan and Pakistan, police said
today.

The four men intended to carry out the attacks yesterday evening, planting what
they thought were car bombs outside two Bronx synagogues and planning to
detonate them at the same time as they shot down a plane with an anti-aircraft
missile. But they were arrested amid an extraordinary display of police
fire-power including an 18-wheel armoured truck used to block the suspects'
vehicle.

New York's police chief and mayor warned today that the arrests underlined the
ongoing danger of security threats against the city since 9/11. But the emerging
details of the plot also illuminated the ability of federal authorities to
infiltrate and track nascent terrorist activities.

According to the federal case against the men, the plot began to take shape as
early as June last year. James Cromitie, a petty criminal with numerous
convictions who is identified as the ringleader, is alleged to have begun making
inquiries about buying explosives through a mosque in Newburgh, a town about 60
miles north of New York City where he lived. He said he was upset about the war
in Afghanistan, as his father was an Afghan immigrant to the US.

Cromitie said he wanted to do "something to America", lamenting that "the best
target was already hit" in an apparent reference to the World Trade Centre.

Even at that early stage the police was aware of his intentions. An informant
posing as a member of an extreme Pakistani group was in contact with Cromitie at
the mosque and remained closely associated with him, using hidden audio and
video equipment to record conversations over the next 11 months.

In October, according to the charges, Cromitie began discussions with his three
fellow conspirators whom he had met in prison. Two of the three are US citizens
and the third Haitian; they are all converts to Islam.

The informant tracked the meetings of the four men, and arranged with FBI help
to supply them with C-4 plastic explosives and a Stinger anti-aircraft missile.
The men were unaware that all the weaponry, including the explosives which had
been made up into a bomb-like object by FBI agents, was dud and utterly
harmless.

Last month, the charges allege, the men began actively staking out Riverdale
Temple and the nearby Riverdale Jewish Centre. They also surveyed the movement
of military aircraft at Stewart air national guard base in Newburgh.

The plotters allegedly intended to create a "fireball that would make the
country gasp". But there was no evidence that they were linked to a wider
network of jihadists.

"The group was relatively unsophisticated, penetrated early and not connected to
any outside group," said Charles Schumer, one of New York state's two US
senators.

Despite the apparently naive nature of the conspiracy, Michael Bloomberg, mayor
of New York, said it showed that threats against the city were "sadly all too
real".

Raymond Kelly, the city's police commissioner, told a press conference outside
the Riverdale Temple that the men had wanted to commit jihad. He quoted one of
the four as saying "If Jews were killed in this attack, that would be alright."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday

International: You can look now: Liberty opens her eyes again: Crown to reopen
for first time since September 11 terrorist attacks on US

BYLINE: Ed Pilkington, New York

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 434 words


The view was all but identical to the one Lady Liberty must have admired minutes
before the first plane crashed into the twin towers in New York on September 11
2001. She gazed out over the same clear metallic blue sky, the same Brooklyn
shoreline glistening under an early morning sun while the Staten island ferry
passed by.

Yesterday the public was given its first taste of that view since the tragedy of
9/11. A group of reporters and photographers were allowed up to the crown of the
Statue of Liberty for the first time since it was closed for security reasons
almost eight years ago, on the day of the attacks on the US.

The press tour was the preview to a symbolic reopening of the crown on 4 July,
US independence day. From then, and for the next two years, anyone lucky enough
to win a lottery ticket will be allowed up the spiral staircase which rises
inside the statue like a spine.

They can look forward to a strenuous vertical walk up 168 tiny and progressively
narrowing steps that had several of the media party sweating and

gasping by the time they reached the top. The ascent affords an extraordinary
view of the statue from inside, with her beaten copper panels the colour of dark
chocolate, rather than the green they have weathered to on the outside.

Just before the crown, you pass within inches of the face, again from the
inside. There is the ledge of the chin, the nostrils and the clear outlines of
the eyes, all indented like a jelly mould.

The metal of the face is already hot to the touch from the beating sun. In July
it will be like an oven, and visitors will bake accordingly.

Finally, there is the crown itself. It is surprisingly small and cramped, with
25 panes of glass, each no bigger than a hand, swooping across it in an arch.
Through the windows you see the world just as Lady Liberty does through her eyes
a few feet below.

Look to the right and you see her arm rising up to the famous torch. Look to the
left and down and you can see her clutching the tablet bearing the date 4 July
1776 in Latin.

Through one of the panes looking to the left, straining a little, you can just
see downtown Manhattan. By now it is 8.45am - the time the first plane crashed
into the north tower of the World Trade Centre. The famous skyline of the city
is a misty silhouette, and from this elevation, at 265ft, looks surprisingly
low-rise in the absence of the Twin Towers.

From July about 30 visitors an hour will be allowed up to the crown, where they
will have five minutes at most to admire the view that Lady Liberty enjoyed
before it went up in smoke that fateful morning in September.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 22, 2009 Friday

Bosnian officials discuss Iranian diplomats' fear of terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 707 words


Text of report by Bosnian privately-owned independent daily Oslobodjenje, on 20
May

[Report by A. Terzic: "Urgent Talks With Iranian Ambassador"]

The B-H Ministry of Foreign Affairs will invite the Iranian ambassador for
urgent consultations, so as to discuss the warning, which this diplomatic and
consular office sent in connection with the decision by the EU Council of
Ministers on removing the Mujahedin-e-Khalq Organization [MKO] from the black
list of the terrorist organizations.

Provide Security

Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj told Oslobodjenje yesterday that a meeting would
be held with the Iranian ambassador, so as to discuss eliminating the possible
threat for the security of this embassy and its diplomats in our country.

"We received the letter from the Iranian Embassy, which expressed concern about
the EU decision on removing the MKO from the black list. The B-H Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, in coordination with the B-H Security Ministry and as part of
its responsibilities, will undertake all the required steps, so as to provide
security for the Iranian Embassy in our country and for their diplomats,"
Alkalaj said.

He noted that the security agencies, the Intelligence and Security Agency and
the State Investigation and Protection Agency, needed to determine whether there
was any threat of possible activities by the MKO in our country.

Around 10 days ago, Branko Zrno, the chairman of the B-H Parliament's joint
committee for defence and security, had a meeting with Iranian Deputy Ambassador
Nasser Sobhanipour, who conveyed the concerns of the Iranian side.

Reaction of Relevant Bodies

"The deputy Iranian ambassador reiterated what they had expressed in their
letter, sent earlier to the relevant parliamentary committee. He pointed to a
realistic danger that, after the EU decision, which removed the MKO from the
black list of the terrorist organizations, its cells might start operating in
Europe. In this context, it is clear that all the Iranian diplomats are
expressing concern for their own safety, considering that the MKO's activities
are directed against Iran," Zrno said.

Zrno expressed his view that the national security of our country was not
directly threatened in the context of the MKO operations. Nevertheless, Zrno
said that the relevant committee had taken seriously the letter and the talk
with the Iranian Embassy representatives. He also said that, in this context,
the committee tasked the Ministry of Security and the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs to undertake concrete activities under their jurisdiction. The same was
requested from the B-H Presidency, which has the constitutional jurisdiction
over the foreign policy, and its responsibilities include making sure that the
foreign embassies in our country are safe and can operate without any hindrance.

Although the EU removed the MKO from the black list of the terrorist
organizations, the United States has not done the same; it still regards this
organization as very dangerous. The MKO is also on the black list in Canada, as
well as in Iraq.

[Box] Written Warning

The Iranian Embassy said in the letter to the B-H institutions that the violent
and terrorist activities of the MKO against the civilians in Iran and Iraq
generated deep hatred in the public opinion in those countries against this
organization; the hatred is particularly strong in the families of those who
were the victims of their terrorist attacks.

"This organization is loathed not only by the people of Iraq and Iran, but also
by all the opposition groups outside Iran. The EU Council of Ministers passed a
decision on removing the MKO from the black list at the time when this outlaw
group continues to defend its shameful terrorist precepts. There is no single
proof that this group repented or resigned from the terrorist policy.
Furthermore, this organization has not given any guarantees that it will stop
using terrorism as means for achieving their goals. The decision by the EU is in
opposition to all the evidence that exists in Iran, the United States, and
Europe; this evidence confirms the terrorist nature of the MKO;" this is part of
the statement by the Iranian Embassy in Bosnia-Hercegovina.

Source: Oslobodjenje, Sarajevo, in Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian 20 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Latin America - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 22, 2009 Friday

Terror attacks in Colombia rose by nearly 10 per cent in 2008 - report

LENGTH: 326 words


Text of report by privately-owned, right-of-centre, Colombian newspaper El
Espectador website on 21 May

[Report on 21 May; place not specified: "Government Admits Terrorist Attacks
Rose by 9.8 per cent in 2008"]

Between 2006 and 2008, the number of demobilized combatants increased 40.7 per
cent in Colombia. A report presented by the Department of National Planning
[DPN] shows an increase of 9.8 per cent in the number of terrorist attacks,
comparing figures for 2007 and 2008.

The government report indicates that the increase is due mainly to a significant
increase in the number of incidents in the departments of Cundinamarca, Arauca,
Guaviare, Meta, Antioquia, and in Bogota.

The report clarifies, however, that 10 of the 32 departments evince a reduction
in this crime. At least seven departments were incident-free, and in three
departments, the numbers remained stable.

Comparing the years 2006 and 2008, terrorist attacks dropped by 46.3 per cent in
Colombia, principally in Cordoba, Cesar, Sucre, Vichada, Norte de Santander, and
Putumayo Departments. Analysts consider that these regions were in the grip of
armed criminals.

The increased terrorism in some regions of the country does not detract from the
importance of the democratic security policy implemented by the government of
President Alvaro Uribe, which has been financed through a tax on wealth.

Growth in Demobilized Combatants

last year, a total of 3,461 members of illegal armed groups demobilized, 8 per
cent more than the numbers from the prior year, according to the report. This
number surpassed the target set for the year.

The government report says that the departments recording the largest numbers of
demobilizations included Vichada, Guainia, Quindio, Huila, Magdalena, Meta,
Boyaca, Amazonas, Guaviare, and Choco. The number of demobilized individuals in
the national territory grew by 40.7 per cent between 2006 and 2008.

Source: El Espectador website, Bogota, in Spanish 21 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                           Medway Messenger (Friday)

                                  May 22, 2009

Terrorist attack survivors' meeting

LENGTH: 65 words


BEVERLI Rhodes, of Nettlefield, Kennington, near Ashford joined survivors and
bereaved relatives in Westminster this week as the Intelligence and Security
Committee published its report into the security failings in the  lead-up to the
July 7 terror attacks.

Ms Rhodes, who was living in north London at the time, was in a tube under
Russell Square when suicide bombers attacked the underground.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 25, 2009 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

Terror attack on temple

SECTION: NEWS; 23

LENGTH: 137  words


UP TO 30 people were injured, nine severely, after six gunmen forced their way
into a Sikh temple in Vienna y esterday.

They attacked the preacher and other worshippers, said Austrian police.

One suspect had reportedly been firing a gun while the others wielded knives. At
least nine people, thought to be aged between 30 and 50, suffered gunshot and
stab wounds.

The attackers were said to be among the critically injured.

Worshipper Mohnder Ram, 72, said: "I heard four to five shots.

People started screaming, children were crying as they ran out. There was lots
of blood everywhere."

Local reports said the incident was sparked by a feud between several rival Sikh
temples in Vienna.

A spokeswoman for the police said: "There were six fundamentalists who entered
the congregation who had apparently fallen out with the preacher."

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday

Top honour for Cornish hero of 9/11 attack;
A cornish hero killed in the September 11 terrorist attacks in 2001 has been
honoured with the most prestigious civilian award in the United States.

BYLINE: Andy Greenwood Chief Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 502 words


Rick Rescorla, who was born and raised in Hayle, West Cornwall, helped save the
lives of 2,700 people by ensuring they evacuated the World Trade Center  south
tower before it collapsed after being hit by one of two hijacked airliners.

The 62-year-old former US Vietnam War veteran, who was head of security for
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, was killed when the tower collapsed. He has already
received several posthumous honours. A memorial stone was unveiled in his home
town in Cornwall while a statue of him stands at Fort Benning, Georgia, where he
had trained to be a US army officer. US soldiers also named a forward operating
base in Farah  Province, Afghanistan, after him.

Now he has been recognised by the Congressional Medal of Honour Society - a
group of fewer than 100 surviving servicemen who have earned America's highest
bravery medal.

At a ceremony held in the shadow of the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington
Cemetery, Virginia, he was honoured with the society's Above and Beyond Citizen
Medal.

The award was accepted by his children, Kim and Trevor.

The citation read: "Rick Rescorla, of New Jersey, has been recognised for his
heroic actions for the courageous rescue of his fellow citizens.

"On September 11, 2001, Rick was working as vice-president of security at Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter in the south tower of the World Trade Center.

"When American Airlines flight 11 struck the north tower, Rick reacted according
to the training he had and the plans he developed following the 1993 terrorist
attack on the World Trade Center.  Against the advice of officials, he ordered
an immediate evacuation of all 2,700 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter employees from
the building and led them to safety.

"After the evacuation, United Flight 175 hit the south tower. He then re-entered
the building to search for survivors. He was never seen again.

"Due to Rick's heroic actions, more than 2,700 lives were saved that day.  The
extraordinary courage and selflessness displayed by Rick Rescorla is an
inspiration and credit to the state of New Jersey and to his fellow Americans."

Born on the eve of the Second World War, Mr Rescorla grew up in Hayle, West
Cornwall, before moving to London and joining the Metropolitan Police and later
the British Army, serving in Rhodesia and Cyprus.

He moved to America at the age of 23, becoming a citizen and joining the US army
to serve as a lieutenant and platoon leader in the Vietnam War.

A total of 2,973 people were killed in 2001 when terrorists hijacked aircraft
and flew them into New York's World Trade Center  and the Pentagon in Virginia.

Witnesses recalled Mr Rescorla singing Cornish songs through his megaphone to
keep their spirits up during the evacuation.

A now-famous photograph emerged showing him on the 42nd floor holding the
loudhailer as he ushered people to safety. His body was never recovered.

His widow Susan has made numerous visits to Cornwall since his death, including
opening a nature garden at Penpol Primary School, where her husband had been a
pupil.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday

Top honour for Cornish hero of 9/11 attack;
A cornish hero killed in the September 11 terrorist attacks in 2001 has been
honoured with the most prestigious civilian award in the United States.

BYLINE: Andy Greenwood Chief Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 502 words


Rick Rescorla, who was born and raised in Hayle, West Cornwall, helped save the
lives of 2,700 people by ensuring they evacuated the World Trade Center  south
tower before it collapsed after being hit by one of two hijacked airliners.

The 62-year-old former US Vietnam War veteran, who was head of security for
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, was killed when the tower collapsed. He has already
received several posthumous honours. A memorial stone was unveiled in his home
town in Cornwall while a statue of him stands at Fort Benning, Georgia, where he
had trained to be a US army officer. US soldiers also named a forward operating
base in Farah  Province, Afghanistan, after him.

Now he has been recognised by the Congressional Medal of Honour Society - a
group of fewer than 100 surviving servicemen who have earned America's highest
bravery medal.

At a ceremony held in the shadow of the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington
Cemetery, Virginia, he was honoured with the society's Above and Beyond Citizen
Medal.

The award was accepted by his children, Kim and Trevor.

The citation read: "Rick Rescorla, of New Jersey, has been recognised for his
heroic actions for the courageous rescue of his fellow citizens.

"On September 11, 2001, Rick was working as vice-president of security at Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter in the south tower of the World Trade Center.

"When American Airlines flight 11 struck the north tower, Rick reacted according
to the training he had and the plans he developed following the 1993 terrorist
attack on the World Trade Center.  Against the advice of officials, he ordered
an immediate evacuation of all 2,700 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter employees from
the building and led them to safety.

"After the evacuation, United Flight 175 hit the south tower. He then re-entered
the building to search for survivors. He was never seen again.

"Due to Rick's heroic actions, more than 2,700 lives were saved that day.  The
extraordinary courage and selflessness displayed by Rick Rescorla is an
inspiration and credit to the state of New Jersey and to his fellow Americans."

Born on the eve of the Second World War, Mr Rescorla grew up in Hayle, West
Cornwall, before moving to London and joining the Metropolitan Police and later
the British Army, serving in Rhodesia and Cyprus.

He moved to America at the age of 23, becoming a citizen and joining the US army
to serve as a lieutenant and platoon leader in the Vietnam War.

A total of 2,973 people were killed in 2001 when terrorists hijacked aircraft
and flew them into New York's World Trade Center  and the Pentagon in Virginia.

Witnesses recalled Mr Rescorla singing Cornish songs through his megaphone to
keep their spirits up during the evacuation.

A now-famous photograph emerged showing him on the 42nd floor holding the
loudhailer as he ushered people to safety. His body was never recovered.

His widow Susan has made numerous visits to Cornwall since his death, including
opening a nature garden at Penpol Primary School, where her husband had been a
pupil.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday

Top honour for Cornish hero of 9/11 attack;
A cornish hero killed in the September 11 terrorist attacks in 2001 has been
honoured with the most prestigious civilian award in the United States.

BYLINE: Andy Greenwood Chief Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 502 words


Rick Rescorla, who was born and raised in Hayle, West Cornwall, helped save the
lives of 2,700 people by ensuring they evacuated the World Trade Center  south
tower before it collapsed after being hit by one of two hijacked airliners.

The 62-year-old former US Vietnam War veteran, who was head of security for
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, was killed when the tower collapsed. He has already
received several posthumous honours. A memorial stone was unveiled in his home
town in Cornwall while a statue of him stands at Fort Benning, Georgia, where he
had trained to be a US army officer. US soldiers also named a forward operating
base in Farah  Province, Afghanistan, after him.

Now he has been recognised by the Congressional Medal of Honour Society - a
group of fewer than 100 surviving servicemen who have earned America's highest
bravery medal.

At a ceremony held in the shadow of the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington
Cemetery, Virginia, he was honoured with the society's Above and Beyond Citizen
Medal.

The award was accepted by his children, Kim and Trevor.

The citation read: "Rick Rescorla, of New Jersey, has been recognised for his
heroic actions for the courageous rescue of his fellow citizens.

"On September 11, 2001, Rick was working as vice-president of security at Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter in the south tower of the World Trade Center.

"When American Airlines flight 11 struck the north tower, Rick reacted according
to the training he had and the plans he developed following the 1993 terrorist
attack on the World Trade Center.  Against the advice of officials, he ordered
an immediate evacuation of all 2,700 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter employees from
the building and led them to safety.

"After the evacuation, United Flight 175 hit the south tower. He then re-entered
the building to search for survivors. He was never seen again.

"Due to Rick's heroic actions, more than 2,700 lives were saved that day.  The
extraordinary courage and selflessness displayed by Rick Rescorla is an
inspiration and credit to the state of New Jersey and to his fellow Americans."

Born on the eve of the Second World War, Mr Rescorla grew up in Hayle, West
Cornwall, before moving to London and joining the Metropolitan Police and later
the British Army, serving in Rhodesia and Cyprus.

He moved to America at the age of 23, becoming a citizen and joining the US army
to serve as a lieutenant and platoon leader in the Vietnam War.

A total of 2,973 people were killed in 2001 when terrorists hijacked aircraft
and flew them into New York's World Trade Center  and the Pentagon in Virginia.

Witnesses recalled Mr Rescorla singing Cornish songs through his megaphone to
keep their spirits up during the evacuation.

A now-famous photograph emerged showing him on the 42nd floor holding the
loudhailer as he ushered people to safety. His body was never recovered.

His widow Susan has made numerous visits to Cornwall since his death, including
opening a nature garden at Penpol Primary School, where her husband had been a
pupil.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                             May 27, 2009 Wednesday

Dad's Terror After Cold Call Attack

BYLINE: Katy Simpson

SECTION: A; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 482 words


A BATTERED and bruised dad has spoken of his terror after being attacked on his
own doorstep.

Muhammad Arshad, 40, of Fenham, Newcastle, was left with blood pouring from his
forehead after he was pushed to the floor and beaten up outside his front door
by a gang of men armed with a stick.

The attack came minutes after a man knocked on his  door alone, asking for
donations towards the building of a mosque in Dewsbury, Yorkshire.

When Muhammad asked for his charity ID badge, the cold caller became abusive,
and the dad-of-two had to push him back off his Wingrove Road property.

Thinking that was the end of it, he returned indoors   to play with his son
Yousaf, who only visits at weekends.

But there was another knock at the door, and unsuspecting Muhammad was shocked
to discover the man had returned with a group of angry mates.

Muhammad, who works in a call centre, said: "I didn't look out before I answered
the door, so I had no idea they were there.

"As soon as I opened the door, there were so many of them coming forward. I
remember pushing one of them back and I got pulled out.

"They were swearing at me, but I didn't hear what they were saying because my
only concern was my little boy.  All I remember is I got hit on the head and the
next thing I knew I was looking up and one of them was hitting me on the arm
with a stick. Then they just ran off.

"It was like a pack of dogs or animals coming at me. It was probably only a
couple of minutes but it felt like forever.

"They probably thought they had hurt me quite badly, as there was a lot of
blood. A few years ago I had a stroke  and the medication makes me bleed easily,
so it looked worse than it was.

"My boy ran to the door and was crying, so I was trying to comfort him and at
the same time call the police and ambulance."

Muhammad was taken to Newcastle General Hospital where doctors said nothing was
broken, although he suffered extensive bruising and swelling.

He says it's not the first time he has been targeted by groups asking for money
to build mosques in Yorkshire, and is fed up with being pressured into giving
money.

Muhammad has decided not to take the matter further after being  told if he
decides to press charges, he could face a charge of assault for pushing the cold
caller off his property in the first place.

Neighbourhood Sergeant Paul Duncan said: "We received a call from a man
reporting that he had been assaulted at his home in Wingrove Road, Newcastle, at
around 4.20pm on May 24.

"On investigation, it was discovered the victim had taken exception to a cold
caller and ejected this person from the property when he refused to show ID.

"Shortly after, the man has returned with others and got involved in an affray
with the home owner. The home owner received minor injuries.

"All options to progress the case were explained fully to the caller, and he
made the decision not to make a complaint."

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday

Pakistan paper profiles change in "mode of action" during terror attacks

LENGTH: 1034 words


Text of report by Salman Aslam headlined "Terrorists change their modus
operandi" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 28 May

Lahore: The City on Wednesday [27 May] witnessed another terrorist attack on the
law enforcing agencies on the Fatima Jinnah Road.

This time the terrorists changed their mode of action as they first carried out
a ground attack on the Rescue 15 building and later used a vehicle which had an
explosive device fixed in it.

It is suspected that the material used in the attack was a mix of the RDX and
trinitrotoluene or TNT explosives. The RDX is used as a major component in many
plastic-bonded explosives to increase their intensity while the TNT is usually
used to shatter concrete structures and hillocks. At least 24 people have
reportedly been killed while over 200 injured in the attack.

The investigators say the similar mix of RDX and TNT explosives had been used in
an attack on 4 March 2008, when a suicide bomber forced his entry to the Navy
War College on The Mall, Lahore, by ramming his explosive-laden vehicle into the
main gate, killing eight navy employees on the spot. The incident occurred at
around 1:10 pm (PST) when classes in the Pakistan Navy War College were in
progress.

Another attack was carried out six days later on 11 March 2008, when a bomber
rammed his explosive-laden Shahzore truck into the main gate of the Federal
Investigation Agency headquarters in Lahore, killing 33 people. Hardly few
minutes later, yet another bomber ripped through an advertising agency's office
in Model Town, Lahore, confusing it with an undercover office of the Special
Investigation Authority (SIA), killing two children and their father.

Earlier, in anther attack on 10 January 2008, at least 24 people, including 17
policemen, were killed and 80 others injured in a suicide bomb blast outside the
Lahore High Court, minutes before the arrival of an anti-government lawyers'
procession. The blast ripped through GPO Chowk in front of the Lahore High Court
as the suicide bomber walked up to the about 60 riot police, who had gathered
there ahead of a protest by lawyers against the Musharraf government, and blew
himself up.

On 13 August 2008, a suicide blast in Lahore killed at least nine people and
injured more than 35, targeting policemen standing guard on the eve of the
Independence Day. The attack took place at the busy Dubai Chowk in the Allama
Iqbal Town area at 11:34pm as citizens appeared in the streets before midnight
to celebrate the 61st anniversary of the country's independence.

On 7 October 2008, three remote-controlled bombs exploded one after the other at
three juice shops in the Garhi Shahu area injuring seven people, including two
children and a woman. The first bomb went off at the Chhino Juice Corner near
the Garhi Shahu Chowk, injuring two waiters, aged 12 and 14.

Fifteen minutes later, the second explosion occurred at the Rehman Juice Corner,
which had been closed. The third bomb exploded after another 15 minutes at the
Dasco Juice Corner, injuring passers-by.

On 22 November 2008, at least three people, including a teenager, were injured
in a series of three explosions near the Alhamra Cultural Complex in Lahore,
where the World Performing Arts Festival was in progress. Police said at least
one of the explosions at 10:02pm (PST) might be of a timed device planted at the
cafeteria in the basement of the adjoining Punjab Institute of Language, Art and
Culture. Police were trying to locate the bombing site when another explosion
occurred less than 15 minutes later, injuring two workers. Another 15 minutes
later, a third explosion took place outside the Alhamra Cultural Complex gate,
injuring a 13-year-old boy.

On 24 December 2008, a woman, identified as Farzana Bibi, was killed and five
other people were injured as a mini-truck packed with explosives blew up in the
GOR-II area, police officials said. The windows of nearby houses were shattered,
several walls collapsed while a transformer also exploded. Superintendent of
Police Umar Virk said a mini-cabin with about 10kg explosives blew up on the
road. Forensic experts said the explosives were detonated by remote or a timer
device. The vehicle was completely destroyed. Police said the vehicle, belonging
to the Fisheries Department, was stolen on November 19. The target of the Lahore
blast was likely a police officer who had headed an operation that led to the
death of a leader of LeJ in 2002.

On 9 January 2009, five explosions were reported from two theatres in Lahore.
However, no casualty was reported. Four low-intensity bombs exploded in the main
electricity supply control room of the Al-Falah Theatre at around 8:20pm (PST)
while a high-intensity bomb exploded at the Tamasil Theatre at around 10:30pm at
Mozang Chungi. A suspect was arrested from the premises of the Al-Falah, who was
taken to the Civil Lines police station for interrogation. Declining to name a
group, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Investigations), Mushtaq Sukhera,
said people who opposed the cultural activities carried out the attacks.

On 3 March 2009, Sri Lankan cricketers narrowly escaped a terrorist attack when
terrorists ambushed a bus which was taking them to the Gaddafi Stadium for the
third day's play of the second test between Sri Lanka and Pakistan.

At least seven people, including six policemen escorting the Sri Lankans and the
driver of another van in the convoy, were killed and 20 others wounded in the
attack near the Liberty roundabout, 500 metres from the stadium. Seven Sri
Lankan players were among the wounded. A British coach, Paul Farbrace, and
Pakistani umpire Ahsan Raza were also injured in the attack.

On 30 March 2009, eight police recruits and a civilian were killed when a group
of 10 terrorists attacked the Police Training Centre, Manawan, with guns and
grenades. The security forces regained the control of the school in an operation
that lasted for more than eight hours. About 93 cadets and civilians were
injured. Punjab IGP Khawaja Khalid Farooq said one of the attackers was
arrested, another fled after being hit by a bullet and three blew themselves up
to avoid arrest.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 28 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday

Pakistan security heads fail to utilize alerts before terror attacks - paper

LENGTH: 322 words


Text of report by Mohammad Faisal Ali headlined "Security alerts fail to alert
security bosses" published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 28 May

Lahore: Suspected suicide attackers besides flattening a police building on
Wednesday also razed government's security measures for the high security zone
which it had taken in the wake of the ongoing military operation in Malakand
division.

The only prevention against terrorists, according to police officials, is
placing hurdles outside sensitive establishments in order to create deterrence
and minimise the intensity of attack.

A police source told Dawn the police had received some security alerts by secret
agencies and the government about possible attacks on important establishments
in the wake of the Swat military operation.

Such alerts issued through letters time and again failed to alter the police, he
said.

Enhanced security and placing hurdles was the only option for the police to
prevent the collateral damage as suicide bombers could not be stopped in any
way, the policeman believes.

Terrorists have struck in the Civil Lines division precincts thrice: GPO Chowk,
FIA headquarters and Naval War College.

A source claimed Lahore Commissioner Khusru Pervez had intimated the police
about likely terrorist activities.

Neither Lahore Capital City Police Officer Pervez nor SSP (operations) Shafique
Chaudhry was available for comment.

Owing to sensitivity of the matter and killing of six personnel of premier
intelligence agency in the suicide attack they remained tight-lipped.

Investigation teams: A high powered committee consisting officials of the CID
and federal government agencies will probe into the attack.

FIR: The Civil Lines police registered a case against six unidentified
terrorists under sections 302 and 324 of the Pakistan Penal Code, 7-Anti
Terrorism Act and 4/5 Explosives Act on behalf of the state.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 28 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                             May 28, 2009 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Street attack terror for nun

BYLINE: LUKE TRAYNOR

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 288 words


A NUN collapsed and suffered an angina attack after trying to stand up to a t r
uncheon-wielding robber.

Brave Ker r y Blair was confronted by Daniel Johnston as she walked alone at
night in Crosby.

The frightened 51-ye a r -old was threatened by him as he brandished a stolen
police truncheon on Drummond Road.

Johnston, 22, his face partly covered by his jacket, demanded her bag and pulled
at the straps.

Even though she mistakenly thought he was brandishing a knife, she bravely
refused to let go.

Sister Blair collapsed and suffered an angina attack as Johnston ran off
empty-handed.

Yesterday, J ohnston was jailed for three years and nine months by the judge.

David Evans, prosecuting, told Liver pool crown court heard that just 10 minutes
earlier, at 7.20pm on April 8 he had also tried to rob a 50-year-old woman as
she walked in Netherton.

He had again brandished the truncheon and demanded her bag, but she repeatedly
screamed and he ran off.

He was arrested shortly afterwards after two young girls, who had witnessed the
second attack, pointed him out to police.

Jailing Johnston, of no fixed address, for three years nine months Judge Gerald
Clifton said that he had picked on two vulnerable women and had continued with
the second offence despite his victim telling him she was a nun.

He described him as "dangerous".

Judge Clifton also imposed an extended two year licence. Johnston, for merly of
Churchill House, Seaforth, had pleaded guilty to two attempted robberies and
handling the stolen truncheon. The court heard he has previous convictions,
including wounding with intent.

Rebecca Blain, defending, said that Johnston, who had been brought up in care
and is barely literate, was r emorseful..

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                                  May 28, 2009

Highest us bravery medal for Hayle's September 11 hero;
A HAYLE-born hero who was killed in the September 11 terrorist attacks in 2001
has been honoured with the most prestigious civilian award in the United States.

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 311 words


Rick Rescorla, (pictured) who went to Penpol School, helped to save the lives of
2,700 people by ensuring they evacuated the World Trade Center's south tower
before it collapsed after being hit by one of two hijacked airliners.

The 62-year-old former US Vietnam War veteran, who was head of security for
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, was killed when the tower collapsed. He has already
received several posthumous honours. A memorial stone was unveiled on Penpol
Terrace, while a statue of him stands at Fort Benning, Georgia. Now he has been
recognised by the Congressional Medal of Honour Society - fewer than 100
surviving servicemen who have earned America's highest bravery medal.

At a ceremony in the shadow of the Tomb of the Unknowns, at Arlington Cemetery,
Virginia, he was honoured with the society's Above and Beyond Citizen Medal. The
award was accepted by his children, Kim and Trevor.

Part of the citation read: "Rick Rescorla, of New Jersey, has been recognised
for his heroic actions for the courageous rescue of his fellow citizens.

"On September 11, 2001, Rick was working as vice-president of security at Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter in the south tower of the World Trade Center.

"When American Airlines flight 11 struck the north tower, Rick ordered an
immediate evacuation of all 2,700 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter employees from the
building and led them to safety.

"After the evacuation, United Flight 175 hit the south tower. He then re-entered
the building to search for survivors. He was never seen again. Due to Rick's
heroic actions, more than 2,700 lives were saved that day."

Mr Rescorla grew up in Hayle before moving to London and joining the
Metropolitan Police and, later, the British Army, serving in Rhodesia and
Cyprus. He moved to America at 23, becoming a citizen and joining the US army
as a lieutenant and platoon leader in the Vietnam War.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2009 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                                  May 28, 2009

Highest us bravery medal for Hayle's September 11 hero;
A HAYLE-born hero who was killed in the September 11 terrorist attacks in 2001
has been honoured with the most prestigious civilian award in the United States.

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 311 words


Rick Rescorla, (pictured) who went to Penpol School, helped to save the lives of
2,700 people by ensuring they evacuated the World Trade Center's south tower
before it collapsed after being hit by one of two hijacked airliners.

The 62-year-old former US Vietnam War veteran, who was head of security for
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, was killed when the tower collapsed. He has already
received several posthumous honours. A memorial stone was unveiled on Penpol
Terrace, while a statue of him stands at Fort Benning, Georgia. Now he has been
recognised by the Congressional Medal of Honour Society - fewer than 100
surviving servicemen who have earned America's highest bravery medal.

At a ceremony in the shadow of the Tomb of the Unknowns, at Arlington Cemetery,
Virginia, he was honoured with the society's Above and Beyond Citizen Medal. The
award was accepted by his children, Kim and Trevor.

Part of the citation read: "Rick Rescorla, of New Jersey, has been recognised
for his heroic actions for the courageous rescue of his fellow citizens.

"On September 11, 2001, Rick was working as vice-president of security at Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter in the south tower of the World Trade Center.

"When American Airlines flight 11 struck the north tower, Rick ordered an
immediate evacuation of all 2,700 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter employees from the
building and led them to safety.

"After the evacuation, United Flight 175 hit the south tower. He then re-entered
the building to search for survivors. He was never seen again. Due to Rick's
heroic actions, more than 2,700 lives were saved that day."

Mr Rescorla grew up in Hayle before moving to London and joining the
Metropolitan Police and, later, the British Army, serving in Rhodesia and
Cyprus. He moved to America at 23, becoming a citizen and joining the US army
as a lieutenant and platoon leader in the Vietnam War.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2009 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The West Briton

                                  May 28, 2009

Highest us bravery medal for Hayle's September 11 hero;
A HAYLE-born hero who was killed in the September 11 terrorist attacks in 2001
has been honoured with the most prestigious civilian award in the United States.

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 311 words


Rick Rescorla, (pictured) who went to Penpol School, helped to save the lives of
2,700 people by ensuring they evacuated the World Trade Center's south tower
before it collapsed after being hit by one of two hijacked airliners.

The 62-year-old former US Vietnam War veteran, who was head of security for
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, was killed when the tower collapsed. He has already
received several posthumous honours. A memorial stone was unveiled on Penpol
Terrace, while a statue of him stands at Fort Benning, Georgia. Now he has been
recognised by the Congressional Medal of Honour Society - fewer than 100
surviving servicemen who have earned America's highest bravery medal.

At a ceremony in the shadow of the Tomb of the Unknowns, at Arlington Cemetery,
Virginia, he was honoured with the society's Above and Beyond Citizen Medal. The
award was accepted by his children, Kim and Trevor.

Part of the citation read: "Rick Rescorla, of New Jersey, has been recognised
for his heroic actions for the courageous rescue of his fellow citizens.

"On September 11, 2001, Rick was working as vice-president of security at Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter in the south tower of the World Trade Center.

"When American Airlines flight 11 struck the north tower, Rick ordered an
immediate evacuation of all 2,700 Morgan Stanley Dean Witter employees from the
building and led them to safety.

"After the evacuation, United Flight 175 hit the south tower. He then re-entered
the building to search for survivors. He was never seen again. Due to Rick's
heroic actions, more than 2,700 lives were saved that day."

Mr Rescorla grew up in Hayle before moving to London and joining the
Metropolitan Police and, later, the British Army, serving in Rhodesia and
Cyprus. He moved to America at 23, becoming a citizen and joining the US army
as a lieutenant and platoon leader in the Vietnam War.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 61


                         Copyright 2009 The West Briton
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              May 29, 2009 Friday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack in Iran

LENGTH: 87 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 29 May: Turkey condemned the terrorist attack which was staged in
Zahedan city of Iran on Thursday [28 May].

Turkish Foreign Ministry stated on Friday that Turkey was deeply sorry about the
terrorist attack which was staged on a mosque killing 19 people and injuring 125
others.

Turkey strongly condemned the attack and was sharing the pains of Iranian
people, added the ministry.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1225 gmt 29 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday

India: Map seized from slain "terrorist" in Mumbai attack case identified

LENGTH: 224 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 29 May: A witness in 26/11 terror attack trial Friday [29 May]
identified a map (of target spots) which was recovered from the pocket of slain
terrorist Abu Ismail by police in his presence immediately after the deadly
strikes.

According to prosecution, the map was prepared by accused Faheem Ansari who is
facing the trial along with Sabauddin Ahmed and captured Pakistani gunman
Mohammed Ajmal Amir Kasab. Sabauddin is charged with handing over maps to
Lashkar-e-Toiba conspirators.

The witness, Sanjay Sonawane, told special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam that
the map and a blank notebook wrapped in a packet was recovered by police and
shown to him. The packet was then sealed in his presence.

The witness said the map showed 12 places in Mumbai and these spots were circled
with red markings.

To a question by defence lawyer Abbas Kazmi, the witness said the map did not
contain green markings.

He was then confronted with the map which had red as well as green markings.

Prosecutor Nikam, however, contended that the green markings were made by
handwriting expert later and the witness had not seen them.

The map was drawn by hand and that is why a handwriting expert was called to
identify whether accused Faheem had drawn it.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1516gmt 29 May 09

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday

Coleraine attacks - A return to terror

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 87 words


The murder of Kevin McDaid in Coleraine last weekend, and the attacks on his
wife and Damian Fleming, for no other reason than their address suggested that
they might be Catholics are a grim reminder of what was and what could be again
unless prompt cross-community action is taken.

Accusations have been made against the PSNI and loyalist paramilitaries and they
must either be confirmed or immediately refuted. We, every last one of us, on
this island have come too far to allow the monsters of the past back into our
lives.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 2

Prince Harry lays wreath at Ground Zero in tribute to the victims of September
11 terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Christine Seib

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 195 words


New York Prince Harry, who is known in New York as the Party Prince, was in more
sombre mood for his first official engagement overseas (Christine Seib writes).

Less than two hours after arriving in New York, he was taken to the World Trade
Centre site where he laid a wreath in memory of almost 3,000 people who died in
terrorist attacks there on February 26, 1993 and September 11, 2001.

For the first engagement of his trip, paid for privately by the Queen, the
Prince inspected the building site where seven buildings, including the
collapsed twin towers, had stood, and met local fire fighters.

Monica Iken, whose husband Michael was at work on the 84th floor of the second
tower when it collapsed, only 11 months after they married and a day after
Michael's 38th birthday, said it meant "so, so much" that the Prince's time in
the Army gave him a personal connection to the WTC. "He knows this is where the
whole War on Terror started," she said.

Afterwards the Prince went to the British Garden in Hanover Square, Manhattan,
where he officially named the garden before holding a private meeting with
families of Americans and the 67 Britons who died in the atrocities.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                  June 1, 2009
                                 First Edition

Lahore terrorist attack 'burst our bubble', admits Sangakkara

BYLINE: Stephen Brenkley

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 361 words


Pressure, Kumar Sangakkara reminded everyone yesterday, was being shot at, not
playing a game of cricket. But in 15 minutes during which he was articulate,
passionate, sensible and profound, the captain of Sri Lanka also made clear the
importance of cricket to life.

Sri Lanka have not played since their coach was attacked by terrorists as they
made their way to the stadium on the third day of the Second Test against
Pakistan in March. Seven players were injured as bullets flew through the
vehicle.

"We thought we were Asian, we were a cricket team, we were never going to be
attacked in Pakistan," said Sangakkara as he talked of his team's preparations
for the World Twenty20. "We were quite wide of the mark and quite naïve."

Sangakkara and Muttiah Muralitharan, the team's leading player as well as team
manager Brendon Kuruppu withdrew last week from a speaking engagement at the
Oxford Union because of security issues.

"We had requested after Lahore for increased security and to make sure security
arrangements were in place because terrorism is now a global threat and the
bubble we lived in before Lahore has burst," said Sangakkara. "The Oxford
arrangements were unfortunately not made known to our security team well enough
in advance for them to set up the necessary arrangements there and that is why
it was cancelled.

"At the end of the day after Lahore the thing we have realised is that we have
gone through a terrible time but life goes on. We have got to play cricket
because cricket for us means normalcy. Of course we will still have a few
memories, all of them not very good."

Barely had the team arrived home in Sri Lanka than the civil war entered its
horrific final phase with Sinhalese government forces mounting attacks on the
strongholds of the Tamil rebels but Sangakkara is in no doubt about the part
cricket could play in the healing process. He said: "Cricket over the years has
been that one unifying force, a passion of the whole country. It transcends
religion, caste, race and politics and that's the greatest thing we as a team
represent."

Many more words will be spoken in the next three weeks of the World Twenty20.
None will be wiser.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SS


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday

"Terrorist" attack in Boumerdes kills eight

LENGTH: 201 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper Echourouk El Youmi website
on 3 June

A terrorist group targeted, yesterday [Tuesday 2 June], one of the police
convoys escorting the shipping of the Brevet official exam papers in Timezrit.
The attack was carried out around 1720 local time.

A traditional grenade was remotely detonated via a mobile phone. Six policemen
and two civil servants were killed while two others were injured, a headmaster
and a municipal driver. They were transferred to the intensive unit ward in El
Thenia hospital.

Three ambulances rushed to the scene in order to shuttle the casualties to Bordj
Menaiel hospital and army reinforcements were immediately sent to comb the
forests nearby, our sources said.

The army undertook a series of operations aimed at surrounding the strongholds
of the terrorist group which perpetrated the attack. Military helicopters were
hovering all throughout last night.

The attack took place near the town of Timezrit, in Boumerdes province, a hotbed
of terrorist activities in previous years. This was witness to the largest
number of bombings, assassinations and makeshift roadblocks.

Source: Echourouk El Youmi website, Algiers, in Arabic 3 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Girl, 13, in terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 120 words


POLICE in West Yorkshire were today investigating an alleged rape of a
13-year-old girl in an attack believed to have involved a number of men.

Five men, aged between 17 and mid-20s, were arrested after the teenager was
allegedly subjected to a serious sexual assault in the Hoveringham Park area of
Harehills, Leeds, on Saturday evening.

All five were later bailed pending further inquiries, West Yorkshire Police
said.

It is understood the girl was raped by one man after being forced to engage in
sexual acts with around 12 others.

She is believed to have been found wandering in a traumatic condition in the
early hours of the next morning.

The teenager is now being looked after by specially trained officers..

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         Middlesbrough Evening Gazette

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday
                                  1st Edition

TEACHER'S DOG ATTACK TERROR;
Mum fought off Boxer to save son, aged 3

BYLINE: JOANNA DESIRA

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 552 words


A MUM is undergoing surgery today after a dog tore into her leg as she fought to
stop it attacking her three-year-old son.

Primary school teacher Lisa Hurndall was walking along Marske beach with her son
Jamie, her mum and two dogs when the incident occurred in front of shocked
onlookers.

Jamie had been playing in a pool of water left by the tide when a white Boxer
dog pulled him face down into the water.

Lisa, a 30-year-old single mum from Brotton, raced to save her son from the dog
which had hold of his shorts..

The dog retaliated by biting up and down her left leg leaving her with a deep
8cm long wound and muscle damage.

Lisa was taken to the James Cook University Hospital, following the incident at
about 3pm on Sunday.

She has already had one operation but has lost the feeling in her foot, is
having skin grafts today and will need physiotherapy. Lisa, who teaches three to
five-year-olds at Galley Hill Primary School in Guisborough, is worried the
injury may affect her career and is also concerned for her son. She said: "My
mum lives on the Headland in Marske and we were walking my two Rottweilers and
my son. My dogs are the softest dogs - we were at the cliff house where the
boats are. "There was a pool of water and I threw the dogs' ball into it. They
didn't go for it but my son picked it up and shouted for my dog China. "There
were five lads, aged 25 to 30, walking along, wearing Bermuda shorts with their
T-shirts tucked in the back so their top halves were naked and there was a white
Boxer with long legs - the lads had no control of it, it was bouncing all over
the place.

"My little boy was holding the ball shouting my dog's name when the Boxer jumped
up on him. He got frightened and it knocked him face down into in the pool. It
started pulling on the back of his shorts. "I saw red and ran across to the pool
shouting at the owner of the dog. I picked up my son and the dog sank its teeth
into my left leg, it wouldn't let go." Lisa tried to get the dog off her by
putting her hand into it's mouth but it didn't work. "It kept digging it's teeth
in and annihilated my leg - it was scary. "My mum ran across and tried to poke
the dog's eyes. "I lay down to give myself more strength. "You could see inside
my leg, the skin was hanging off."

District nurse Joanne Martin from Guisborough, who was on the beach with her
husband and daughters, looked after Jamie, who was hysterical, and they helped
pull the dog off Lisa. Her five daughters helped find towels and blankets for
Lisa. Lisa confronted the dog owner but when she asked for his details he
refused to hand them over and walked off in the direction of Bydales School.
Lisa was taken off the beach to an ambulance in a coastguard's van. She will not
be able to return to work for at least six weeks. "My career is on the line,"
she said. "I'm a foundation stage teacher and I spend all my day running after
three to five year olds.

I am very active." Jamie and the dogs are being looked after by Lisa's parents
Malcolm and Iris. Lisa wants anyone with any information about the dog to come
forward so that it will not attack anyone else in future. Redcar Police are
investigating the incident and would like to talk to the owner of the dog or any
witnesses. They are urged to contact PC Stenson on 01642 302 626.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SURGERY: Lisa in hospital today WOUND: Lisa suffered an 8cm long
injury in the dog attack on Marske beach and undergoes surgery at James Cook
hospital today

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                Stamford Mercury

                             June 3, 2009 Wednesday

Preparing for terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 177 words



HIGHLIGHT:

BUSINESSES have been learning how to deal with a terrorist attack during a
briefing by the police.


Lincolnshire Police is running a series of workshops throughout the county known
as Project Argus to brief businesses on how to counter a terrorist attack and on
Wednesday businesses in Stamford attended the workshop at Stamford Arts Centre
in St Mary's Street, Stamford.

The police were keen to emphasise that they had no intelligence to suggest a
terrorist attack is imminent in the area.

About 30 representatives from businesses attended the talk, which included a
multimedia simulation of an attack which poses a series of dilemmas for the
participants to solve.

Lincolnshire Police spokesman James Newall said: "We were really pleased with
the turnout. The idea was to get businesses to start thinking about contingency
plans in the unlikely event of a terrorist attack or a major incident in the
town.

"The message is it is better to make a plan that you will never actually use
instead of not having a plan at all."

Project Argus is a two-year project which has been developed by the National
Counter Terrorism Security Office with support from the Home Office.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STAM


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Ballymoney & Moyle Times

                                  June 4, 2009

Ballycastle man to develop blueprint for crises communication in the aftermath
of a terrorist attack

LENGTH: 682 words



HIGHLIGHT: A BALLYCASTLE man is working with international partners to develop a
blueprint for crises communication to help optimise communication and
information flow in the aftermath of a terrorist attack.


Ulster's Professor of Communication Owen Hargie, a past pupil of Ballycastle
High School, and his colleagues in the School of Communication, Dr Mairead McCoy
and Dr Pauline Irving have been awarded European funding of 162,183 to
investigate 'Counter-Terrorism Crisis Communications Strategies for Recovery and
Continuity'. The funding is part of a £1.3 million EU grant for a collaborative
project with universities in Germany, Bulgaria, Spain, Israel and Greece.


The research will help provide public authorities across Europe with crisis
communication plans specifically designed to react effectively in the aftermath
of terror attacks. It will examine communication strategies implemented
following terror attacks in different countries, as well as the requirements for
effective crisis communications. According to Professor Hargie, this type of
comparative research has never been carried out.
"Current 'state of the art' crisis communications is limited and concentrates
mainly on corporate crises, such as product liability issues, bankruptcies,
large scale forced redundancies and economic crises with some attention given to
natural disasters like oil spills or nuclear issues.
"Contemporary crisis communications literature does not refer to terror attacks
so there is an acute need to investigate and research terror crisis
communications across different countries in order to enhance the preparation of
public authorities in the event of such attacks.
"This will be an opportunity for us to learn from best practice in other
countries and to incorporate our findings into a comprehensive communication
strategy which in turn will minimise confusion and disruption to services.
The first stage of the research project will analyse the communication
challenges terror attacks pose to public authorities. The second stage will have
an in-depth look at recent terror attacks, focussing on the effectiveness of
different communication strategies adopted by public authorities. The third and
final stage will be to develop a comprehensive communication strategy which
public authorities throughout Europe could use as a template in the event of a
terrorist attack.
Dr Irving pointed out that by considering examples of best practice elsewhere,
they will work in collaboration with partner universities to develop a terrorism
crisis communications manual and a comprehensive training and simulation
programme, including audio-visual training aids.
"This will enable public authorities throughout Europe to develop, train and
adapt their own terror crisis communication plans and incorporate them within
their wider crisis plans."
Outlining the background to the research proposal, Dr Irving added that the
rapid expansion of global terrorism meant that every government office, local
authority and organisation is now exposed to the threat of a terrorist attack.
"Terrorist attacks usually come where least expected, as terrorists become
globally mobile and search for vulnerable targets across Europe and other
countries. A terror attack causes loss of life and destruction of facilities but
also wider public panic, misunderstanding and fear. "
Dr McCoy highlighted the fact that: "Recovery from a terror attack depends on a
carefully planned and effective communications strategy, aimed at three target
audiences: the media, the general public and internal employees of the
authorities affected by the attack. Only by preparing beforehand could an
authority be assured of an effective counter-terrorism communication strategy
that dovetails within wider crisis management and continuity plans.
"This will enable authorities at every level - governmental, regional and local
- to be better prepared to deal with the aftermath of terrorist attacks and
ensure that their reaction, in case of such a surprise attack, is thoroughly
planned and trained well in advance of such a tragedy.
"By having a ready crisis communication strategy for terror crises, authorities
can significantly decrease a major effect that the terrorists seek to achieve -
public panic, confusion and chaos," concluded Dr McCoy.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BALM


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday

West Indian state vulnerable to terrorist attacks -Air Force official

LENGTH: 404 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Ahmedabad, 3 June: India's western state of Gujarat, which has a number of key
economic installations along its coastline and shares land border with Pakistan,
is highly vulnerable to terrorist attacks, Air Marshall and Commander-in-cheif
of South-Western Air Command (SWAC) K. D. Singh said here Wednesday.

"There are certain vulnerabilities of Gujarat, one that it is prone to
infiltration from across the border through the vast desert in the north, the
creek area (in the west) and the sea (along the Kutch and Saurashtra region),"
Singh said while delivering the Chinabahi Patel Memorial Lecture here Wednesday
[3 June].

"Since there are targets available (of economic importance) and
sensationalization is what the terrorists want. Vulnerability for terrorist
attacks are high in Gujarat. Any terrorist attack in this region, if carried out
on economic targets, can have very high stakes for India," he said.

"Why have we been worried about Gujarat, which I have been stating is the 'soft
underbelly' of the country? We have power plants, ports and oil refineries and
nuclear plants in the state," he pointed out.

He said Essar and Reliance refineries located along the coast in Jamnagar
district are the most vulnerable and very important to Indian economy.

"Along the western border the route Mumbai to Sir Creek (in Kutch) is an area
vulnerable to attack from the sea, air and land from Pakistan. It (attack) would
have a very big economic impact on India if it happens," Singh said.

Elaborating on the threat of infiltration, the SWAC Commander-in-Chief said
inflitration can also take place in Gujarat through the desert along the
Indo-Pak border. "Though the Border Security Force (BSF) along the boarder is
putting its effort to stop infiltration, it is not 100 per cent effective,"
Singh said.

He was of the opinion that there is an immediate need of a system to police the
long coastline of Gujarat.

"We have a long coastline in Kutch where boats can come. Unless we have a system
to police the coastline, we can't stop these boats. This has become very clear
to us after the Mumbai attack (on November 26 last year)," he said.

"It is very clear that the boat could have been easily intercepted at Jakhau or
Porbander but patrolling for checking the movement of boats is very less in the
region," Singh said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1932gmt 03 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

WORLD 'Terrorists attacked' crash jet

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 41 words


A terrorist attack was 'highly likely' to be behind Sunday's jet crash in the
Atlantic, a pilot claimed yesterday. A bomb on board was the probable cause, he
said. A threat was made to an Air France plane in Argentina days earlier, it was
claimed P13.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

'Terrorist attack' claim over Air France crash

BYLINE: AidAn RAdnedge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 193 words


A TERRORIST attack was 'highly likely' to be behind the Air France plane crash
in the Atlantic, a pilot claimed yesterday.

The unnamed flyer said a bomb explosion on board was the probable cause, he told
a French newspaper.

'I have flown these jets for Air France for more than ten years and the chances
of an electrical fault seem unfeasible to me,' he added.

A bomb threat was made against an Air France plane flying from Buenos Aires days
earlier, it has emerged.

A warning phone call came in ahead of take-off on Wednesday last week but a
search revealed nothing.

An attack could not be ruled out because it is 'the main threat for all Western
democracies' but no one had claimed responsibility, said French defence minister
Hervé Morin.

Flight 447 left Rio for Paris on Sunday with 228 people on board, including five
Britons, but disappeared. A 7m (23ft) piece of wreckage and a 20km (12 mile) oil
slick were found yesterday - but no signs of life.

Automatic messages sent by the Airbus A330 warned of the plane's 'cabin vertical
speed' as it dropped. The vital black box recorders may never be found deep
beneath the sea as they emit signals for only 30 days.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The slick believed to be from the fuel of the Air France flight 1,200
km northeast of Recife
Picture: Reuters

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                             June 4, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1

'Terror attack' claim over French jet crash

BYLINE: Aidan Radnedge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 252 words


A TERRORIST attack was 'highly likely' to be behind the Air France plane crash
in the Atlantic, a pilot claimed yesterday.

The unnamed flyer said a bomb explosion on board was the probable cause, he told
a French newspaper.

'I have flown these jets for Air France for more than ten years and the chances
of an electrical fault seem unfeasible to me,' he added.

A bomb threat was made against an Air France plane flying from Buenos Aires days
earlier, it has emerged.

A warning phone call came in ahead of take-off on Wednesday last week but a
search revealed nothing.

An attack could not be ruled out because it is 'the main threat for all Western
democracies' but no one had claimed responsibility, said French defence minister
Hervé Morin.

It came as the first photo emerged of 11-year-old British victim Alexander
Bjoroy, who was on his way back to school in Bristol after half-term.

His Brazil-based parents, Robin and Jane, said yesterday: 'We are deeply upset
about the loss of our son under such tragic circumstances. Our thoughts are also
with the families and friends of all those on board.' Flight 447 left Rio for
Paris on Sunday with 228 people on board, inc-ludinfive Britons, but
disappeared. A 7m (23ft) piece of wreckage and a 20km (12 mile) oil slick were
found yesterday - but no signs of life. Automatic messages sent by the Airbus
A330 warned of the plane's 'cabin vertical speed' as it dropped. The vital black
box recorders may never be found deep beneath the sea as they emit signals for
only 30 days.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Trace: A slick is found by a search plane and, below, British victim
Alexander Bjoroy Picture: Reuters/SWNS
Picture: Reuters/SWNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 5, 2009 Friday

Intelligence body warns of terror attacks in south India

LENGTH: 190 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Hyderabad, 4 June: An alert was sounded on Thursday [4 June] in the capital of
India's southern state of Andhra Pradesh following inputs from Intelligence
Bureau (IB) that three terrorists have entered in the country and are planning
to strike important cities of south India.

Security has been beefed up at major hospitals and crowded places including
railway and bus stations in the city, City Police Commissioner B. Prasada Rao
told PTI.

The police have already taken up checking and frisking operations in different
localities in the city here in view of the IB inputs, he said.

Urging people to inform the police if they found any suspicious stranger not
able to speak native language, the Commissioner issued instructions to the
policemen to be vigilant.

Rao also requested owners of the lodges and hotels to keep a watch on the
movement of their customers and ascertain their identity.

Three terrorists, in the age group of 30 years, have entered the country and
planning to strike in south Indian cities, according to IB sources.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1504gmt 04 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

Turkey condemns terror attack in Pakistan

LENGTH: 148 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara, 5 June: Turkey strongly condemned the terrorist attack that took place
in Pakistan on Friday [5 June].

Releasing a written statement, the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs said,
"Turkey strongly condemns the abhorrent terror attack that took place today
during Friday prayers in a mosque in Upper Dir region of North Western Frontier
Province in brotherly Pakistan".

The ministry's statement said that forty people were killed and many other were
injured in the attack according to initial data.

"Considering terrorism as a common enemy of humankind, Turkey, as always, stands
in solidarity with the Pakistani people," the statement said, adding that Turkey
would continue to support the people of Pakistan to ensure their well-being and
security.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1752 gmt 5 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 6, 2009 Saturday

German security agencies warn of terrorist attacks ahead of elections

LENGTH: 473 words


Text of report by independent German Spiegel Online website on 6 June

[Unattributed report: "Security Agencies Warn of Terror Attacks Prior to
Bundestag Election" - Spiegel Online headline. First paragraph is an
introduction.]

Spiegel magazine understands that Al-Qa'idah is believed to be already pulling
out all the stops to attack Germans prior to the Bundestag election -whether
tourists on vacation, or those still back home in the Federal Republic itself.

Hamburg -The planned attacks are understood to be intended as reprisals for
Germany's engagement in Afghanistan, and to secure the Federal Armed Forces'
withdrawal. This assessment is based partly on a new warning by the US
Government, that Al-Qa'idah's leadership in the Afghan-Pakistani border region
has already made a decision to this effect. The group's north African branch,
known as Al-Qa'idah in the Maghreb, is reckoned to have been tasked with
carrying out the attacks.

In the view of the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV)
[homeland intelligence] and the Federal Criminal Police Office (BKA), Algerian
branches of German firms and German citizens in north Africa are particularly at
risk. However, the security agencies also warn of possible attacks inside
Germany itself. The BKA has therefore circulated an updated threat assessment to
all regional state security agencies.

Al-Qa'idah in the Maghreb is seen by the German authorities as particularly
dangerous, since it comprises mainly Algerians and Tunisians maintaining good
contacts in western Europe, though it is unclear just how effective its
structures outside north Africa are at present. The BfV has made a start on
warning German firms represented in the Maghreb of possible attacks. Discussions
are also taking place to brief German businesspersons on the danger of
kidnapping by Al-Qa'idah activists.

Only last April, Darmstadt resident Marianne P. regained her liberty following
several months of captivity, after the Mali government had declared its
willingness to release an Al-Qa'idah member it held.

The BKA and the intelligence services reckon that future abductions may proceed
less smoothly, in line with instructions from the Al-Qa'idah leadership, and
could be tied to impracticable political demands, such as withdrawal from
Afghanistan.

The latest situation assessment is in line with the large number of video
messages emanating from Afghanistan attacking the Federal Government's policies.
As recently as the end of last week, a new propaganda video from the "Islamic
Jihad Union"" threatening attacks was announced.

At the beginning of this year, Bekkay Harrach, an Islamist from Bonn who has
gone to ground in Afghanistan, threatened Germany with attacks. Harrach is
believed to have a key role within Al-Qa'idah.

Source: Spiegel Online website, Hamburg, in German 6 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          Huddersfield Daily Examiner

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

MASKED GANG IN PUB TERROR ATTACK;
Raiders beat sleeping couple

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 95 words


THIS is the brave couple who refused to give in to masked thugs.

Paul and Samantha Bloor took a brutal beating from the three masked men who
burst into their Brockholes pub.

But the couple refused to hand over the takings from the Travellers' Rest -
despite being beaten with . Full story - Page 5 bricks and kicked repeatedly.

The gang struck in the early hours while the couple were asleep. The raiders
smashed their way into the pub through a window.

Both victims were taken to hospital with head injuries as detectives launched a
manhunt for the masked attackers..

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday

Suspect in terror attack planned for 5 May in Moscow detained

LENGTH: 207 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency RIA Novosti

Moscow, 10 June: The Russian Federal Security Service and the Interior Ministry
have prevented a major terrorist attack in Moscow planned to be staged shortly
before Victory Day, 9 May; a suspect has been detained, a source in the Russian
security agencies told RIA Novosti news agency today.

The neo-Nazi planned to stage a terrorist attack in a public place on 5 May, the
source said.

The suspect was detained and his possible involvement in the terrorist attacks
previously staged in Moscow is being checked.

"The detained person is a 16-year-old resident of Lyublino district, Moscow,
that made a 8-kg explosive device at home. His name has been withheld in the
interests of the investigation, the suspect is undergoing a psychiatric
examination," the source said.

According to the security agencies, the suspect made the bomb using the
instructions posted on the Internet where he also posted nationalist appeals.

"It is impossible to institute criminal proceedings against the detainee because
he is a minor," the source added.

RIA Novosti has not so far obtained an official comment from the law-enforcement
agencies.

Source: RIA Novosti news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0641 gmt 10 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday

Pakistan hotel releases surveillance footage of terror attack

LENGTH: 296 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Peshawar [North-West Frontier Province], 10 June: The administration of Pearl
Continental Hotel Wednesday [10 June] released CCTV footage of powerful
explosion in which 15 people were killed and around 50 injured to media.

According to CCTV footage, the hotel security staff first cleared a 2D motorcar
on entrance of the gate and was subsequently being cleared. A Shahzoor truck
packed with explosive was closely following the car and was driven up to the car
parking of the hotel without checking. The security staff in main gate of PC
Hotel was seen busy in exchange of firing with terrorists outside of the hotel
on Khyber Road.

Soon after entry into the hotel, the suicide bomber blew up the explosive-laden
truck with a big bang in the car parking area, and black smoke engulfed the
whole building as the sound of explosion was heard in Peshawar.

Meanwhile, the relief activities continued at PC Hotel. The bodies of hotel
manager Syed Kamal Shah, hotel security guard and three UN Population Fund aid
workers Muhammad Miskeen, Fawwad and Tahir were recovered from the debris,
police and hotel authorities said.

The district administration has provided the crane and other equipment for
removing the debris of the building. The relief activities are going on at a
slow pace due to the lack of equipment.

Meanwhile, a high-level probe committee led by CCPO [Capital City Police
Officer] Sifwat Ghayur has been constituted to probe the deadly blast.

The team went to the PC Hotel and collected preliminary evidence. According to
the preliminary investigation, the suicide bombers used 500 kilograms of
explosive.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1308gmt
10 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            June 10, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2

Guilty and hanged - Bollywood prejudges terror attacks trial

BYLINE: Rhys Blakely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 207 words


Mumbai Bollywood has a track record of spinning dubious fiction out of real-life
events but the first film to be based on the Mumbai terror atrocity is poised to
test the limits (Rhys Blakely writes).

The producers of Total Ten, one of whose actors is seen on the set, right, say
that their film tells the true story of Azam Amir Kasab, 21, the Pakistani
national alleged to be the sole terrorist caught alive during the attacks in
November.

However, there are concerns that the low-budget film risks prejudicing Mr
Kasab's trial - in which he has pleaded not guilty - not least because it ends
with him being sentenced to death and hanged.

Mr Kasab is accused of 166 counts of murder and waging war against India. Abbas
Kazmi, his lawyer, said that Total Ten (the title refers to the ten terrorists
who allegedly attacked Mumbai) risked derailing one of the highest-profile
trials in the country. "Any depiction of the attacks would jeopardise the
proceedings," he said.

The film-makers have shrugged off suggestions that they could prejudice the
case. "We are only showing what was shown to the world by TV channels live,"
Sugath Kumar, one of the producers of Total Ten, said.

"The best part is that we have a Kasab lookalike playing the role."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WWW.MOVIETALKIES.COM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                                 June 10, 2009

Indian Terrorist attacks send England home

SECTION: YOURNEWSSUTTON (YOURNEWSSUTTON)

LENGTH: 336 words


A recent terrorist attack in India's largest populated city, Mumbai, has caused
the English cricket team to return home. The attacks were directed at two hotels
in the city, The Oberoi Trident Hotel and the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel, where many
English and American tourists were staying. One hotel suffered very badly,
having fires raging for many hours before the Indian fire brigade put it out.
England's cricket team fled from their cricket tour in India fearing that they
would be targeted in the attacks. It is up to England whether they return to
this tour or not and some of their best players, Steve Harmison and Andrew
Flintoff, have speculated that they may not travel back to India even if the
squad does. England still has to play two test matches against India and their
coach Peter Moores has said, "We have to be at our best to beat India, they are
a very strong side". Despite this comment one of England's chief selectors,
Geoff Miller, has confirmed that opting out of this tour will not prejudice
future selections.

England had a torrid time in the one-day series losing all five matches, some of
them by huge margins and the morale within the England squad is low. Despite
this the majority of the Merton public thinks that England will bounce back
immediately, but the team will need to be in tip top form to defeat the,
currently high flying, India squad with quality players, like Virender Sehwag,
Zaheer Khan and Sachin Tendalker.

The Oberoi Trident hotel and the Taj Mahal palace hotel in Mumbai have, since
the attack, reopened for business, but the managers of both hotels (both hotels
are 5 star) are deeply concerned about the hotels' future. English, American and
Indian armies had to stay on full alert for three days strait to restore order
in the hotels and none of the attacking terrorists survived the attempted attack
and one hundred and one people died in the overall attack. A horrific disaster
and one which we will hope not to see a repeat of in the near future.

By Chris McAlister

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 11, 2009 Thursday

Russia: Major terror attack averted in Dagestan - TV

LENGTH: 183 words


A major terrorist attack has been averted in the Russian North Caucasus republic
of Dagestan, RGVK Dagestan TV reported on 11 June.

Mine experts from the Federal Security Service defused a bomb on the Buynakskiy
mountain pass after a tip-off last night, TV said. The power of the improvised
bomb totalled 5 kg of TNT equivalent, TV quoted the FSB as saying.

In the meantime, the president of Dagestan, Mukhu Aliyev, has said that the
number of terrorist crimes committed in the republic has increased by 50 per
cent, Interfax news agency reported.

"Thirty terrorist crimes were committed in the republic this year," Interfax
quoted Aliyev as saying. "The figure for the same period last year was 20."

The president said that the majority of such crimes were committed in the
capital Makhachkala, as well as in Khasavyurt and Khasavyurtovskiy District.
Aliyev said that 22 members of the law-enforcement agencies and 47 rebels had
been killed in Dagestan this year, the agency reported.

Sources: RGVK TV, Makhachkala, in Russian 1230 gmt 11 Jun 09; Interfax news
agency, Moscow, in Russian 0744 gmt 11 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday

Terror campaign of sex attack student

BYLINE: SENTINEL REPORTER

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 385 words


Sex offender Achala Dadallage groped female students walking back to their
university digs in the early hours of the morning.

The 27-year-old Sri Lankan struck three times at Keele University campus between
November and January, grabbing his victims' breasts from behind.

Dadallage, of Keele Road, Newcastle, also followed two girls round a church in
Newcastle on December 23 before groping a 17-year-old's breasts on the stairway
to a car park.

The defendant, who was studying for an MA in law at Keele University, pleaded
guilty to four charges of sexual assault. He was sentenced at Stoke-on-Trent
Crown Court yesterday.

The court heard the first attack took place at 12.20am on November 1 at Keele
University campus.

Dadallage wore a 'Joker' mask and targeted an 18-year-old girl  walking home
with her friend after a night out drinking.

Robert Price, prosecuting, said: "He put both hands down her top and squeezed
causing physical pain. The defendant then started laughing."

Dressed all in black on January 24, Dadallage groped a 19-year-old girl walking
away from Keele University Union at 12.30am.

After she ran off, Dadallage targeted a second, 24-year-old girl heading home
from the union bar about 45 minutes later.

Police officers picked him up driving away from the campus.

Anis Ali, defending, said: "There is no rational explanation or reasoning except
that he was deeply under the influence of excessive alcohol consumption and
emotionally unstable.

"This has been a devastating experience for him and his family. He is faced with
losing everything and has brought embarrassment and shame to his family in Sri
Lanka. There are reports that his wife in Sri Lanka has turned to self harm."

Judge Robert Trevor-Jones imposed a 22-month prison sentence and ordered
Dadallage be automatically considered for deportation.

He was also ordered to sign the sex offenders' register for 10 years.

The judge said: "Before this incident you had a lot to be pleased and proud
about, but all that has been thrown away."

Sean Flaherty, Chief Immigration Officer at the UK Border Agency, Stoke, said:
"This individual made repeated attempts to evade prosecution and it is down to
the collaboration between the CID at Newcastle and the UK Border Agency in
Staffordshire that a serious sexual offender has been brought to justice."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2009 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday

Terror campaign of sex attack student

BYLINE: SENTINEL REPORTER

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 385 words


Sex offender Achala Dadallage groped female students walking back to their
university digs in the early hours of the morning.

The 27-year-old Sri Lankan struck three times at Keele University campus between
November and January, grabbing his victims' breasts from behind.

Dadallage, of Keele Road, Newcastle, also followed two girls round a church in
Newcastle on December 23 before groping a 17-year-old's breasts on the stairway
to a car park.

The defendant, who was studying for an MA in law at Keele University, pleaded
guilty to four charges of sexual assault. He was sentenced at Stoke-on-Trent
Crown Court yesterday.

The court heard the first attack took place at 12.20am on November 1 at Keele
University campus.

Dadallage wore a 'Joker' mask and targeted an 18-year-old girl  walking home
with her friend after a night out drinking.

Robert Price, prosecuting, said: "He put both hands down her top and squeezed
causing physical pain. The defendant then started laughing."

Dressed all in black on January 24, Dadallage groped a 19-year-old girl walking
away from Keele University Union at 12.30am.

After she ran off, Dadallage targeted a second, 24-year-old girl heading home
from the union bar about 45 minutes later.

Police officers picked him up driving away from the campus.

Anis Ali, defending, said: "There is no rational explanation or reasoning except
that he was deeply under the influence of excessive alcohol consumption and
emotionally unstable.

"This has been a devastating experience for him and his family. He is faced with
losing everything and has brought embarrassment and shame to his family in Sri
Lanka. There are reports that his wife in Sri Lanka has turned to self harm."

Judge Robert Trevor-Jones imposed a 22-month prison sentence and ordered
Dadallage be automatically considered for deportation.

He was also ordered to sign the sex offenders' register for 10 years.

The judge said: "Before this incident you had a lot to be pleased and proud
about, but all that has been thrown away."

Sean Flaherty, Chief Immigration Officer at the UK Border Agency, Stoke, said:
"This individual made repeated attempts to evade prosecution and it is down to
the collaboration between the CID at Newcastle and the UK Border Agency in
Staffordshire that a serious sexual offender has been brought to justice."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2009 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               Skegness Standard

                             June 13, 2009 Saturday

Licensees in Skegness prepare for terrorist attack

BYLINE: helen bell

LENGTH: 249 words



HIGHLIGHT: Staurday, 1pm - A TERRORIST atttack was simulated at the Embassy Arts
Room in Skegness to teach people in the restaurant and pub industry how to
prepare for an incident.


Project Argus is a free initiative by the national counter terrorism security
office to encourage licencsees to boost security.

The session offered people from Skegness, Winthorpe, Ingoldmells and Chapel St
Leonards vital advice in helping them prevent, handle and recover from an
attack.

The focus of the event was crowded places and the exercise took managers and
deputies through a hard-hitting simulation.

Insp Phil Clark, licensing inspector, said: "Everyone remembers the incidents
outside the Tiger Tiger bar in Haymarket, London on June 27, 2007, and Glasgow
Airport on June 30, 2007.

"Both locations were targeted because they were crowded places, to cause maximum
trauma and casualties.

"We need to ensure our licensees and venue staff are aware of the threat, albeit
low, and what action to take should they have concerns.

"Although there is absolutely no suggestion a terrorist attack in Lincolnshire
is imminent, it's better to have a plan that you will never need to implement,
than a plan you don't have."

Around 60 people attended the event organised by specialist officers from
Lincolnshire Police and supported by the Lincolnshire Resilience Forum.

Tony Kelly, chair of Skegness Pubwatch, said: "Events like this are important in
today's unsettled climate.

"While an incident in Skegness is highly unlikely, it's reassuring local
businesses are working with all the relevant agencies in putting the safety and
well-being of their customers and staff at the forefront of their operations."

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SKEG


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 14, 2009 Sunday

Minister reports 40 per cent rise in terrorist attacks in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 365 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 14 June

[Presenter] The minister of interior affairs says terrorist attacks have
increased by 40 per cent during last week compared to the previous week.
Although the warm weather is said to be the season for the insurgents to launch
their offensives and attacks, the Ministry of Interior is saying the decision to
cause insecurity in Afghanistan and orchestrate attacks are made outside
Afghanistan. Pervez Shamal reports:

[Correspondent] The Ministry of Interior says it has faced a lot of terrorist
attacks last week. According to the figures released by the ministry, 78 people,
including 30 police officers, lost their lives and 172 others wounded in 126
enemy attacks last week.

[Interior Minister Mohammad Hanif Atmar, speaking at a press conference in
Kabul, in Dari] At least 120 terrorist attacks were carried out in 70 per cent
of the country, covering at least 25 provinces. These attacks included mine
blasts, armed attacks by the enemy and suicide attacks. Unfortunately, this
shows a 40-per-cent rise in insurgent attacks compared to the previous week.

[Correspondent] The Ministry of Interior is saying also that more than 200 armed
opponents were either killed or wounded during last week, showing a 45 per cent
rise in the casualties inflicted on the armed opponents. The Ministry of
Interior says warm weather is the season for Taleban's attacks and offensives,
adding that terrorist training centres are based in Pakistan where citizens of
the Central Asian countries and some Al-Qa'idah members are operating. The
ministry says all the terrorist attacks taking place in Afghanistan are
orchestrated outside Afghanistan.

[Interior Minister Mohammad Hanif Atmar, speaking at a press conference in
Kabul, in Dari] The problem is that there are people outside our country who
have decided to use huge financial and military resources to prolong war and
terrorism in our country.

[Correspondent] Meanwhile, the Ministry of Interior is expressing concern about
the presence and activities of Taleban in some areas of Afghanistan, saying it
is working on new plans to fight terrorism.

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 14 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 15, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Autopsies 'rule out' mid-air explosion;
Bodies from doomed Air France flight show no evidence of terrorist attack

BYLINE: John Lichfield IN PARIS

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 522 words


AUTOPSIES on the bodies recovered after the Airbus disaster in the south
Atlantic suggest there was no explosion or fire and therefore no terrorist
attack. But two weeks after Air France's AF447 fell from the sky between the
Brazilian and West African coasts, the mystery of what happened to the plane and
the 228 people on board remains largely impenetrable.

The automatic messages sent from the aircraft in its dying minutes suggest
problems with speed sensors, and also with the rudder in the tail. However,
French investigators are still uncertain whether these were symptoms, or the
principal causes, of the difficulties which overwhelmed the Airbus 330-200
flying from Rio to Paris on the night of 31 May and 1 June.

Autopsy reports on the first 16 bodies recovered from the ocean seem to have put
to rest the theory that the aircraft was the victim of a terrorist attack.
Details of the autopsies leaked to the Brazilian press at the weekend indicate
the bodies showed no sign of burning or damage from an explosion. The bodies
were recovered whole, which is also unusual after a mid-air explosion.
Examination by X-ray revealed no evidence the bodies had been penetrated by
shards of metal.

The 50 corpses discovered so far were recovered in two groups over 50 miles
apart. This suggests the aircraft may have disintegrated, fully or partially, in
mid-air.

An aviation website, EuroCockpit, has also published the full details of the 24
automatic messages transmitted by the airbus to Air France headquarters in the
minutes before it crashed. Much of this information - including the fact that
the aircraft was transmitting erratic and conflicting speed recordings - had
already been revealed.

The messages also show, however, that the aircraft may have had a problem with
its "rudder limiter", which prevents the main rudder, or steering device, in the
tail from moving beyond its safe range. Aviation experts said that, in theory,
if the rudder moved too far at speed, it could break off and take the "vertical
stabiliser" - or main part of the tailplane - with it. The tailplane is the
largest piece of wreckage from the A330-200 to have been recovered so far.
However, the experts also point out that there was nothing in the automatic
message which proved that the "rudder limiter" had failed, causing the crash.

The device might have simply locked itself into place because of the conflicting
speed readings. "The message tells us that the rudder limiter was inoperative,"
Jack Casey, an aviation safety expert in Washington told the Associated Press.

It is believed that the erratic speed readings may have been caused by
malfunctioning speed sensors - or pitot tubes - but it still remains unclear how
this problem alone could have brought down a modern aircraft so rapidly.

A French nuclear submarine is searching the ocean depths up to 15,000ft below
the crash site in the hope of picking up a message from the beacons fitted to
the aircraft's flight recorders. Senior French air crash investigation officials
have warned that it may never be possible to explain the crash unless the
recorders or "black boxes" are found.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday

India: Mumbai gunman breaks down over terror attack photographs

LENGTH: 216 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 15 June: Pakistani gunman Ajmal Kasab was seen weeping after photographs
showing him firing at people at the CST [Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus] railway
station last year were produced before the court Monday [15 June]. As his
photographs were taken on record by the court, Kasab was sitting with his head
down and sounded low. In the post-lunch session, when the witness was being
cross examined, tears rolled down Kasab's cheeks. As judge M. L. Tahaliyani
noticed him weeping, he asked: "Are you crying? What's the matter?" Kasab stood
up but did not say anything.

His lawyer Abbas Kazmi then told the judge that Kasab was not feeling well since
morning. The judge then asked him: "Why you did not tell me earlier? Anyway I
want you to be in the court so that you can instruct your lawyer. But if I find
that you are not able to sit in the court, then I will send you to the barrack."
Kasab then sat in the dock with his head down all the while. Outside the court,
Public Prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam said Kasab was shedding crocodile tears. The
witness, who produced the photographs, is a photo journalist who had captured
Kasab and his accomplice firing at people at CST on 26 November.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1516gmt 15 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 16, 2009 Tuesday

Pakistan parliament lodges, prisons warned of terror attacks

LENGTH: 153 words


Text of report headlined "Parliament lodges, jails under threat of attacks"
published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 15 June

Lahore: Terrorists are planning attacks on members of parliament in the
parliament lodges and to supply hand grenades to their accomplices in prison,
intelligence reports have warned.

Sources said on Sunday [14 June] that in the light of the warning, the Interior
Ministry's national crisis management cell (NCMC) has issued a circular to all
provincial home departments.

The circular said the terrorists from Swat planned to attack Senator Abdul Malik
and National Assembly member Noorul Haq Qadri.

Another report said a defunct organization had also planned to deliver hand
grenades to its accomplices detained in a jail.

The Interior Ministry has directed law enforcement agencies to make appropriate
security arrangements.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 15 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                      June 17, 2009 Wednesday 04:04 PM GMT

Mumbai terror attack police 'out of practice'

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 176 words


Armed police attending the Mumbai terror attacks were out of practice, a
committee investigating the shootings said today.

The state Rapid Action Force (RAF) had not practised using firearms since 2007,
the independent Ram Pradhan Committee found.

The committee added that the force have been unable to train due to a lack of
arms and ammunition although they are required to do so at least once every four
days.

The Mumbai director general of police did not approve the practice policy as a
result of administrative glitches and a communication gap, the committee said.

A report by the team said the city's police commissioner Hasan Gafoor acted
irresponsibly during the attacks. It said that he failed to take charge of the
situation.

The committee also noted the effect of the lack of unified command on the
working of the anti-terrorist squad. It added that the luxury Taj and Trident
hotels affected by the attacks had ignored security warnings, the Times of India
reported.

The attacks, on November 26 last year, killed nearly 200 people and injured many
more.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 18, 2009 Thursday

Pakistan TV reports Lahore terror attack mastermind arrested

LENGTH: 164 words


Text of report by state-run Pakistani television channel PTV News on 17 June

Police in Lahore have arrested the mastermind of terrorist attack on Sri Lankan
cricket team Zubair along with his three accomplices. Those apprehended included
Muhammad Rafiq, Muhammad Ahmad, and Hafiz Shakil. One of the suspected
terrorists Hafiz Shakil is from Pasrur and belongs to a banned outfit. Two
suicide jackets and maps have been recovered from him.

Rawalpindi police have arrested three terrorists belonging to Baitullah Mehsud's
network. CCPO [Capital City Police Officer] Rawalpindi Rao Muhammad Iqbal told
the media that the terrorists Qari Sanaullah, Rizwan Qadir, and Rizwan Mehmood
were involved in the Pir Wadhai suicide attack. A suicide jacket, two pistols,
and a hand grenade have been recovered from their possession. The CCPO said the
terrorists were planning to target crowded places in the twin cities [Islamabad
and Rawalpindi].

Source: PTV News, Islamabad, in English 1310gmt 17 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 18, 2009 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

' THEY ' WANTED TO KILL US AND SLIT OUR BABY'S THROAT ';
ULSTER'S RACIST SHAME HATE MOB FORCE OUT 30 ROMANIAN FAMILIES FROM THEIR HOMES:
MAN TELLS OF ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: VICTORIA MCMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1106 words


MORE than 110 Romanians forced out of their homes by racists moved to emergency
accommodation last night.

Men, women and children were bussed to the student accommodation in Belfast
after spending the day at a leisure centre.

And today the UK's Romanian General Consul will hold talks with the Northern
Ireland Executive in a bid to ease the plight of the 30 migrant families.

The Romanians fled after a racist gang - one allegedly brandishing a gun -
targeted homes in the Lisburn Road area of the city.

Yesterday many of the migrants at South Belfast's Ozone Centre told the Daily
Mirror they will now leave Northern Ireland.

Couaccusil Filuis said the mob had even threatened to kill children.

He added:"They made signs like they wanted to cut my brother's baby's throat.

"They said they wanted to kill us."

Father-of-four Dimitri told how he washes cars to make ends meet but cannot
stand the hatred in Belfast anymore and is taking his young family home.

Dimitri said: "It was very, very frightening. I have four children, the littlest
a year and six months. Here is now a problem. We don't like it anymore.

"We lived in South Belfast for two years and it was OK- no problem until
recently. Two weeks ago troubles started.

"My wife was in the house with the babies, she was very, very scared. The
windows were smashed and they kicked the doors.

"We are going back to Romania now. We are finished with Belfast."

His brother added: "Most people want to go back. Why stay here? Too much trouble
here."

Dimitri and his friends are doing the jobs which no one else wants but
hate-filled racist thugs are now driving them out.

The cowardly mobs hurled bricks through house windows and kicked doors in
shouting Nazi slogans and fascist Combat 18 chants as they went on the rampage.

Their targets were petrified pregnant women, children and one new terrified
mother whose baby was just five days old.

Maria, a mother of two, said the trouble escalated on Tuesday night when racist
thugs broke into her house and threatened her and her children.

She added: "We are OK, we are safe now. But we want to go home because right now
we are not safe here [in Northern Ireland].

"We want to go back home to Romania, everybody right now does.

"I want to go home because I have here two kids and I want my kids to be safe."

One man, who said his name was Deaglaz, showed a stitched wound on his abdomen
that he said had been caused by broken glass after the windows were smashed in
his house.

In broken English, he added: "Ten persons, they drink, they no good, they broke
in the house."

At the Ozone politicians filed past police guarding the centre's indoor tennis
courts, where the families were staying, before later facing the media
condemning the yobs.

Tensions rose when prominent South Belfast loyalist Jackie McDonald arrived, he
said, to show his support for the families but was turned away at the door.

He added: "We're trying to talk to young people to encourage them not to do what
they are doing."

After an emergency meeting with Government agencies it was agreed the 114
refugees will be housed in student accommodation at Queen's for a week.

Police officers will be stationed inside and outside the accommodation in a bid
to protect the families.

The temporary solution comes after the families were forced to flee from the
under siege homes in Wellesley and Belgravia Avenues on Tuesday night to take
shelter in a local church.

Pastor Malcolm Morgan of City Church said: "They were confused, bewildered and
they wanted to get out of the Lisburn Road to get away from the intimidation.

"The children didn't really understand, they thought it was a bit of an
adventure. But the parents understood and were clearly worried.

"We were thrilled that we had managed to be a place of refuge - a safe place. A
landlord came up and asked how he could help and he brought 15 mattresses.

"We saw the best of Belfast that night in the midst of a very difficult
situation, everybody coming together. It was brilliant to see so many agencies
coming together and helping."

First Minister Peter Robinson described the attacks as "deplorable". The DUP
leader added Romanians had assisted the economy and deserved the respect of the
community.

Voice Of The Mirror: Page 8

MINISTERS UNITE TO

CONDEMN ACTIONS

OF A FEW

NORTHERN Ireland's politicians showed a united front yesterday as they rallied
to support the 30 families.

Junior Minister Jeffrey Donaldson said "racism cannot be allowed to become the
new sectarianism".

Also visiting the families Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness added: "I
held a five-day-old baby girl in my arms today.

"She was born in Belfast and is now forced to leave her home as a result of
attacks by racist, criminal thugs."

Belfast Lord Mayor Naomi Long paid tribute to citizens who donated food and
blankets to the families.

But she added: "The people inside are very fearful and it is very important that
we try in the next 24 hours to provide them first of all with some rest and
reassurance so that they can take measured decisions.

"This is a very difficult day for Belfast."

Social Development Minister Margaret Ritchie said it was "our duty to help them.

I will ensure they are provided with temporary accommodation until we can fully
assess their housing needs".

She added: "I have spoken with Dr Mihai Delcea, the Romanian General Consul in
London and he has agreed to an urgent meeting with me.

"I utterly condemn this spate of racist attacks on these Romanian families.
Their plight has been projected all over the world for everyone to see and it is
unacceptable in this day and age."

City Councillor Frank McCoubrey said the people responsible should be handed
over to the police.

He added: "In 48 hours the image of this city has been dragged through the
gutter.

"But I just hope the reaction of local people and of politicians can do
something to repair that damage.

"Over the years thousands of people have left this city to live in other parts
of the world and I would hate to think any of them have suffered in the way
these people have suffered."

Cops blasted for 'slowness to respond' POLICE yesterday rejected claims they
were slow to respond to the spate of racist attacks during the week.

South Belfast Alliance MLA Anna Lo had said: "The police were slow to
react...the families said they called the police but they arrived late, they
were no good to them then."

PSNI Superintendent Chris Noble said: "There are people out there who know who
was involved in the initial attacks."

He also dampened speculation loyalist paramilitaries might have been behind the
attacks.I want to go home because I have here two kids and I want my kids to be
safe MARIA

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRITICISM Anna Lo, MLA SUPPORT Belfast shows its true reaction to
racist violence DIFFICULT DAY Naomi Long STRESS Woman and child get police
escort TENSE TIMES Strain takes its toll on Maria, who spoke of group's plight,
in Belfast yesterday VULNERABLE Children were also forced out SANCTUARY Families
leave church for refuge

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             June 18, 2009 Thursday

World - Shooting of guard marks escalation in terror attacks

LENGTH: 171 words


Gunmen shot dead a police officer guarding a witness in central Athens yesterday
morning.

Police spokesman Panagiotis Stathis said that three men fired between 15 and 20
shots at the officer, who had just taken over the morning shift of guard duty
outside the home of a key witness in a trial involving former members of the
defunct ultra-left Revolutionary Popular Struggle group (ELA).

It was the first targeted killing attributed to domestic terrorism in years.

Greek ultra-left militants have stepped up attacks, particularly against police
targets, since the country was roiled by massive riots in December triggered by
the fatal police shooting of a teenager.

But most of the attacks have been late-night bombings that have caused no
injuries.

The ELA developed out of the mass opposition to the Western-backed military
junta that ruled Greece from 1967 to 1974.

Before disbanding in 1995, the ELA was blamed for killing a police officer and a
Supreme Court prosecutor, as well as scores of bombings aimed mostly at US
targets.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                             June 18, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

SEX ATTACK TERROR ON CYCLE TRACK;
Public need to help us find this man: DI Mark McGowan

BYLINE: KENNETH SPEIRS

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 133 words


POLICE are hunting a brutal sex beast after a woman was seriously assaulted in a
horror attack on a cycle track in Paisley.

And last night the man leading the hunt appealed to the public to help his
officers track down the man who put the terrified 33-year-old victim through a
"terrible" ordeal in broad daylight on Tuesday afternoon.

Detective Inspector Mark McGowan said: "I cannot stress enough how much we need
the public's assistance here and I would appeal to cyclists, runners and dog
walkers who know this area and were there at the time of the incident to get in
touch - you may have seen or heard something important, which could lead us to
finding the attacker."

And he added: "The woman who was attacked was Japanese and this may help jog
peoples' memories."

FULL STORY: PAGE THREE

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CORDONED OFF: A policeman stands guard as forensic investigators
arrive at the scene

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 20, 2009 Saturday

Yemeni minister says terror attacks cause 60m-dollar loss in tourism revenue

LENGTH: 266 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Yemeni newspaper Yemen Observer
website on 19 June

[Report by Zayd al-Alay'ah: "Terrorism Attacks in Yemen Cause Loss in Tourism
Revenues at 60m dollars "]

Yemen is experiencing a serious decrease in tourism revenue amid increased
terrorist attacks which have been detrimental to the number of visitors in the
country affecting employment and tourist investment causing losses estimated at
60m dollars, said Nabil al-Faqih, Minister of Tourism.

Visitors from Europe and Eastern Asia have been warned against coming to Yemen.
Such measures have been taken by their governments because most of the victims
of terrorist attacks in Yemen have come from these parts of the world.

Al-Faqih has said that increased terrorist attacks over the last few years,
including last week's kidnapping of nine foreigners and murder of three female
captives in Yemen's northern Sa'ada province, have had adverse affects on
tourism, with many airlines reducing flights to the country.

The minister's remarks highlight huge losses for Yemeni hotels and tourist
agencies which have been suffering since 2007.

Yemen needs to work very hard to entice visitors back and restore the trust of
foreign tourism companies.

However, the minister said that his ministry will continue to implement it's
national tourism strategy with further promotional campaigns targeting European,
Asian, specifically eastern Asia, and Arab markets.

Internally, the ministry is also doing its utmost to boost the tourist service
base, al-Faqih said.

Source: Yemen Observer website, Sanaa, in English 19 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                             June 20, 2009 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Nigerian is jailed 12 years for sex attacks;
Nine-month reign of terror

BYLINE: BRIAN HORNE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 446 words


THE  son of a prominent Nigerian politician was jailed for 12 years  yesterday
or a nine-month reign of terror against women.

A trial heard how Ekene Anoliefo  raped one teenager and also tried to lure a
14-yearold girl back to his Aberdeen flat for sex by offering her drink,
cigarettes and cannabis.

He approached other women in the streets of the city and assaulted one by
pushing her against a wall when she rejected his advances.

Jailing Anoliefo, 34, at the High Court in Edinburgh, judge Lord Pentland
branded him a dangerous predator.

"The sentence I must impose must reflect the abhorrence society feels towards
people like you who prey on women in this way and are prepared to resort to
violence for their own sexual gratification, " he said.

Anoliefo, handcuffed to two  guards, listened through an interpreter, as defence
QC Donald MacLeod told how he had brought shame on his wealthy family.

His father is a politician in his local state parliament, said the lawyer, and
had paid for Anoliefo to come to Scotland to study computer technology to
prepare him for a career in the Nigerian oil industry. His career hopes were now
in ruins.

Mr MacLeod also told the court that Anoliefo still maintained he was innocent,
although a jury had found him guilty of rape, assault and six breaches of the
peace committed between November 2007 and July last year.

The trial heard how, last July 13, Anoliefo stopped his car, pretending to help
a 19-yearold girl. But once she was in the vehicle he refused to let her leave
and drove her to his flat in Powis Place.

There the terrified woman was forced to watch porn which Anoliefo downloaded
before he   raped her.

His victim suffered  lasting psychological damage as a result, the court heard.

On March 15 last year, a 14-year-old schoolgirl was in Charles Street, Aberdeen,
when Anoliefo came up to her and began making "inappropriate sexual remarks".

He tried to kiss her and touch her leg and asked for her phone number. The
frightened girl was offered alcohol and drugs if she would go home with him.

Lord Pentland told Anoliefo: "It is clear to me your menacing behaviour caused
obvious fear, alarm and distress to your victims, to all of whom your were a
complete stranger.

"You clear intention seems to have been to lure your victims back to your house
in order to have sex with you."

The women's good sense, and in one case the help of a passer-by had saved them,
the judge noted. But the 19-yearold girl had been subjected to a "cruel and
degrading rape".

The judge continued: "You are, in my view, a dangerous predator who has not the
slightest respect for women."

Anoliefo was also ordered to  be deported at the end of his sentence.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GH


                      Copyright 2009 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 20, 2009 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

COP DIES IN TERROR BLAST;
ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 76 words


AN anti-terror policeman was killed in a bomb attack by Basque separatist group
ETA yesterday.

Chief Insp Eduardo Pueyes Garcia, 49, died instantly after turning on his car's
ignition in an open-air car park.

Garcia, from Bilbao, was a leading member of the force's anti-terrorist squad.

It is believed the boobytrap killing was in retaliation for a string of recent
arrests in northern Spain.

The murder was the first this year by ETA who want Basque independence.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 21, 2009 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Birport attack sparks anti"terror expansion

BYLINE: By Paula Murray

SECTION: NEWS; 21

LENGTH: 366  words


SCOTLAND'S counter-terrorism police force has been expanded in a bid to thwart
potential threats just weeks ahead of the second anniversary of the Glasgow
Airport bomb attack.

Justice Secretary Kenny MacAskill unveiled the new posts yesterday as part of
the Scottish Government's counter-terror strategy.

More than 50 new posts, including intelligence analysts and security advisers,
have been created to add to the 100 officers already in place.

Security experts w elcomed the move, saying the failed suicide attack in 2007
shows Scotland is a potential target for the likes of Al Qaeda.

David Capitanchik, of Aberdeen's Robert Gordon University, said: "The UK
Government spends a lot of money on counter-terrorism, and the Scottish
Government must do so also to ensure Scotland is as well protected as the rest
of the UK.

"People have to realise and accept we are not exempt from a potential terrorism
attack."

While national security is reserved to Westminster, Holyrood can work with the
Association of Chief Police Officers in Scotland (ACPOS) to deter potential
threats. The GBP 1.75million additional funding will help police investigate
those who support or become involved in terrorist activity while allowing
officers to work with communities to raise awareness and tackle issues around
terrorism and violent extremism.

Mr MacAskill said:

"The Glasgow Airport attack showed Scotland is not immune from that threat, and
that is why we all need to work together to reduce the possibility of another
terrorist attack in this country.

"These additional counter-terrorism officers will help to make our country more
secure and allow the police to work with communities to raise awareness of
terrorism and related issues to make Scotland a safer place."

Assistant Chief Constable Allan Burnett, the ACPOS co-ordinator for
counter-terrorism, said: "ACPOS welcomes the additional resources being made
available to make our communities safer."

It is almost two years since the failed bomb attack at Glasgow Airport when two
men drove a Jeep into the front of the terminal building. Kafeel Ahmed died of
his injuries weeks later while Bilal Abdullah was arrested and was sentenced to
life in prison last year.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANNIVERSARY: The Jeep blazes at Glasgow Airport two years ago

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              June 22, 2009 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

JORDAN CLUB ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 43 words


PARTY animal Jordan has been viciously attacked in a club after becoming a
national hate figure.

She was left reeling when angry revellers on Ibiza clashed with the
mum-of-three, screaming: "We love Pete!"

One onlooker said: "Jordan looked absolutely terrified."

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              June 22, 2009 Monday

EX-YARD TERROR BOSS ATTACKS CHAOS OF WHITEHALL COMMITTEE AFTER 7/7

LENGTH: 390 words


JUSTIN DAVENPORT CRIME CORRESPONDENT

THE Government crisis committee that deals with events from flu epidemics to
terror attacks was condemned today as a "nonsensical system" by a former head of
police counter-terrorism.

Andy Hayman, who was head of Scotland Yard's specialist operations until he
resigned in 2007, said the Cobra committee dragged people away from their real
jobs when dealing with a crisis.

Mr Hayman, who was head of counter terror operations during the 7/7 bombings in
2005, gives details of Cobra in his book The Terrorist Hunters.

Mr Hayman is particularly critical of the shambolic operations of the committee,
which he revealed meets in a fortified cellar beneath Whitehall.

Senior officials who are dealing with the immediate aftermath of a major event
are suddenly dragged into a meeting with politicians, he says. "There's a bomb
attack and all hell breaks loose. Everyone scrambles ‹ emergency services,
police, intelligence agencies, Government departments ‹ and rushes around trying
to deal with it. But within an hour we're pulled off the job and summoned to
Cobra."

He says the meeting room is stuffy and often senior officials wander lost
beneath Whitehall trying to find it.

He adds: "Of course a meeting should be called to co-ordinate the response, and
the role of senior people is to detach themselves from the detail and plan
ahead. But in my experience, Cobra fails to do that. The first time I attended,
I was in awe. There were more knights there than at King Arthur's round table."
He says politicians are often plunged into meetings on issues they know little
about. Speaking about the 7/7 attack he says: "Take Alistair Darling, who was
then Transport Secretary. He was on my case all the time, telling me the
Underground needed to be reopened. And I kept asking: OEDo you want me to secure
the crime scenes and get the evidence to prosecute the terrorists, or do you
want me to get the traffic moving?'"

Speaking in the Times to publicise his book he said: "Sometimes the meetings
worked but more often they didn't. People would jockey for position in front of
influential ministers, squabbling over places at the table. At times Cobra
appeared to be little more than a stage for those looking to impress."

Mr Hayman calls for Cobra to be replaced with a committee made up solely of
operational officials.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright  2009    Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  London Lite

                              June 22, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cobra's pointless says former Met anti-terror boss;
7/7 OFFICER ATTACKS CHAOS AT WHITEHALL CRISIS COMMITTEE

BYLINE: GEORGINA LITTELJOHN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 266 words


THE Government crisis committee to deal with events from flu epidemics to terror
attacks was condemned today as a "nonsensical system" by a former head of police
counter-terrorism.

Andy Hayman, who headed up Scotland Yard's specialist operations until 2007,
said the Cobra committee dragged people away from real jobs in a crisis.

Mr Hayman, who sat on Cobra after the 7/7 terror attacks on London transport in
2005, claims senior officials are dragged in with politicians straight after a
major event such as a bomb when "all hell is breaking loose". He said: "Everyone
scrambles - emergency services, police, intelligence agencies - and rushes
around to deal with it. But within an hour we're pulled off the job and summoned
to Cobra." He recalled: "The first time I attended, I was in awe.

There were more knights than Arthur's Round Table." However, he says the reality
is a stuffy room where no one can turn on the air conditioning, with officials
lost trying to find it. He added: "Of course a meeting should coordinate the
response. But in my experience, Cobra fails to do that." Mr Hayman instead wants
a committee made up solely of operational officials.

SIR IAN BLAIR stunned senior officials by going "off-piste" in a press
conference over the Stockwell shooting, said Mr Hayman. In an extract from his
memoirs, he said he "nearly fell off his chair" when the former Met Commissioner
said in July 2005 that the shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes was an
antiterrorist operation. Mr Hayman said: "This was news to me. Even if that was
known, there was no way we would have shared it... so soon."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police terror expert: Hayman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LOL


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                            June 24, 2009 Wednesday

Pet owner and his dog injured by bull terrier in savage street attack;
A dog owner has spoken of his terror after his pet boxer dog was savaged by a
Staffordshire bull terrier in the city centre.

BYLINE: LIZ WEBB

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 363 words


David Warr, 44, was walking his dog Charlie when it was brutally attacked by the
bull terrier, which was not on a lead, on a pathway near Fore Street.

Mr Warr was bitten on the hand by the dog as he tried to protect his
two-year-old boxer  who was being attacked and dragged around.

The terrier sunk its teeth into Charlie's back legs and would not let go.

The dog's owner, a woman with a young child aged around six, was also bitten on
the arm in the attack as she hit and kicked it to get the dog to stop.

Mr Warr was left cradling his dog with blood all over the ground after the
terrier eventually gave up and fled. The owner ran after it with blood pouring
from her arm but never returned.

Mr Warr, who was visiting friends in Exeter, said: "The dog was going barmy. I
have never seen anything like it. The owner was screaming at it trying to get
her dog off of mine. I was hysterical. I thought Charlie was going to end up
dead. This dog was savage."

Mr Warr said the bull terrier attacked Charlie, then his owner, and then him
before turning on Charlie again.

"Charlie has teeth marks where the dog ripped his back leg open," he said.

"I have six big bite marks on my fingers. She was hitting and kicking the dog
and eventually got it off Charlie by whacking it around the head and then it
attacked her.

"The child was screaming," he said.

The police were called and Mr Warr was treated by paramedics after suffering an
angina attack because of the attack. He was also given antibiotics for the bite
and Charlie was taken to see a vet. Police looked around the area to try to find
the dog and woman.

"Charlie is a male dog and he is as docile as they come and so soft it's
untrue," he said.

"He is lucky the dog did not go for his throat or break his legs. I told her I
would wait by a shop but she did not return.

"The dog should be put down. It has attacked two people and another dog. It was
lucky it was not a little child. It should have been on a lead and she should be
taken to court."

Mr Warr has to return to the vets to see if Charlie needs an operation.

The attack happened at about 5pm, on Sunday.

Anyone with information should contact police on 08452 777444 quoting
DE/09/6866.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                             June 25, 2009 Thursday

'Dispatches' investigates last year's Mumbai terrorist attacks

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT

LENGTH: 78 words


'Dispatches: Terror in Mumbai', the story of last year's terrorist attack in
Mumbai with exclusive new footage, evidence & interviews. Produced & directed by
award-winning filmmaker Dan Reed, the film tells the story of what happened when
10 gunmen held one of the world's busiest cities hostage; killing & wounding
100s of people while holding India's security forces at bay

Start date: 2009-06-30

End date: 2009-06-30

Event URL: http://www.channel4.com

Event time: 21:00 BST

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2009 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      June 25, 2009 Thursday 10:01 AM BST

MINISTERS WARN OF TERRORISTS' POTENTIAL CYBER ATTACKS

BYLINE: Jack Doyle, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1041 words


Al Qaida is intent on using the internet to launch a cyber-warfare campaign
against the UK, ministers revealed today.

Terrorist groups, which already use the internet for recruitment, propaganda and
communication purposes, want to turn it into a dangerous weapon.

Security Minister Lord West issued the warning as he published the Government's
new Cyber Security Strategy aimed at heading off online threats.

As well as potential cyber-attacks from terrorists, the UK faces a real and
growing threat from foreign governments such as China and Russia, and from
organised criminal gangs, he said.

Targets include key businesses, the national power grid, financial markets and
Whitehall departments.

As part of attempts to beef up defences, a new Office for Cyber Security will be
set up to co-ordinate Government policy.

Another new development will see the creation of a ``cyber-forensics'' team
based at GCHQ, the Government's eavesdropping centre in Cheltenham,
Gloucestershire.

The Cyber Security Operations Centre will constantly monitor, analyse and
counter cyber attacks as they happen.

Lord West said the terrorists' capability to launch attacks was something he
believed ``will develop'' in future.

``We know terrorists use the internet for radicalisation and things like that at
the moment, but there is a fear they will move down that path (of cyber
attacks).

``As their ability to use the web and the net grows, there will be more
opportunity for these attacks.

He confirmed that the UK Government has already faced cyber attacks from foreign
states such as Russia and China.

But he denied that hackers had successfully broken into Government systems and
stolen secret information.

He also said he could not deny that the Government has its own online attack
capability, but he refused to say whether it had ever been used.

``It would be silly to say that we don't have any capability to do offensive
work from Cheltenham, and I don't think I should say any more than that.''

Among those the Government has turned to for help on cyber crime are former
illegal hackers, Lord West said.

He said GCHQ had not employed any ``ultra, ultra criminals'' but needed the
expertise of former ``naughty boys'' he said.

``You need youngsters who are deep into this stuff,'' he said.

``If they have been slightly naughty boys, very often they really enjoy stopping
other naughty boys.''

The cyber strategy is part of the updated national security plan which was
published for the first time this year.

It warns of the increased threat to this country as a result of the global
economic meltdown.

Marking the launch of efforts to step up cyber security, the Prime Minister,
Home Secretary and Security Minister visited a London consultancy dedicated to
tackling the threat.

Gordon Brown, Alan Johnson and Lord West visited the ``nerve centre'' of Detica
to see how the technology is developing.

Executives told the ministers how broadband internet was becoming the ``fourth
utility'' - in addition to gas, water and electricity - and as such needed to be
as free from viruses as a water source - ``clean, safe and secure''.

Mr Brown said: ``I think everybody knows the internet has expanded massively,
information is flowing around the world, citizens are in danger of being victims
of organised crime, there are potentially terrorist attacks on our community, so
we are stepping up this strategic unit to look at cyber security.''

He said cyber crime constituted a significant global industry and British people
needed to be protected from it.

``We must not be the victims of it, and the more we lead the world, as we are
today, in cyber security, the more we can protect the citizens of our country.

``Some people are using organised crime to fund terrorist groups. Some terrorist
groups are using the internet in a wholly exploitative way.

``This is a national strategy for protecting Britain.''

Shadow security minister Baroness Neville-Jones said: ``This action on cyber
security is long overdue.

``But it is impossible to know how significant these announcements are because
we do not know what funding will be made available to enhance our ability to
tackle cyber threats.

``It is also not clear how these new cyber security structures fit into the
existing national security machinery. The Government has missed an opportunity
to review and make sense of very muddled structures.

``Much more effort and resource also needs to be devoted to the growing menace
of cyber crime.

``The need to produce such a substantial update to the National Security
Strategy is an admission that the Government's first strategy did not actually
set direction for different departments.

``We are also left waiting for a lot of detail on organised crime, maritime
security and energy security.''

Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Tom Brake said: ``This new cyber
security strategy could lead to an extension of the Government's invasive
counter-terrorism powers, which already pose significant threats to our civil
liberties.

``The cyber security strategy uses broad, undefined terms that risk creating
panic among the public and a demand for further Government powers. We must not
retreat into a Cold War mentality.

``It is worrying that ministers have made no indication of how much these
proposals will cost. Too many Government schemes have seen taxpayers' money
being poured into a black hole.

``It is also unfortunate that the Government did not consider this strategy
important enough to give Parliament an opportunity to debate this updated
strategy on the floor of the House.''

Detica's managing director, Martin Sutherland, said: ``While cyberspace brings a
wealth of benefits, our increasing dependence on it leaves us exposed to an
ever-growing level of vulnerability and risk that we need to tackle urgently.

``Detica therefore strongly welcomes this engagement from the UK Government on
its ambitious programme to improve cyber security.

``The programme announced today will require a strong partnership between
Government and industry, as well as extensive international engagement.

``If the commitment is there, and the necessary funding, we believe this
programme will make a substantial difference in ensuring that cyberspace, and
hence the public, becomes safer and more secure.''

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 26, 2009 Friday

Afghan security detains seven on charges of terror attacks in capital

LENGTH: 204 words


Text of report by privately-owned Afghan Ariana TV on 24 June

[Presenter] The Afghan National Security Directorate says it has arrested a
group of seven people on charges of terrorist activities.

A spokesman for the Directorate said in Kabul today that the detainees had been
involved in some suicide bombings in Kabul and some other provinces.

Abdol Fattah Ahmadzai has more details on this:

[Correspondent] Sayed Ansari, the National Security Directorate spokesman, says
that the suspects were arrested after a long investigation. According to the
spokesman, the detainees have confessed to being involved in some of the
incidents. He went on to say that the detainees had organized some suicide
attacks in the capital city and some other provinces. Ansari says that the gang
was equipped by Pakistan.

[Sayed Ansari] I reiterate that the financial and technical support and the
required explosives were provided to the gang from the other side of the border,
from Quetta, Pakistan.

[Correspondent] Mr Ansari has added that they have also seized 650 kg of
explosives, two police uniforms, several handheld transceivers, some electronic
devices and five mobiles from the detainees.

Source: Ariana TV, Kabul, in Dari 1530 gmt 24 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 26, 2009 Friday

Hackers hired to halt attacks;
on Britain by cyber terrorists

BYLINE: Duncan Gardham Security Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 341  words


BRITAIN is to build new defences against a "cyber cold war'' being launched from
China and Russia, amid fears that hackers could shut down the computer systems
that control power stations, water companies, air traffic, government and
financial markets.

"Cyber spies'' from the former communist bloc have been hacking into government
and industry computers in an attempt to gain military and technological secrets,
and are now targeting key elements of the national infrastructure.

The security services fear the technology could also be used by al-Qaeda.

The Government has announced it is launching a new Cyber Security Operations
Centre to counter the threat, bringing together the expertise of MI5, the GCHQ
listening centre in Cheltenham and the Metropolitan Police.

Lord West, the Security Minister, said there was a danger that hackers would get
into the national grid and "switch things off'' and that terrorists would use
the internet for cyber attacks.

But Britain was developing the capability to strike back by recruiting former
hackers.

"It would be silly to say that we don't have any capability to do offensive work
from Cheltenham,'' he said, adding: "You need youngsters who are deep into this
stuff. If they have been slightly naughty boys, very often they enjoy stopping
other naughty boys.'' Lord West said mobile phones used by government workers
were particularly vulnerable to hackers. He added: "In the age of quill pens you
had to knock someone out to steal their documents, now it can all be done by
computer.''

The cyber security strategy is part of an updated national security strategy,
which also looks at a range of threats including war, terrorism, pandemics and
natural disasters.

Launching the new strategy, the Prime Minister said cyber security was the
21st-century equivalent of securing the seas in the 19th century.

Officials say they are not aware of any successful attacks against government
computer systems but point out that industry is more vulnerable. British Telecom
is reported to receive 1,000 attacks a day.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              June 26, 2009 Friday
                                 Fourth Edition

Humble master;
He's the highest run-scorer in international cricket - and the batsman who has
made more centuries against Australia than any other. In this rare interview,
Sachin Tendulkar speaks about the terror attacks in Mumbai, his 20-year career
and England's chances in the Ashes THE BRIAN VINER INTERVIEW

BYLINE: BRIAN VINER

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 1856 words


It is hard to assess a fellow's character in an interview lasting 40 minutes,
which is the amount of time I have been allotted with Sachin Tendulkar - and
properly privileged I feel to get it, too. But I am afforded a useful insight
before the interview even starts. We are in the Opus store near Covent Garden,
where Tendulkar has been the subject of an interminable photo shoot as part of
the launch of his latest website. On the pavement outside there is an
ever-burgeoning group of Indians pressing their noses to the glass, astounded to
find that their country's supreme sporting mega-star is inside. As soon as the
shoot is over, Tendulkar is ushered over to meet me. But with a shy smile he
apologises and instead steps out of the shop door to meet the people who would
lie in the middle of a motorway for him. Only once he has chatted to them all
does he return to my waiting tape-recorder. He is famously diddy, only 5ft 5in
tall. But a giant of a man, nonetheless.

Also, he happens to have scored more Test centuries against Australia than
anyone, so with the Ashes series imminent it seems relevant to ask him the
secret of mastering the Aussie attack, but first things first. He is 36 now, and
has been playing first-class cricket for more than 20 years. Is he beginning to
contemplate life after cricket?

"To be honest I haven't thought about that at all," he says. "I'm still enjoying
it, my body is holding up nicely, and I have no plans to stop playing. When I
do, I will do something connected with cricket. That's what I'm good at." Good
at! It is like saying that Helen of Troy was a bit of a looker. Tendulkar has
scored more Test runs than anyone in the history of the game, 12,773 of them at
an average of 54.58. He also has a record number of one-day international runs,
16,684 at 44.37. Nobody has scored more Test centuries (42). He has even claimed
almost 200 Test and one-day wickets. Moreover, when Sir Donald Bradman was
persuaded in 1998 to pick his all-time XI, the Little Master from Mumbai was the
only modern inclusion. But what will he do with all that talent when the curtain
finally falls on one of the epic cricket careers? Will he coach? "I don't know,"
he says flatly. "This is not the right time to think about it."

Perhaps, I venture provocatively, coaching won't come naturally. He wouldn't be
the first sporting colossus to struggle to refine in others what to himself has
always come instinctively. How easy, for example, does he find it to instruct
his young son in the batting arts?

He smiles. "He is only nine and he just wants to smash the ball. I encourage him
to do that, because above all he should love the sport. If he loves it, the rest
will follow. I have not forced him into it. We hardly discussed cricket for the
first four or five years of his life, but it seems to be in his heart. It is
hard to judge how good he will be. Cricket is not just about physical ability,
it is also about mental ability, adapting to different conditions and
situations. It is hard to judge the mentality of a boy of nine."

Indeed, yet Tendulkar was only five years older, a 14-year-old schoolboy, when
Dilip Vengsarkar, then the Indian captain, judged him ready to play first-class
cricket. Of his subsequent 208 centuries in all forms of the game, can he single
out one that has given him more satisfaction than any other?

"I think the one against England in Chennai last year," he says, without
hesitation. "After what happened in Mumbai [the terrorist attacks], the mood of
the entire nation was low. Something was needed to put smiles on people's faces.
I am by no means suggesting that the people who lost near and dear ones could
forget their terrible loss, but if we as a team were able to make them smile for
just a couple of seconds, that was an achievement. And thanks to the England
cricket team who came back very graciously and played against us. You know,
cricket in India brings the entire nation together, from the poorest child to a
billionaire. We are in a position to make everyone happy, which is very special
for me and the whole cricketing fraternity."

The excited throng of people still outside the shop rather proves his point, and
this is Covent Garden, not Mumbai. What must it be like to be Sachin Tendulkar
in India? I ask the only man who knows. "It is difficult to move out and about,
to do normal things, like going for a walk in the park. I sometimes take my car
(of his extensive collection, his current favourite is a Lamborghini) out at
five o'clock in the morning, and drive 25 miles. It is nice to be alone. But I
also enjoy the attention. There are pros and cons, it's a package deal. My life
has been fantastic and I have always had huge support from my family. My father
was not a huge follower of cricket, but he was 100 per cent behind me every step
of the way."

The late Professor Ramesh Tendulkar, a novelist and poet, must nevertheless have
been rather mystified by his boy's prodigious cricketing talent, which flowered
extraordinarily early. "You asked about important innings," Tendulkar continues,
"and I would say that there were a couple in my schooldays that changed my life.
In the semi-final of an Under-17s tournament I scored 326 not out, which is when
everyone in Mumbai took notice of me. I then scored 346 not out in the final,
with Dilip Vengsarkar and Sunil Gavaskar watching. I was only 14 at the time,
but Vengsarkar wanted me to join the Mumbai first-class team, which contained
nine Test players. He had to be sure I was ready. So he invited me to play in
the India nets. The Indian team had a camp in Mumbai, and he made Kapil Dev and
all these guys bowl at me in the nets. After that session he gave a green signal
to the selectors. He said 'I think he's ready, you can pick him'. And in my
first season I scored the highest number of runs for the team. There are three
trophies in India, and in all three I scored a century on my debut, so my
performances were very good, but also the timing was perfect."

Two decades on, there are those who insist that Tendulkar is diminished as a
batsman compared with his glorious youth. I cite one of them, the former
Australian captain Ian Chappell. "If he says that then he's not watched enough
cricket," says Tendulkar, evenly. "There is no player who does not change over
20 years, and that depends on your changing role in the team. When I was 17
there were others to take the kind of responsibility I'm taking now, and at 25 I
was playing differently again. One has to be wise and mature enough to
understand this changing role. I am quite happy with where I am now, and I think
my performances in the last couple of years have proven the so-called experts
wrong. I think my reflexes are the same as ever. But I am a feel player. If I
feel good I do not practise much. Before the 2003 World Cup (when he was player
of the tournament) I had only one net session. But before the last New Zealand
tour I hit thousands and thousands of balls in the nets, to give me confidence."

That confidence has rarely flagged against Australia down the years, despite or
more likely because of the Aussie status, for most of his career, as the
pre-eminent cricketing power. On India's 1991-92 tour of Australia he marred
Shane Warne's Test debut with an unbeaten 148 in Sydney, and hammered another
century in Perth, causing the vulgar but undoubtedly prescient comment from Merv
Hughes to Allan Border that "this little prick's going to end up with more runs
than you, AB."

It delights him, he says, to have been such a thorn in Aussie sides. "There are
times when I have been very attacking against them, times when I have been
defensive." And the $64,000 question: who does he fancy for the Ashes? His smile
gives nothing away. After all, he's a multi-millionaire, he doesn't need
$64,000. "It's a tough call. I'm really looking forward to it. Pietersen is
obviously a very important player for England but I think Flintoff (below) is
just as important. As a bowler he's a very handy customer."

A handy customer who has given him much trouble? He purses his lips. "There have
been many such bowlers, so many guys from Imran Khan, Richard Hadlee, Wasim
Akram, Waqar Younis, Allan Donald, Walsh and Ambrose, Malcolm Marshall, Shane
Warne, Muralitharan ... but the ones who got me most were not the strike bowlers
but the irregular bowlers. Hansie Cronje got me out more than Allan Donald and
Shaun Pollock."

So much for the bowlers. Who have been the batsmen who most inspired the master
of the art? "Viv Richards and Sunil Gavaskar were my heroes growing up. I liked
Gavaskar for the way he applied himself, and Richards for his aggression. He was
just super, and his body balance was special. I always wanted to be a mixture of
both of those guys. And I also think that Brian Lara is a class apart."

Not, though, a class apart from himself, indeed even Lara once opined that he
was only mortal, whereas Tendulkar was a genius. Sir Donald Bradman didn't quite
go that far, but he did say, and Lady Bradman reportedly agreed, that the little
man from Mumbai reminded him more than anyone of himself. To have made the Don's
all-time XI must have been a notable thrill?

"Oh, it was. And me and Shane Warne got to meet him on his 90th birthday, just
the two of us. We sat with him for 45 minutes or so, and he said he thought the
standard of cricket, the field settings and planning, are much better today. We
asked him what he would have averaged today, and he said 70. Naturally I asked
why 70, why not 99? And he said '70 is not bad for a 90-year-old man'. Tendulkar
chuckles. "So he had great humour."

And is it coincidence that both he and Bradman, perhaps the two greatest batsmen
in history, shared a diminutive stature? "I don't know. Perhaps. The centre of
gravity is lower and that increases the balance. Batting is about balance."

In more ways than one it is hard to imagine a more balanced man than Sachin
Tendulkar

Numbers game

Sachin's statistics

1973

Born on 24 April in Bombay. His father was a novelist and named him after his
favourite musical director Sachin Dev Burman.

664

In a schoolboy match in 1988 he shared this unbroken partnership with team-mate
Vinod Kambli who also later played for India. This remained a world-record
partnership in any form of cricket until 2006, when it was broken by two
Under-13 batsmen, also in India.

5ft 5in

Tendulkar's height, hence his nickname, 'the Little Master'.

16

Tendulkar's age when he made his Test debut, against Pakistan in 1989. He made
15 runs in the first innings, did not bat in the second, and the match was
drawn.

54.58

His Test average after 159 matches.

12,773

Aggregate Test runs scored - the world's best, ahead of Brian Lara (11,953),
Allan Border (11,174) and Ricky Ponting (10,960).

42

Test centuries, the world's best - ahead of Ponting (37), Sunil Gavaskar and
Brian Lara (both 34). Plus 53 half-centuries. His highest score is 248 not out
against Bangladesh in 2004.

16,684

One-day International runs scored, including 43 centuries - again, both are
world bests.

3 for 10

Best Test bowling figures (against South Africa in 2000), but his average is
51.63.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 28, 2009 Sunday

Indian ministry to regulate media coverage during terror attacks

LENGTH: 411 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 27 June: Information and Broadcasting Ministry [I and B] of India
will regulate the coverage of incidents like Mumbai terror attack and set up a
nodal agency to disseminate "authoritative news" in such cases.

Noting that broadcasters' coverage of Mumbai attacks in November last year
"helped those (attacking us)", Information and Broadcasting Minister Ambika Soni
said "everybody has access to TV channels and if we do put in (a precaution)...,
this would be more of a help so that it (the footage) would not be detrimental
to national interest...We all felt that certain things in the coverage (of
Mumbai attacks by channels) helped those who were attacking us." "We would be
able to correct you all, correct the information or send a little message that
we have to be careful," she told NDTV [private English-language TV channel]. She
said a nodal agency would also be set up to give correct information. "If there
is another incident of any kind which requires immediate dissemination of
authoritative news, you can access a nodal point. A small nodal group which
would be empowered in that eventuality to access the right information (would be
set up)," the minister said.

Asked whether the nodal agency being proposed by the I and B ministry would stop
or blackout any channel in case its coverage of Mumbai attack-like incident is
found to be going against national interest, Soni said "if that is required to
be said then....this could be an interactive process".

Soni's comments were in stark contrast to her last week's assurance to media
persons that the government has no plans to impose restrictions on the media.
"The prime minister had spoken (on regulation)... and what he said was good that
we don't need to put in place any regulation which in any way will reflect a
desire on the part of anyone to impose any restriction (on media)," she had said
to media persons last week at an informal get-together. The minister had also
told media persons about her meeting with a delegation of News Broadcasters
Association (NBA) that has come up with its own self-regulatory guidelines on
coverage of Mumbai terror attack like incidents. "I met a delegation of News
Broadcasters Association (NBA). They have their own guidelines in place on
self-regulation. That is a good thing and we will cooperate in every way with
them," the minister had said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1502gmt 27 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             June 30, 2009 Tuesday

Chechnya: Killed gunmen believed to be plotting terrorist attack

LENGTH: 178 words


Excerpt from report by Russian Kavkazskiy Uzel website, specializing in news
from the Caucasus, on 30 June

30 June: Chechnya's power-wielding bodies believe that the emir of [the Chechen
town of] Shali, Abubakar Musliyev, killed in a special operation on 29 June, was
preparing to carry out a major terrorist attack. A powerful home-made landmine
ready to be blown up was found in his car.

The Chechen Interior Ministry reports that in the attempt to detain them,
Musliyev and another gunman, who was in the car together with him, put up armed
resistance. Both were killed in the retaliatory fire. The identity of the second
killed gunman remains unknown.

"The bandits were most likely going to carry out a major terrorist attack. A
powerful explosive device consisting of two artillery shells and an oxygen
container ready to explode was found in the Zhiguli-07 car, which they drove," a
source in Chechnya's law-enforcement bodies told Kavkazskiy Uzel.

[Passage omitted: Some other recent incidents in Chechnya]

Source: Kavkaz-uzel.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 30 Jun 09

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 30, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

'Racist' was on cusp of terror attack, jury told

BYLINE: Mark Hughes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 254 words


A MAN arrested for urinating at a train station turned out to be a white
supremacist who was "on the cusp" of launching a terrorist attack against
"non-British" people using bombs disguised as tennis balls, a court heard.

Neil Lewington had developed a bomb factory in his bedroom at the home he shared
with his parents in Reading and aimed to target "those he considered
non-British", jurors were told.

Mr Lewington, who was unemployed, had an "unhealthy interest" in the London nail
bomber David Copeland and the Oklahoma bomber Timothy McVeigh and had "white
supremacist and racist views", the Old Bailey heard.

The 43-year-old was arrested at Lowestoft station, in Suffolk, on 30 October
last year, after a female train guard complained that he had abused her. She
said he had been drinking and smoking on the train and had urinated on the
station platform. Officers searched his hold-all and found bomb-making
paraphernalia. Searches of his home revealed a notebook entitled "Waffen SS UK
members handbook".

The court was told that various former girlfriends of Mr Lewington had become
concerned about his racist views. He had spoken to some about converting tennis
balls into bombs. One said he had told her about his bomb-making and asked her
at which house in her street an Asian family lived.

Brian Altman, for the prosecution, said: "He explained how he could throw a
tennis ball bomb or place it somewhere and then run away." Mr Lewington denies
six terrorism charges and two of possessing explosives. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             June 30, 2009 Tuesday
                                 2 Star Edition

NEO-NAZI BOMBS IN BALL PLOT;
RACIST 'PLANNED TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: STEPHEN MOYES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 237 words


A RACE-HATE extremist was preparing to bomb "non-British" families with shrapnel
packed into tennis balls, an Old Bailey jury heard yesterday.

Neil Lewington, 43, idolised white supremacist terrorists including London nail
bomber David Copeland and Oklahoma mass killer Timothy McVeigh, it is claimed.

The Neo-Nazi allegedly told a girlfriend he could attack an Asian family with
his explosive tennis ball devices.

Lewington kept racist documents including the Waffen SS UK members' handbook
plus notes on explosive devices.

He turned his room at his parents' home into a bomb-making factory, jurors were
told.

His alleged plans came to light after he was reported for urinating on the
platform at Lowestoft train station, Suffolk, last October.

Police who arrested him on suspicion of a public order offence found parts for
two explosive devices, the court heard. Brian Altman QC, prosecuting, said:
"Searches of the house where the defen-Copelandmade dant lived with his parents
in Reading revealed nothing short of a factory for the production of many such
similar devices."

He said police also found evidence showing he "adhered to racist views".

Mr Altman said: "The effect is to prove this man, who had strong if not
fanatical right-wing opinions, was on the cusp of a campaign of terrorism
against those he regarded non-British." Lewington denies preparing for terrorist
acts and possessing explosives. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FACTOR Lewington lived with his parents

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             June 30, 2009 Tuesday

Britain - Supremacist terror attack thwarted by chance

LENGTH: 143 words


A white supremacist arrested by chance at a Suffolk railway station last year
turned out to be "on the cusp" of launching a campaign of terrorism, the Old
Bailey heard yesterday.

Jurors were told that Neil Lewington (pictured above) had developed a bomb
factory in his bedroom at his parents' home and aimed to target those he
considered non-British.

According to the prosecution, he had an "unhealthy interest" in the London nail
bomber David Copeland, the United States Unabomber and Oklahoma bomber Timothy
McVeigh.

Lewington was arrested at Lowestoft station in Suffolk last year after abusing a
female train conductor. He was found to be carrying the component parts of two
viable improvised incendiary devices.

Later searches of his home revealed a notebook entitled Waffen SS UK Members'
Handbook, containing drawings of electronics and chemical mixtures.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 1, 2009 Wednesday

Terror attacks kill over 3,000 in Pakistani tribal areas - report

LENGTH: 271 words


Text of report by Pakistan's private television channel Geo News website on 1
July

Peshawar: Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) secretariat has issued the
report of monetary and human losses done by terrorism and extremism in the
tribal areas.

A 21-page report revealed that more than 2bn dollar damages were done by
terrorism in tribal areas.

Tribal areas suffered most as compared to other parts of the country. More than
3,000 people were killed in tribal areas during terror activities. Bajaur Agency
was the worst-hit area where 600 people were killed. Terrorism claimed 500 lives
in Kurram Agency, South and North Waziristan. The number of people wounded in
terror incident is over 3,000.

According to report, the initial property losses is estimated up to 103m dollars
whereas the losses estimated in economic and social sectors are 119m dollars and
109m dollars respectively.

Extremism takes its toll in agriculture sector also in the form of 188m dollar
losses. Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) expenses estimated 572m dollars.

The report disclosed that militants are equipped with latest weapons whereas in
contrast of this, Khasadar Force [tribal force] have outdated arms insufficient
for retaliatory action against militants.

The personnel of Khasadar and Levies are getting 3,500 rupees' salary per month
while militants are getting 10,000 to 15,000 rupees per month. The report termed
this major inequality as the basic reason of unrest in these areas. An estimated
2bn dollars is needed for reconstruction and rehabilitation of tribal areas, it
added.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 01 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 1, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Gran in dog attack terror;
OAP bitten and pet killed: OAP bitten in dog attack

BYLINE: Steve Bradley

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 404 words


A TERRIFIED grandmother who was bitten by a pack of bull terriers during an
attack in which they killed her pet dog today described the ordeal as "mayhem".

Georgina Hopson, aged 67, who is epileptic, desperately tried to fight the dogs
off and protect her whippet Ben.

She was joined by local residents, passers-by and the rector of a nearby church
after the bull terriers pounced. One said the attack on the dog was "like a pack
of lions savaging the carcass of a zebra".

They couldn't save 11-yearold Ben, a brindle whippet crossbreed, who suffered
smashed ribs and punctured lungs, and who had to be put down by a vet soon after
the incident in Walsall on Sunday.

Today, police were trying to find the woman owner of up to six bull terriers
involved in the attack in Cor-onatioWalk, shortly after 9am. She fled, bleeding
heavily, after apparently being attacked herself as she tried to restrain her
dogs who struck in a quiet cul de sac close to St Matthew's Church.

Today, Mrs Hopson, who lives near to the town centre with her husband, said:
"I'm shaking all the time, and I can't sleep. Every time I shut my eyes I go
over what happened.

"I was hysterical, and in shock. Although it's under control, I'm epileptic, and
I haven't been right since." Mrs Hopson, who was treated in hospital for
treatment to a bite to her wrist, said: "I was standing there waiting for Ben to
finish sniffing in the bushes, when two of the dogs came at him first. "Whether
they could sense his fear, I don't know. One of them bit his back and I
screamed, and the woman came running up followed by a fewmore dogs." She claimed
she was sworn at when she asked the woman to put her dogs back on their lead and
added: "The next thing I knew it was mayhem.

"What I'm frightened of is that this could happen again, and somebody else might
not be so lucky." Local residents say the woman in charge of the dogs had been
seen on several previous occasions letting the bull terriers off their leads.
Colin Hill, who lives opposite the scene of the attack, said: "I have never seen
anything like it in my life. It was like a pack of lions savaging the carcass of
a zebra." Eventually Colin and a number of passers-by managed to pull the bull
terriers away. The woman walking the bull terriers is described as white, in her
30s or 40swith brown hair in a ponytail. Anyone with information should ¦ call
police on 0845 113 5000. OUR SAY: PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Injured: Georgina Hopson was bitten by the pack of dogs. Horror scene:
Georgina Hopson near to St Matthew's Church inWalsall, where the attack took
place.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             July 1, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

Gran in dog bite terror;
Pet killed in attack: OAP bitten in dog attack

BYLINE: Steve Bradley

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 277 words


A TERRIFIED grandmother who was bitten by a pack of bull terriers during an
attack in which they killed her pet dog today described the ordeal as "mayhem".

Georgina Hopson, aged 66, who is epileptic, desperately tried to fight the dogs
off and protect her whippet Ben.

She was joined by local residents, passers-by and the rector of a nearby church
after the attack on the dog was "like a pack of lions savaging the carcass of a
zebra". They couldn't save 11-year-old Ben, a brindle whippet crossbreed, who
suffered smashed ribs and punctured lungs, and who had to be put down by a vet
soon after the incident in Walsall on June 21.

Today, police were trying to find the woman owner of up to six bull terriers
involved in the attack in Coronation Walk, shortly after 9am. She fled, bleeding
heavily, after apparently being attacked herself as she tried to restrain her
dogs who struck in a quiet cul-desac close to St Matthew's Church.

Today, Mrs Hopson, who lives near to the town centre with her husband, said: "I
was hysterical, and in shock. Although it's under control, I'm epileptic, and I
haven't been right since." Mrs Hopson, who was treated in hospital for treatment
to a bite to her wrist, said: "I was standing there waiting for Ben to finish
sniffing in the bushes, when two of the dogs came at him first. "Whether they
could sense his fear, I don't know.

One of them bit his back and I screamed, and the woman came running up followed
by a few more dogs." The woman walking the bull terriers is described as white,
in her 30s or 40s with brown hair in a ponytail. Anyone with information should
call police on 0845 113 5000. OUR SAY: PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Injured: Georgina Hopson. Horror scene: Georgina Hopson near to St
Matthew's Church in Walsall, where the attack took place.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                              July 3, 2009 Friday

Sri Lanka host Pakistan in their first Test cricket encounter since Lahore
terror attack

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 71 words


1st Test match Sri Lanka v Pakistan in Galle.
 In March Sri Lanka's tour of Pakistan was cancelled after the team was subject
to a terrorist attack in Lahore. 7 players & a team official were wounded with 7
other people killed incl the driver of the vehicle carrying match officials,
when armed men attacked a bus taking them to the Gaddafi Stadium

Start date: 2009-07-04

End date: 2009-07-08

Event URL: http://www.srilankacricket.lk/

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2009 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 4, 2009 Saturday

Pakistan TV show discusses economic cost of war on terror, new drone attacks

LENGTH: 1301 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1600 GMT on 3 July relays live regularly
scheduled "Today with Kamran Khan" programme. Noted Pakistani journalist Kamran
Khan reviews, discusses and analyzes major day-to-day developments with
government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts
in Geo TV's flagship program.

Programme: "Today with Kamran Khan"

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Today's programme is being hosted by Geo News Anchor Javed Iqbal because of
Kamran Khan's annual leave.

Segment I

Javed Iqbal says: Army Chief Gen Kayani has said that "Pakistan faces various
kinds of complicated problems, but with the strong support of the nation the
fight against terrorism will be successful." Iqbal adds: addressing the 91st
commissioning parade of naval officers of Pakistan Navy, Kayani stated that
Pakistan is internally faced with a big threat to its stability and security
from the forces of extremism and terrorism, but the Pakistan armed forces are
fully prepared to confront these forces. Iqbal says: addressing the parade,
Kayani stated:

[Begin Kayani recording, in English] We stand committed to global and regional
peace. Pakistan wishes to live in peace and harmony with all its neighbors. We
will not enter into any arms race, but we will maintain balance through a
strategy of minimum credible deterrence. Strong armed forces of Pakistan, ladies
and gentlemen, are guarantors of peace and stability. [end recording]

Segment II

Javed Iqbal says the economic panel of Planning Commission has said that
Pakistan will directly or indirectly spend 10bn dollars in war on terror in
fiscal year 2008-2009 due to which Pakistan's economy will suffer serious
setback. Iqbal adds: the panel says that additional 100 billion rupees will be
spent due to the Swat military operation and Swat's economy has separately
suffered 30 billion rupees losses. Continuing, Iqbal says: the panel says that
other than loss of life, there have been immense economic losses, investment in
Pakistan has reduced, exports have been affected and overall the economic
activity has suffered due to the war on terror.

Javed Iqbal establishes video link in Lahore with Hafiz Pasha, chairman of
economic panel of Planning Commission, and asks him to quantify the economic
losses due to the war on terror. Pasha says direct cost of war is the
expenditure of police and Army, but the impact on the economy of Northwest
Frontier Province is also a very big cost item. Pasha adds: impact of reduced
investment on overall economy is also a very big cost item and the property
damage in terror attacks is also a cost item.

Continuing, Pasha says the estimate is that the cost of war in fiscal year
2007-2008 was between $6 billion to 8bn dollars and, perhaps, the cost in
2008-2009 fiscal year will reach about 10bn dollars. When asked whether the
economic aid promised by the Friends of Pakistan forum [at Tokyo meeting] would
help improve the situation, Pasha says: so far 5.2bn dollars have been committed
for next two years, but this aid would not "//fully compensate//" Pakistan's
costs. Iqbal asks: whether Pakistan needed to launch a "diplomatic offensive" to
highlight it needs in war on terror. Pasha answers: Pakistan's bargaining
position in 2001-2002 when this war against terror was started was very good and
it should have asked for trade concessions from America and Europe and if trade
preferences were given to Pakistan, its economic growth would have found a
support.

Segment III

Javed Iqbal says 13 people have been killed in two missile attacks carried out
by US Drones in South Waziristan. Iqbal adds: according to a report, a suspected
base of militants was attacked where suicide attack training was imparted and
Mufti Noor Wali, close aid of Baitullah Mehsud, was in charge of the base.

Javed Iqbal establishes video link with retired Brigadier Saad Mohammad, former
Pakistan defence attache in Afghanistan and defense analyst, and asked him
whether drone attacks in South Waziristan would further increase pressure on
Baitullah Mehsud as Pakistan military operations are also continuing in his
areas. Mohammad says: earlier America did not pay much attention on Baitullah
Mehsud's group and its drones only targeted Taleban groups of Commander Gul
Bahadur and Commander Maulvi Nazir, but now drones are also attacking Baitullah
Mehsud's group.

Continuing, Mohammad says: but America should carry out an assessment whether
drone attacks are really beneficial and if Afghan insurgency has diminished due
to drone attacks, these attacks are justifiable. Mohammad, however, thinks that
the drone attacks would strengthen anti-American forces in Waziristan and other
tribal areas of Pakistan and will create complications in Pakistan's efforts to
carry out a "decisive" operation against Baitullah Mehsud. Mohammad says: those
groups which were earlier with the Pakistan government, like Gul Bahadur's
group, are terminating the peace agreements due to Drone attacks. Mohammad adds:
Drone attacks are working against Pakistan's strategy to fragment groups
commandeered by Baitullah Mehsud, Gul Bahadur and Maulvi Nazir and if all these
three groups come together, it will create a big problem for Pakistani Army.

Segment IV

Javed Iqbal says the United Nations has once again appealed for international
aid for the persons affected by the military operation in Malakand division.
Iqbal adds: the United Nations says that additional funds are needed to tackle
threat of spread of various diseases with the onset of monsoon and for safe
return of affected persons to their homes.

Javed Iqbal establishes video link in Islamabad with Fawad Hussain, UN special
coordinator for Northwest Frontier Province, and asks him how much additional
funds are needed for providing relief to the affected persons. Hussain says out
of the UN appeal for 543m-dollar aid, only 193m dollars have been received which
will only be enough for next 3 to 4 weeks and after that serious problems will
be faced, especially with the onset of monsoon and the beginning of process of
return of affected persons. Hussain adds: about 53 percent of funding so far has
been by America and other countries response is "very slow" due to the present
financial crunch all over the world. When asked what difficulties other than
lack of funding the UN relief agencies are facing, Hussain says: security
situation in the camps is overarching problem and it is hard to find persons
willing to work in these areas.

[Segment V passage on the efforts to improve the police order 2002 which came
into being through police reforms commission's report omitted]

Segment VI

Javed Iqbal says the Liberhan Commission set up 17 years ago to investigate
demolition of Babri Masjid [mosque] has submitted its report to the Indian
government and it says Bharatiya Janata Party [BJP] Leader L.K. Advani and Sangh
Parivar [BJP and rightwing Hindu groups associated with it] were involved in the
demolition of Babri Masjid.

Javed Iqbal establishes telephonic contact in New Delhi with Nisarul Haq,
political professor at Jamia Millia Islamia [National Islamic University], and
asks him whether there will be any government action on the Liberhan Commission
report or not. Haq says: the report has come after 17 years which practically
ends the relevance of the incident, but because the Commission has found Sangh
Parivar responsible for demolition of Babri Mosque, the government must take
some action on this finding and if the ruling Congress party takes some action,
its standing will improve in the Muslim and other minority communities. When
Iqbal points out that the report has mentioned BJP L.K. Advani's role in the
incident, Haq says: this would adversely affect Advani's political image.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1600gmt 03 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 4, 2009 Saturday

German security agencies said to fear terror attack in run-up to election

LENGTH: 419 words


Text of report by independent weekly German news magazine Der Spiegel on 4 July

[Unattributed report: "Terror Threat: Security Agencies Fear Two-Pronged Attack
by Al-Qa'idah. Warning of 'Domino' Scenario." - Der Spiegel headline. First
paragraph is an introduction.]

Germany's security services are gearing up for a possible Al-Qa'idah terror
attack during the run-up to the Bundestag election, DER SPIEGEL understands.
They fear there could be a two-pronged attack, with several explosive devices
being detonated at around the same time.

Hamburg -The scenarios are modelled on the course taken by the attacks on Madrid
and Bali in 2004 and 2002. Next Thursday [9 July], a special meeting of interior
ministry state secretaries [politically appointed senior civil servants] of the
federal and regional state governments will take place, to coordinate their
preparations for a possible attack by Islamists. DER PIEGEL understands that the
authorities have focused particularly on the scenario of a two-pronged attack,
either involving explosive devices being detonated in several locations at the
same time, or else a first, smaller detonation being followed by a second one at
the same place.

Hence, police officers, fire-fighters, and medical personnel will not proceed in
their entirety to one location on being alerted. Instead, they will divide up,
so as to remain operationally effective in the event of a second detonation. The
scenario has been code-named Domino by the security services.

The German security agencies' precautions are based on a warning from the US
Government, along with their own findings that Al-Qa'idah is planning an attack
during the run-up to the Bundestag election, for the purpose of forcing the
Federal Armed Forces [Bundeswehr] to withdraw from Afghanistan.

Fears of an attack are fostered by unconfirmed information gathered by the
Federal Intelligence Service [BND]. This indicates that 15 Islamists who have
undergone training in the Afghan-Pakistani border region, including methods of
blowing up buildings, have set off for their homelands.

This group allegedly includes six men from Great Britain, Germany, France, and
Italy. Their training was reportedly supervised by Al-Qa'idah chiefs Sheik al
Libi and Abu Bad al Rahman al Nashi.

These leads were received at the end of April. Last week, the BND received a new
tip-off, indicating that the group had now departed Pakistan. However, it
remains unclear how credible this warning is.

Source: Der Spiegel, Hamburg, in German 4 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 4, 2009 Saturday

Iraqi group accuses government of terror attacks on civilians

LENGTH: 149 words


Text of report by Qatari government-funded, pan-Arab news channel Al-Jazeera
satellite TV on 4 July

[Newsreader] Ali al-Nu'aymi, amir of the Islamic Army in Iraq [IAI], has accused
government parties of carrying out operations he dubbed as terrorist against
civilians. In an audio recording attributed to him, Al-Nu'aymi affirmed that the
project of resistance will continue until the last occupation soldier leaves
Iraq.

[Al-Nu'aymi] Certain government parties have carried out terrorist operations
against innocent, safe citizens to undermine the victory of the resistance. We
affirm that the project of resistance will continue until the last soldier of
any occupation force leaves Iraq. In any occupied country, the two sides of the
equation would normally be the occupation and the resistance, and we shall not
deviate [from this path].

Source: Al-Jazeera TV, Doha, in Arabic 1623 gmt 4 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       July 4, 2009 Saturday 5:04 PM BST

VICTIM'S EX-BOYFRIEND MAKES FILM ABOUT TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Liam Creedon, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 311 words


A man whose former girlfriend was killed in the July 7th terrorist attacks in
London will release a film about the effects of terrorism on the fourth
anniversary of her death.

Benedetta Ciaccia, 30, was one of 52 people killed when four bombs exploded in
the capital on the morning of July 7, 2005.

Ms Ciaccia, a business analyst from Rome, was on route to work on the Circle
Line when her carriage was ripped apart near Aldgate station.

Her close friend and former boyfriend Raj Babbra, 32, will release a film about
her life and the effects of terrorism on Tuesday.

Mr Babbra, who works for the government, decided to make the film - Life Without
Benedetta, in order to ``touch people''.

But he said that making the film had made a huge and unexpected impact on his
own grieving process.

Mr Babbra, originally from Leeds explained: ``We were together for five years
and friends for three years after that.

``I'm not a film maker but wanted to do something that would touch people and
would take me out of my comfort zone.''

The film charts Ms Ciaccia's life and includes interviews with her friends,
family, and other people involved in the attacks including survivors and members
of the emergency services.

Mr Babbra added: ``It charts her life story, how we met, how her life was going
and then suddenly on a seemingly normal morning she gets on a tube and
everything is changed forever.

``It was a strange process to make the film, there were times when it was quite
painful.

``I had to put my emotions to one side and ask questions that were very
difficult.

``People were crying their eyes out in front of me during some of these
interviews.''

He said that the film was not just about coping without his former girlfriend
but how people cope with loss.

The film will be released on Italian TV Station RomaUno and on Mr Babbra's
website www.lifewithloss.org on Tuesday July 7.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 5, 2009 Sunday

Indian army inducts indigenous vehicle to detect terror attacks

LENGTH: 446 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 5 July: The Indian army has for the first time inducted a Defence
Research and Development Organisation (DRDO)-built, low-cost vehicle to detect
attacks on the country using nuclear, biological and chemical (NBC) weapons.

The indigenous vehicle, developed by DRDO's five labs, will now be used in
reconnaissance missions to detect nuclear radiations, and chemical or biological
agents in the environment inside the country's territory, DRDO officials said
here Sunday [5 July].

Based on a BMP-IIK Infantry Fighting Vehicle chassis, the vehicle would cost the
Indian defence establishment a fourth of that of the imported varieties, saving
the country's precious foreign exchange, the officials said without giving
details.

The BMP-IIK, which has a cross-country capability and adequate shield for the
crew members, was fitted with nuclear, chemical, biological, meteorological and
positional sensors for monitoring any contamination.

The vehicle would be used for demarcating the contaminated zones with a
flag-marking system and samples of soil and water collected using an in-built
scooping device.

It could also display and store NBC contamination data in its control console
and transmit it to the Army's Command Headquarters on request through
Communication Link Controller and Star-V radio set.

Troops on the vehicle could also perform personal monitoring of the
contamination using various nuclear and chemical monitors in dismount-mode.

NBC hazardous zone could be predicted by personnel on board the vehicle using
the software available for the purpose.

"The data transmitted by the vehicle after a reconnaissance mission can be used
by the Command Control Centre for further planning for management of any NBC
eventuality," the DRDO officials said.

The Army has placed orders for eight limited series production of the NBC
Reconnaissance Vehicle, which were at present under production at the ordnance
factory at Medak and Pune-based BEL factory by involving private sector
industries in the project, officials said.

The first of these NBC recce vehicles was handed over to Army on June 27 this
year in the presence of Engineer-in-Chief Lt Gen Gautam Dutt, DRDO chief M
Natrajan, DRDO chief controller D Banerjee, 12 Corps Commander Lt Gen A M Verma.

In addition to these specialised vehicles, the DRDO has also developed 60 other
projects specifically for NBC defence and have been introduced into the armed
forces, officials said.

"India is now almost self-reliant for equipment and products relating to the
strategic area of NBC protection," the officials added.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0559gmt 05 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 6, 2009 Monday

Police fear far-right terror attack

LENGTH: 812 words

ABSTRACT

Counter-terrorism command warns over threat of 'spectacular' neo-Nazi attack
intended to stoke racial tensions

FULL TEXT

Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism command fears the extreme right will stage a
deadly terrorist attack in Britain to try to stoke racial tensions, the Guardian
has learned.

Senior officers fear the attack will be a "spectacular" that is designed to kill
people. The counter-terrorism unit has moved officers to beef up its monitoring
of the extreme right's potential to stage attacks.

Commander Shaun Sawyer told a meeting of British Muslims concerned about the
danger posed to their communities that police were responding to the growing
threat.

Sawyer said of the far right: "I fear that they will have a spectacular ... They
will carry out an attack that will lead to a loss of life or injury to a
community somewhere. They're not choosy about which community."

He said the aim of any attack would be to cause a "breakdown in community
cohesion".

Sawyer revealed that the Met commissioner, Sir Paul Stephenson, had asked the
counter-terrorism command, SO15, to examine what the economic downturn would
mean for far-right violence. The assessment concluded that it would increase the
possibility.

Sawyer told the meeting last Wednesday that more of his officers needed to be
deployed to try to thwart neo-Nazi-inspired violence. He said the terrorist
threat posed by al-Qaida remained the unit's priority, but said of its far-right
section: "It is a small desk ... we need to grow that unit."

Sources have told the Guardian that while they believe the neo-Nazi terrorist
threat has grown, they have no specific intelligence of an attack.

"There is an increased possibility of violence from the far right. There is a
trend," said one senior source, adding that the ideology of the violent right
was driven by "people who don't like immigration, people who don't like Islam.
We're seeing a resurgence of anti-semitism as well."

Similar warnings about the terror threat of the far right have been issued in
America recently. In April, an internal report drawn up by the US department of
homeland security  fuelled by the recession and hostility over the election of
the first black president. The report said threats from white supremacist and
violent anti-government groups had been largely rhetorical so far, but a
prolonged economic downturn could create a fertile recruiting environment for
rightwing extremists.

It is a decade since an extreme rightwing terrorist used bombs to claim lives in
Britain. In 1999,  bombed three targets in London in a fortnight. His strike
against a gay pub in Soho, London, killed three people and left scores injured.
It followed attacks against the Muslim community in Brick Lane, east London, and
the bombing of a market in Brixton, south London.

The senior source said since Copeland's bombing campaign, community tensions had
worsened between British Muslims and other groups. "When Copeland attacked we
did not have the religious tensions with the Muslim community. What kind of
schism would a Copeland-type event cause now?"

British Muslims have been a particular target of neo-Nazi propaganda, and groups
representing them say they have felt increasingly vulnerable after the  in July
2005.

The threat the far right poses to Britain's Jewish communities is monitored by
the , which says attempted terrorist violence by neo-Nazis in Britain has
increased in the past few years. The CST says nine white men have been
"convicted of offences involving explosives, terrorist plots, violent campaigns
or threats to carry them out". One of them, Martyn Gilleard, was convicted last
year of three terrorism offences and jailed for 16 years. The self-confessed fan
of Nazi Germany had kept nail bombs under a bed at his home in Goole, east
Yorkshire.

David Rich, of the CST, said: "The violent fringes of the far right have shown a
desire and intention to carry out terrorist violence against minorities in the
UK. The last five years has seen an increase in terrorist cases involving the
far right, more than before David Copeland."

Most of those convicted are believed not to have been part of a group. Opinion
among those tracking the violent far right differs. Some believe neo-Nazi
terrorists are acting outside networks, making it harder for them to be caught
and investigated.

Rich said: "There's no one directing people, it's a mindset" ? a reference to
the easy availability of extremist rightwing material and information about
making homemade bombs.

The veteran anti-fascist campaigner Gerry Gable, of the group Searchlight,
praised police efforts to tackle neo-Nazi terrorism but warned the threat
remained: "They believe that violence begets violence. They hope it will cause a
backlash."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 6, 2009 Monday 8:37 PM BST

POLICE 'FEAR DEADLY RIGHT-WING TERROR ATTACK'

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood, Press Association Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 396 words


Counter-terrorism chiefs fear right-wing extremists are plotting a murderous
terrorist attack to fuel racial tension, it emerged tonight.

Senior officers have increased their surveillance of suspected conspirators to
monitor their ability to carry out a deadly attack.

The details emerged at a meeting of the Muslim Safety Forum, which advises the
Metropolitan Police on race issues.

Commander Shaun Sawyer, of the force's specialist operations wing, told members
the police are responding to a growing threat, The Guardian reported.

He said: ``I fear that they will have a spectacular ... They will carry out an
attack that will lead to a loss of life or injury to a community somewhere.
They're not choosy about which community.''

Mr Sawyer added that al Qaida-inspired terror remains the top priority of his
officers, but more resources are needed to counter neo-Nazis.

His comments came after Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson asked officers to
examine what effect the recession could have on far-right violence.

The news mirrors similar warnings of the threat from far-right sympathisers
issued in America in recent months.

It is more than 10 years since neo-Nazi nail bomber David Copeland attacked
three targets in London in 1999. Three people died at the Admiral Duncan gay pub
in Soho.

Copeland also targeted the Muslim community in Brick Lane, east London, and a
supermarket in Brixton, south London.

Mark Gardner, of the Community Security Trust , which monitors violence against
Jews, said there has been a surge in right-wing incidents.

He said: ``Ten years after the Nazi nail bombings in London, we are seeing
increasing numbers of neo-Nazis being arrested in their attempts to start some
kind of so-called race war.

``It is the Muslim community that appears to be most targeted, but all of
society is at risk, and we are in regular discussion with police about the
problem.

``Worse still, the recent electoral successes for the BNP may cause some
would-be terrorists to be further emboldened in their actions.''

Last year neo-Nazi Martyn Gilleard was convicted of three terrorism offences and
jailed for 16 years.

Officers found machetes, swords, bullets, gunpowder, racist literature and four
home-made nail bombs stashed under his bed at his home in Goole, east Yorkshire.

No one at the Muslim Safety Forum was available for comment. The Metropolitan
Police declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                              July 7, 2009 Tuesday

SECURITY SERVICE CHIEFS WILL FACE INQUIRY INTO 7/7 AND OTHER TERROR ATTACKS

LENGTH: 391 words


NICHOLAS CECIL

The most far-ranging parliamentary inquiry into the 7 July bombings and other
terrorist incidents in Britain was launched by MPs today.

MI5 and MI6 chiefs, as well as terrorism experts, will be asked to give evidence
to the Commons home affairs committee.

It came as MPs said the Tube remains "extremely vulnerable" to attack and warned
against complacency. The inquiry will re-examine what security services knew
before 7/7, what should have been done and the Government's response ‹ including
the emergency Cobra committee.

MPs will assess any "common threads" between 7 July, the failed bombings on 21
July and other terrorist incidents. These include the Crevice case, which saw
five men jailed for life for an al Qaeda-linked bomb plot whose targets included
a nightclub and shopping centre. Some of the Crevice plotters met two of the 7
July suicide bombers.

The inquiry will re-open questions over the report by the Intelligence and
Security Committee, which cleared MI5 and the police of blame for 7/7, despite
new evidence revealing their knowledge of some of the bombers.

The ISC said it was "understandable and reasonable" that the terrorists had not
been detected before the attacks, in which 52 people were murdered by four
suicide bombers.

But survivors and victims' relatives said it was "a complete whitewash".

Members of the security and intelligence services may be more guarded with MPs
on the home affairs committee. So while the inquiry will be more wide-ranging,
it may have more difficulty obtaining information.

Another focus of the inquiry will be the Cobra committee after Andy Hayman, the
former head of Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism operations, recently described
it as "a nonsensical system". Mr Hayman was at Cobra meetings during the London
bombings. The former counter-terrorism chief criticised Cobra as too
bureaucratic, overly political and cumbersome.

Tory MP Patrick Mercer, a member of the home affairs committee, said: "This will
be the biggest inquiry into July 7 and other terrorist incidents in Britain."

Mr Mercer chaired a home affairs sub-committee whose report on the Government's
Contest counter-terrorism strategy was published today.

While praising the Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism, the committee
issued warnings over measures to protect the Tube and the 2012 Olympics in
London.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright  2009    Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                              July 7, 2009 Tuesday

National: Detectives fear far right will stage terror attack: 'Spectacular'
would be aimed at killing people: Muslims and Jews thought to be target of
extremists

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 539 words


Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism command fears that right-wing extremists will
stage a deadly terrorist attack in Britain to try to stoke racial tensions, the
Guardian has learned.

Senior officers say it will be a "spectacular" that is designed to kill. The
counter-terrorism unit has redeployed officers to increase its monitoring of the
extreme right's potential to stage attacks.

Commander Shaun Sawyer told a meeting of British Muslims concerned about the
danger to their communities that police were responding to the growing threat.

Sawyer said of the far right: "I fear that they will have a spectacular. . .
they will carry out an attack that will lead to a loss of life or injury to a
community somewhere. They're not choosy about which community."

He said the aim would be to cause a "breakdown in community cohesion".

Sawyer revealed that the Met commissioner, Sir Paul Stephenson, had asked the
counter-terrorism command, SO15, to examine what the economic downturn would
mean for far-right violence. The assessment concluded that the recession would
increase the possibility of it.

Sawyer told the meeting last Wednesday that more of his officers needed to be
deployed to try to thwart neo-Nazi-inspired violence. He said the terrorist
threat posed by al-Qaida remained the unit's priority, but said of its far-right
section: "It is a small desk . . . we need to grow that unit." Sources have told
the Guardian that while they believe the neo-Nazi terrorist threat has grown,
they have no specific intelligence of an attack.

"There is an increased possibility of violence from the far right. There is a
trend," said one senior source, adding that the ideology of the violent right
was driven by "people who don't like immigration, people who don't like Islam.
We're seeing a resurgence of anti-semitism as well."

The meeting at which Sawyer spoke was staged by the Muslim Safety Forum, whose
chair, Abdurahman Jafar, said: "Muslims are the first line of victims in the
extreme right's campaign of hate and division and they make no secret about
that. Statistics show a strong correlation between the rise of racist and
Islamophobic hate crime and the ascendancy of the BNP."

It is a decade since an extreme rightwing terrorist has used bombs to claim
lives in Britain. In 1999, David Copeland struck three targets in London. His
attack on a gay pub in Soho, London, killed three people and left scores
injured. It followed attacks against the Muslim community in Brick Lane, east
London, and the bombing of a market in Brixton, south London.

The senior source said: "When Copeland attacked we did not have the religious
tensions with the Muslim community. What kind of schism would a Copeland-type
event cause now?"

The far-right threat to Britain's Jewish communities is monitored by the
Community Security Trust, which says attempted terrorist violence by neo-Nazis
has increased in the past few years. It says nine white men have been "convicted
of offences involving explosives, terrorist plots, violent campaigns or threats
to carry them out".

David Rich, of the CST, said: "There's no one directing people, it's a mindset"
- a reference to the easy availability of extremist right-wing material and
information about making bombs.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                              July 7, 2009 Tuesday

Police Fears Over Deadly Terror Attack

SECTION: A; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 298 words


Chris Greenwood

COUNTER TERRORISM chiefs fear right-wing extremists are plotting a murderous
terrorist attack to fuel racial tension, it emerged last night.

Senior officers have increased their surveillance of suspected conspirators to
monitor their ability to carry out a deadly attack.

The details emerged at a meeting of the Muslim Safety Forum, which advises the
Metropolitan Police on race issues. Commander Shaun Sawyer, of the force's
specialist operations wing, told members the police are responding to a growing
threat,  a national newspaper claimed.

He said: "I fear that they will have a spectacular ... They will carry out an
attack that will lead to a loss of life or injury to a community somewhere.
They're not choosy about which community."

Mr Sawyer added that al Qaida-inspired terror remains the top priority of his
officers, but more resources are needed to counter neo-Nazis.

His comments came after Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson asked officers to
examine what effect the recession could have on far-right violence.

The news mirrors similar warnings of the threat from far-right sympathisers
issued in America in recent months. It is more than 10 years since neo-Nazi nail
bomber David Copeland attacked three targets in London in 1999. Three people
died at the Admiral Duncan gay pub in Soho.

Copeland also targeted the Muslim community in Brick Lane, east London, and a
supermarket in Brixton, south London.

Mark Gardner, of the Community Security Trust , which monitors violence against
Jews, said there has been a surge in right-wing incidents.

He said: "Ten years after the Nazi nail bombings in London, we are seeing
increasing numbers of neo-Nazis being arrested in their attempts to start some
kind of so-called race war."

The Metropolitan Police declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  London Lite

                              July 7, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Sad tributes of families at memorial for 7/7 dead;
MONUMENT UNVEILED ON ANNIVERSARY OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: MARK BLUNDEN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 354 words


RELATIVES of the 52 victims of the 7/7 Tube bombings today paid special tribute
to their lost loved ones with the unveiling of a memorial in Hyde Park.

The families were joined at the emotional ceremony on the fourth anniversary of
the attacks by the Prince of Wales who unveiled the monument, and guests
including Gordon Brown and Mayor Boris Johnson, as the nation remembered those
killed and injured in the atrocities.

The £1m monument is made of 52 unique stainless steel columns, grouped in four
clusters to reflect the locations - Tavistock Square, Edgware Road, King's Cross
and Aldgate - where four suicide bombers detonated their rucksack bombs,
shattering the lives of so many.

As guests assembled for the ceremony, they wandered among the columns, touching
them and reading the names inscribed on a plaque placed at the site between the
park's Lover's Walk and Park Lane.

Saba Mozakka, 28, one of six relatives on the board which helped create the
monument, said: "We think it is truly incredible and reflects the importance of
the people commemorated."

Her mother, Behnaz, 47, a bio-medicaofficer, was killed on the Piccadilly line
Tube while commuting to work. Ms Mozakka added: "I think and hope people will
feel passionately about the memorial when we open it."

Mr Johnson said: "This memorial echoes the steely determina-tioshown by
Londoners in the days following the bombings. We have done much to make London
safer, but today reminds us that London's strength ultimately lies with its
people."

Today's ceremony came as the most far-ranging parliamentary inquiry into the
2005 bombings and other terrorist incidents in Britain was launched.

MPs said the Tube remains "extremely vulnerable" to attack. MI5 and MI6 chiefs,
as well as terrorism experts, will be asked to give evidence to the Commons home
affairs committee.

The inquiry will re-examine what should have been done and the Government's
response to the attacks. It will also re-open questions over a report by the
intelligence and security committee, which cleared MI5 and the police of blame
despite evidence revealing their knowledge of some of the bombers.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Grief: a couple pay their respects among tributes laid at Tavistock
Square
Emotional: Charlotte Harris, 19, whose friend was killed at Edgware Road

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LOL


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Metro (UK)

                              July 7, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Yard fears terror attack from militant far-right

BYLINE: John Higginson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 250 words


POLICE are preparing for a terror attack by white right-wing extremists who want
to stoke racial tensions, a senior Met Police officer has warned.

Officers fear the attack will be 'spectacular' and 'lead to a loss of life or
injury', said Shaun Sawyer, Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism commander.

He told a meeting of British Muslims concerned about the danger to their
communities that police were responding to the growing threat from right-wing
extremists.

Mr Sawyer said of the far right: 'I fear that they will have a spectacular...
They will carry out an attack that will lead to a loss of life or injury to a
community somewhere. They're not choosy about which community.' He also revealed
that Met commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson has asked the counter-terrorism
command, SO15, to examine what the economic downturn would mean for far-right
violence.

The terrorist threat posed by al-Qaeda remained the unit's priority but the
Met's far-right section needed to be expanded, Mr Sawyer told the meeting.

'It is a small desk, we need to grow that unit,' he said.

At the weekend, it was revealed a network of suspected far-right extremists with
access to 300 weapons and 80 bombs had been uncovered by counter-terrorism
detectives.

Thirty-two people have been questioned in the police operation, which saw
England's largest seizure of a suspected terrorist arsenal since the IRA
mainland bombings of the early 1990s. Arms including rocket launch-erand
grenades have been recovered in the past six weeks.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MTR


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: LONDON

                        July 7, 2009 Tuesday 2:27 PM BST

MPs LAUNCH FRESH INQUIRY INTO LONDON TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 245 words


MPs have launched a major new inquiry into the July 7 bombings in London on the
anniversary of the attacks.

The House of Commons Home Affairs Committee is expected to call senior
intelligence officials to give evidence.

In its report on the Government's anti-terror strategy, which was published
today, the committee warned the London Underground was still ``extremely
vulnerable'' to terrorist attack.

Committee chairman Labour MP Keith Vaz said: ``Following this report we will now
embark on a new inquiry into the 7/7 bombings.''

He said MPs would begin by looking at how Cobra, the Cabinet Office's emergency
committee, responded to to attacks.

It follows criticism of the committee by former Scotland Yard counter-terror
boss Andy Hayman.

He said Cobra was a ``nonsensical system that drags people away from the serious
job in hand to attend a crisis meeting''.

Mr Vaz said: ``The former Metropolitan Police Counter-Terrorism chief Andy
Hayman recently raised some questions about the work of Cobra, the committee set
up to deal with national emergency situations, and we will be considering its
effectiveness as the next stage of our scrutiny in this area.''

Survivors of July 7 and relatives of victims have called for a full public
inquiry in to the attacks. They want an inquiry modelled on the commission that
investigated the 9/11 attacks in the US.

In its report, the committee criticises Transport for London for inadequate
communications on the day of the attack.`` end

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 7, 2009 Tuesday 1:52 PM BST

MPs LAUNCH FRESH INQUIRY INTO LONDON TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Jack Doyle, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 495 words


MPs launched a major new inquiry into the July 7 bombings on the anniversary of
the attacks today.

The House of Commons Home Affairs Committee is expected to call senior
intelligence officials to give evidence.

In its report on the Government's anti-terror strategy, which was published
today, the committee warned the London Underground was still ``extremely
vulnerable'' to terrorist attack.

Committee chairman Labour MP Keith Vaz said: ``Following this report we will now
embark on a new inquiry into the 7/7 bombings.''

He said MPs would begin by looking at how Cobra, the Cabinet Office's emergency
committee, responded to to attacks.

It follows criticism of the committee by former Scotland Yard counter-terror
boss Andy Hayman.

He said Cobra was a ``nonsensical system that drags people away from the serious
job in hand to attend a crisis meeting''.

Mr Vaz said: ``The former Metropolitan Police Counter-Terrorism chief Andy
Hayman recently raised some questions about the work of Cobra, the committee set
up to deal with national emergency situations, and we will be considering its
effectiveness as the next stage of our scrutiny in this area.''

Survivors of July 7 and relatives of victims have called for a full public
inquiry in to the attacks. They want an inquiry modelled on the commission that
investigated the 9/11 attacks in the US.

In its report, the committee criticises Transport for London for inadequate
communications on the day of the attack.

It says the 2012 Olympics is ``another critical area of vulnerability''.

The report concludes: ``The UK continues to face a sustained and extremely grave
threat from terrorism.

``After a slow start, the Government has done a great deal to improve its
counter-terrorism structures and now has an impressive approach to the issue.

``However, more work remains to be done. The threats have not lessened
significantly, nor do we expect them to do so in the immediate future.''

Graham Foulkes, from Oldham, Greater Manchester, whose 22-year-old son David was
killed in the Edgware Road bombing, welcomed the move.

He said: ``I see that as really positive and I think it's good news. I would
like an independent inquiry, but this is a very good second.''

Mr Vaz added: ``The committee will be launching an inquiry in the next
Parliamentary session looking at the events leading up to the 7/7 bombings.

``There have been numerous reports since the tragic event, however, given that
the Crevice trial is now completed it seems necessary to investigate and
establish the level of intelligence before the bombings and what recommendations
can be made about future operations.''

``The Committee will be inviting MI5, MI6 and terrorism experts to give evidence
with the aim of gaining a detailed picture of what the security services knew
before 7/7, what, if anything, could have been done to prevent the attacks and
the Government's response to the attacks.

``We will also look at the mechanism of Cobra as the emergency committee.''

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 7, 2009 Tuesday 2:46 AM BST

TERROR ATTACK VICTIMS

BYLINE: Press Association Reporter

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 787 words


These are the 52 victims of the July 7 2005 terrorist attacks on London.

Twenty-six died in the bombing at Russell Square on the Piccadilly line:

James Adams, 32, a mortgage broker from Peterborough, Cambridgeshire.

Anna Brandt, 42, a Polish national living in Wood Green, north London, who
worked as a cleaner.

Phil Beer, 22, a hair stylist from Borehamwood, Hertfordshire.

Ciaran Cassidy, 22, a shop assistant from Upper Holloway, north London.

Elizabeth Daplyn, 26, a hospital administrator from Highgate, north London.

Arthur Frederick, 60, a museum security guard from Seven Sisters, north London,
who was originally from Montserrat in the Caribbean.

Karolina Gluck, 29, a Polish national living in Finsbury Park, north London, who
worked at a private postgraduate college.

Gamze Gunoral, 24, a Turkish national staying in Totteridge, north London, while
she studied English.

Lee Harris, 30, an architect who died alongside his partner Samantha Badham, 35,
an internet designer. The couple, who lived in Tottenham, north London, met over
a decade earlier.

Ojara Ikeagwu, 55, a married mother-of-three and social worker from Luton.

Emily Jenkins, 24, who grew up in Kew, south-west London, and was set to become
a midwife.

Adrian Johnson, 37, a married father-of-two and product technical manager for
Burberry from Sutton-in-Ashfield, Nottinghamshire.

Helen Jones, 28, a Scottish-born accountant living in Holloway, north London.

Susan Levy, 53, a mother-of-two and legal secretary from the village of Newgate
Street, near Cuffley, Hertfordshire.

Shelley Mather, 26, from New Zealand, who had been living in London for three
years.

Mike Matsushita, 37, a Vietnamese-American who had just moved to Islington,
north London and started a new job in IT recruitment.

James Mayes, 28, an analyst for the Healthcare Commission from Islington, north
London.

Behnaz Mozakka, 47, a biomedical officer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from
Finchley, north London.

Mihaela Otto, 46, a dental technician from Mill Hill, north London.

Ateeque Sharifi, 24, an Afghan national living in Hounslow, west London, who was
studying English and IT at college.

Ihab Slimane, 19, a waiter originally from Paris who was living in Finsbury
Park, north London.

Christian Small, 28, an advertising sales worker from Walthamstow, east London.

Monika Suchocka, 23, a trainee accountant from Poland, who was living in
Archway, north London.

Mala Trivedi, 51, a radiographer at Great Ormond Street Hospital from Wembley,
north-west London.

Rachelle Yuen, 27, an accountant from Mill Hill, north London, who was
originally from Mauritius.

Thirteen died in the bombing on the number 30 bus at Tavistock Square:

Anthony Fatayi-Williams, 26, an oil executive from Hendon, north-west London.

Jamie Gordon, 30, a City worker from Enfield, north London.

Giles Hart, 55, a BT engineer and father-of-two from Hornchurch, Essex.

Marie Hartley, 34, from Oswaldtwistle, Lancashire, who worked for a greetings
card firm.

Miriam Hyman, 31, a picture researcher from Barnet, north London.

Shahara Islam, 20, a bank cashier from Plaistow, east London.

Neetu Jain, 37, a computer analyst from Hendon, north London.

Sam Ly, 28, a Vietnamese-born computer technician from Melbourne, Australia.

Shyanuja Parathasangary, 30, a post office worker from Kensal Rise, north
London.

Anat Rosenberg, 39, an Israeli charity worker who was living in Finsbury Park,
north London.

Philip Russell, 28, a financier from Kennington, south London.

William Wise, 54, an IT specialist from Notting Hill, west London.

Gladys Wundowa, 50, from Ilford, Essex, who worked as a cleaner at University
College London.

Six died in the bombing at Edgware Road on the Circle Line:

Michael Stanley Brewster, 52, a civil engineer and father-of-two from Derby.

Jonathan Downey, 34, from Milton Keynes, an HR systems development officer.

David Foulkes, 22, a newspaper sales manager from Oldham, Greater Manchester.

Colin Morley, 52, from Finchley, north London, who worked in advertising and
marketing.

Jennifer Nicholson, 24, from Reading, Berkshire, who worked for a music company.

Laura Webb, 29, from Islington, north London, who worked for an advertising
firm.

Seven died in the bombing at Aldgate on the Circle Line:

Lee Baisden, 34, an accountant for the London Fire Brigade from Romford in
Essex.

Benedetta Ciaccia, 30, a business analyst from Norwich.

Richard Ellery, 21, a shop worker from Ipswich.

Richard Gray, 41, a tax manager from Ipswich.

Anne Moffat, 48, from Old Harlow, Essex, who worked as head of marketing and
communications for Girlguiding UK.

Fiona Stevenson, 29, a solicitor living in central London whose parents were
from Little Baddow, Essex.

Carrie Taylor, 24, a finance officer at the Royal Society of Arts from
Billericay, Essex.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

WHITE NEO-NAZIS PLOT TERROR ATTACKS IN UK;
Top cop warns of race war fears

BYLINE: by JOSH LAYTON

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 242 words


WHITE extremists are plotting a terror attack to try to trigger a race war in
the UK.

Senior Met officers believe the far-right nuts are planning a "spectacular"
atrocity.

The threat was revealed by Scotland Yard counter-terrorism commander Shaun
Sawyer at a meeting of Brit Muslims.

He said of the far right: "They will carry out an attack that will lead to a
loss of life or injury. They're not choosy about which community."

He said Met Commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson had asked counter-terrorism unit
SO15 to study links between the recession and far-right violence.

Mr Sawyer told the Muslim Safety Forum al-Qaida was top priority but the Met
needed to expand its far-right section.

Last weekend a suspected white extremist ring with access to 300 weapons and 80
bombs was smashed.

It is the biggest haul uncovered in the UK since the 1990s.

Thirty-two people were quizzed and 22 homes raided over the alleged plot to bomb
mosques.

Past attacks by white extremists include a nail bomb campaign by neo-Nazi David
Copeland. Three people died in 1999 when one of his devices went off at the
Admiral Duncan pub in Soho.

Neo-Nazi Martyn Gilleard, 31, right, was last year jailed for 16 years for
hoarding weapons.

The Forum's Abdurahman Jafar said: "Muslims are the first line of victims in the
extreme right's campaign of hate."

FOOTBALL yobs calling themselves "Casuals United" fought followers of hate
cleric Anjem Choudary in Birmingham and London last Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NAIL BOMB: Victims of the 1999 Admiral Duncan pub attack in Soho
SINISTER: Marchers in Luton this year

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday

Memorial for victims of London terrorist attacks officially unveiled today

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 126 words


A Memorial commemorating the 52 victims of the July 7 bombings was officially
unveiled yesterday,   the fourth anniversary of the terrorist attacks.

Stan Brewster, from Swanwick, was among those killed in the bombings.

The 52-year-old, a Derbyshire County Council engineer, had been in London to
attend a conference.

The memorial honouring the victims has cost nearly £1m and has been placed in
Hyde Park.

It is made up of 52 stainless steel columns, grouped together in four clusters
to reflect the separate locations of the bombs - Tavistock Square, Edgware Road,
King's Cross and Aldgate.

Families of the victims joined The Prince of Wales and Tessa Jowell,
humanitarian assistance minister, for the official unveiling, which was followed
by a minute's silence.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 42


                     Copyright 2009 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 8, 2009 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Neo-Nazis plan terror attack to spark race war

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 201  words


RIGHT-WING extremists are plotting a terror attack aimed at sparking a race war
in Britain, police chiefs fear.

Detectives have stepped up surveillance of neo-Nazi sympathisers, and Muslims
have been warned they could be targeted to inflame tensions.

The warning emerged at a meeting of the Muslim Safety Forum, a group that
liaises with senior police officers to discuss security issues.

Commander Shaun Sawyer, of the Scotland Yard's specialist operations wing, said:
"I fear that they will have a spectacular.

"They will carry out an attack that will lead to a loss of life or injury to a
community somewhere.

They're not choosy about which community."

He said Al Qaeda remained the top priority but neo-Nazis were emerging as a
serious threat.

Nail bomber David Copeland was jailed for life for the last neoNazi terror
strikes in the UK, in London in 1999. Neo-Nazi Martyn Gilleard was jailed for 16
years last year for terrorism offences after nail bombs, machetes, gunpowder and
racist literature was found at his home in Goole, East Yorkshire.

A Met spokeswoman confirmed that recent prosecutions and statements by
extremists groups had given an indication of intentions "by violent extremists
to cause harm".

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      The Argus (Newsquest Regional Press)

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday

Jury in Hastings stalker attacks trial told car salesman "terrorised lone women"

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS (GENERAL NEWS)

LENGTH: 896 words


A car salesman was responsible for a series of random, motiveless attacks on
women in a seaside town over a two-year period, a jury was told today.

Adam Gall, 27, is alleged to have roamed a small geographical area of Hastings,
East Sussex, to target mainly vulnerable young women, largely between 10pm and
3am.

Lewes Crown Court heard he inflicted harm on more than 10 women and girls aged
from 15 to 50-plus over a two-year period from 2006 before being caught during
an attack after being placed under police surveillance.

Prosecutor Christine Laing QC said the level of violence escalated over the two
years, to the extent where a bottle was used on one occasion and a metal bar on
another later on in the series.

The jury was told that the victims were left with injuries ranging from
bruising, concussion and broken bones, and that most of them remain traumatised
by their ordeals.

In her opening speech, Ms Laing said: "We say this was a series of offences
where this defendant terrorised lone women and inflicted violence upon them.

"The Crown say that this defendant is a serial offender for whom the stalking of
women utterly unknown to him in order to both terrify them and to attack them
became a way of life."

All of the offences took place within a small area of the resort in and around
Alexandra Park, St Helen's Road and the surrounding areas.

Ms Laing went on: "All of the offences, bar one, were in suburban streets. They
were sudden, shocking attacks which for the victims came completely out of the
blue. There is no overt motive for the attacks."

She said that "putting fear and inflicting damage" upon the victims was what
Gall wanted to achieve.

Bespectacled Gall, who lived with his parents in Pilgrims Way, Hastings, denies
14 counts, including sexual assault, assault by beating, wounding with intent,
and a number of other assault charges.

Ms Laing said four people picked Gall out as being the attacker, but most
victims were unable to identify him because he often made a concerted effort to
hide his face with his hands.

Jurors heard that the only criteria for Gall when picking his victims was that
they were a lone female or with another female and that they should be within a
certain localised area of Hastings.

Unmarried Gall "stalked and actively toured" the Alexandra Park and St Helen's
Road parts of the town in various motor vehicles looking for suitable victims,
Ms Laing added.

Although there was a sense of fear that a serial attacker was on the loose in
Hastings, it was not until June 2008 that the offences were formally linked and
the case passed to Sussex Police's major crime branch.

Ms Laing said the offences were committed by the same offender, "linked by
distinctive shared features" and that there was a "compelling body of evidence"
that one offender committed the attacks.

The "shared features" included the area where the attacks took place, the
pattern of timing, invariably the attacks happened between 10pm and 3am, the
sudden approach by the attacker and evidence that he firstly stalked them in a
vehicle.

In addition, it was said there were consistent descriptions of the attacker,
with more than one victim or witness describing to police that he wore a baby
blue jumper.

"The Crown say that when the detail of the linked features are considered the
similarities are such that you will be drawn to the conclusion that the same
person committed these offences," Ms Laing told jurors.

The first of Gall's alleged crimes in August 2006 appeared to be an isolated
incident and the woman was only able to give police a general description of her
attacker because he approached her from behind.

The second incident, in February 2007, happened as a woman was walking her dog
in Alexandra Park. No attempt was made to steal anything and, again, the
incident seemed to be an isolated one, the court heard.

But Ms Laing said that some six weeks later a young woman who was with her
friend was struck in the face in an unprovoked attack in the early hours in
Elphinstone Road.

No link was made at the time to the previous crimes but Ms Laing said the
incident bore similar traits to the attack on the first victim. Ms Laing also
said it was reported the attacker had a distinctive way of holding his arms out.

Another six weeks later and another woman was attacked by being punched in the
face as she walked along Clive Avenue just after 1am, which she described as "if
she had walked into a lamp-post".

Further attacks took place and the level of violence used was increasing, the
court heard. One woman was struck in the face with a bottle in Priory Avenue
after Gall allegedly approached her by simply saying "Excuse me".

In a further incident, as a woman made her way to her boyfriend's house, the
attacker approached and said "Sorry if I made you jump" before hitting her round
the head.

The series of attacks continued up until the point when Gall was "caught in the
act" during an attack on a woman in August 2008 after he had been placed under
police surveillance.

Ms Laing said that during their operation on Gall, police witnessed him driving
aimless routes of the area where the incidents took and showed particular
interest when he spotted lone females.

Gall, who worked for a car dealership called St Leonards Motors which gave him
access to different vehicles, was tackled to the floor during the attack on the
last victim and was arrested.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday

Sri Lanka president asks to maintain vigilance against terror attacks

LENGTH: 141 words


Text of report published by Sri Lankan newspaper Daily Mirror website on 9 July

President Mahinda Rajapakse instructed the Cabinet ministers yesterday to
maintain vigilance regarding possible terrorist attacks. The President cautioned
the ministers not to scale down their security. He noted that there could still
be LTTE [Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam] members who had arrived in the city
earlier on terrorist missions.

"Only one and half months have elapsed since the defeat of the LTTE,
militarily," he said.

Referring to the IDP issue, he said that it was a very difficult task. He
observed that this problem could not be solved as easily as demanded by some
international organisations. "It will take a long time even to prepare lists of
those hundreds of thousands of IDPs," he said.

Source: Daily Mirror website, Colombo, in English 09 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday

South Serbia rocket attack is "terrorist act" - interior chief

LENGTH: 307 words


Text of report by Serbian private independent news agency FoNet

Belgrade, 9 July: The attack on a regular Gendarmerie patrol in the Ground
Safety Zone is a terrorist act, an attack on the Serbian state, its territorial
integrity and members of the Interior Ministry, Serbian Interior Minister Ivica
Dacic said today while visiting the wounded gendarmes at the Military Medical
Academy [in Belgrade].

"This was not an ordinary attack on police. This was an attack with a portable
grenade launcher. How else can we describe this than an attack on the Serbian
state and its territorial integrity," Dacic told reporters.

He stressed that this was a classic ambush of the kind already experienced over
the past years in the Ground Safety Zone.

"These are obviously remnants of terrorist groups and extremists who have
already been there and who often cross over from the territory of
Kosovo-Metohija," Dacic said.

Dacic said that Gendarmerie presence had been boosted after the attack, that an
investigation and search for the perpetrators was under way, but that this is
very difficult in the Ground Safety Zone as this is a "politically volatile
area".

"In such conditions it is very difficult to carry out a detailed search which
involves searching suspect locations and homes," Dacic said.

He added that the issues of human rights and liberties and minority rights had
nothing to do with the problem of terrorism.

"This is a universal evil and I make no distinction between Serbs and national
minorities when it comes to perpetrators," Dacic said.

"We will resolutely respond to any threat to our territorial integrity or attack
on members of the Interior Ministry," he pointed out.

Dacic said that the sole purpose of the Gendarmerie in southern Serbia was to
maintain peace and security.

Source: FoNet news agency, Belgrade, in Serbian 1237 gmt 9 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday

Egypt says "terrorist organization" planning attacks on Suez Canal arrested

LENGTH: 442 words


Within its 1300 gmt newscast on 9 July, Dubai Al-Arabiya Television in Arabic
carries the following report:

"The Egyptian Interior Ministry has apprehended the members of a terrorist cell
comprising 25 Egyptians and one Palestinian. A statement by the ministry said
that the detainees managed to manufacture infrared electronic detonators and
mobile phones. The surveillance operation of the organization revealed that the
detainees had contacts with the Al-Qa'idah Organization and the Palestinian Army
of Islam via the Internet. The cell was planning to target foreign vessels in
the Suez Canal and oil pipelines. The ministry also seized weapons that had been
used in the May 2008 attempted armed robbery that targeted a jewellery shop in
the Al-Zaytun area, resulting in the murder of the shop's owner, a Coptic, and
four other employees."

The channel then carries a live interview over the telephone with Abd-al-Rahim
Ali, head of the Arab Centre for Research and Studies, for more comments.

Ali says: "The security agencies started to detect groups that receive orders
from outside via the Internet. The groups are mainly Egyptian, but they are
allowed to train inside Gaza through the tunnels dug by the so-called the
Palestinian Army of Islam, which is led by Mumtaz Dighmish, in Gaza."

Elaborating, he says: "Some of these elements went into Gaza for training. They
were assisted by Tamir Muhammad Musa Abu-Gaz, a Palestinian element."

Asked to comment on the goals of the group's operations, he says: "The
operations were meant to target Egypt in the first place. Some of them aimed to
target goals inside Egypt, whereas some others aimed to target goals abroad. For
instance, some of the documents and papers that were seized reveal an intention
to cooperate with the Iraqis in making some of the substances that can be used
in remote detonators and that cannot be detected by the security agencies."

He goes on to say: "What we have now is an initial statement and initial
investigations. But the upcoming clues and links between these groups and the
Army of Islam, which we, through Al-Arabiya, have repeatedly drawn attention to
how dangerous it is [changes thought] Hamas supports this army, which is
stationed inside Gaza and the Hamas-controlled areas."

He goes on to say: "I cannot understand why an armed organization affiliated
with the Al-Qa'idah has presence in a territory that is exclusively ruled by
Hamas. Why are these groups not found [changes thought]. What does the struggle
against Israel have to do with a jewellery shop owned by a Coptic citizen in the
Al-Zaytun area?"

Source: Al-Arabiya TV, Dubai, in Arabic 1300 gmt 9 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday

Shopkeeper's fear after terror attack

BYLINE: Jon Bamber

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 448 words


Shopkeeper Vilvarajah Sutharshan  closes up earlier and no longer keeps a stick
under the counter after being the victim of a terrifying attack.

The 29-year-old was working alone at West End News in Oakhill when raiders
entered just before 10pm on February 13.

He recognised the robbers at his London Road shop as they were both regular
customers.

One was Adam Wright, aged 20, of Oversley Road, Fegg Hayes, who was last week
jailed for two years and eight months after admitting robbery and theft.

The other, Dean Willock, aged 17, of Diarmid Road, Hanford, was sentenced to
three years and eight months in a young offenders' institution for robbery.

Mr Sutharshan welcomed the sentences, telling The Sentinel that the robbery had
such an effect on him mentally he was hardly able to sleep for two weeks.

And he added that he has shut his shop earlier since the attack.

He said: "I was alone. It was closing time. One stood at the door, the other
came to the side of the counter.

"I asked them if they wanted to buy anything, as I was about to close. One of
them punched me. I said I did not want to fight and told them to get out. I had
a stick behind the counter. One of them walked behind the counter. I pushed him
out. I took out the stick and hit him.

"I kept saying 'Get out'.

"One came from behind and grabbed me. They took the stick off me and hit me two
times with it. I managed to get outside the shop and pull the door, leaving them
inside.

"A customer was walking past and he phoned the police.

"They were trying to pull open the door as I was outside trying to keep them in,
but I was unable to hold them and they got away before the police arrived. I
just let them run off. When they went I sat on my chair until the police came."

Mr Sutharshan, who lives above the shop, was left with a bleeding nose and a
swollen forearm, which he received trying to protect himself from the blows.

Police took away CCTV footage and the shopkeeper said he could easily identify
both offenders, who got away with bottles of alcohol and cigarettes.

"I was very frightened during the robbery and I could not sleep for two weeks
afterwards," said Mr Sutharshan.

"I now close up at 9.30pm or 9.40pm.

"I kept the stick behind the counter just in case, but I never really thought I
would have to use it. I don't keep one anymore."

Sentencing the two offenders last Friday, Judge Paul Glenn described the robbery
as "ugly, disgraceful and prolonged". He told both defendants they behaved like
yobs.

Mr Sutharshan added: "I am happy these robbers have been brought to justice.

"I am very grateful to my other customers, those who called the police and those
who have been nice to me and supportive since the robbery."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2009 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             July 9, 2009 Thursday

Shopkeeper's fear after terror attack

BYLINE: Jon Bamber

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 448 words


Shopkeeper Vilvarajah Sutharshan  closes up earlier and no longer keeps a stick
under the counter after being the victim of a terrifying attack.

The 29-year-old was working alone at West End News in Oakhill when raiders
entered just before 10pm on February 13.

He recognised the robbers at his London Road shop as they were both regular
customers.

One was Adam Wright, aged 20, of Oversley Road, Fegg Hayes, who was last week
jailed for two years and eight months after admitting robbery and theft.

The other, Dean Willock, aged 17, of Diarmid Road, Hanford, was sentenced to
three years and eight months in a young offenders' institution for robbery.

Mr Sutharshan welcomed the sentences, telling The Sentinel that the robbery had
such an effect on him mentally he was hardly able to sleep for two weeks.

And he added that he has shut his shop earlier since the attack.

He said: "I was alone. It was closing time. One stood at the door, the other
came to the side of the counter.

"I asked them if they wanted to buy anything, as I was about to close. One of
them punched me. I said I did not want to fight and told them to get out. I had
a stick behind the counter. One of them walked behind the counter. I pushed him
out. I took out the stick and hit him.

"I kept saying 'Get out'.

"One came from behind and grabbed me. They took the stick off me and hit me two
times with it. I managed to get outside the shop and pull the door, leaving them
inside.

"A customer was walking past and he phoned the police.

"They were trying to pull open the door as I was outside trying to keep them in,
but I was unable to hold them and they got away before the police arrived. I
just let them run off. When they went I sat on my chair until the police came."

Mr Sutharshan, who lives above the shop, was left with a bleeding nose and a
swollen forearm, which he received trying to protect himself from the blows.

Police took away CCTV footage and the shopkeeper said he could easily identify
both offenders, who got away with bottles of alcohol and cigarettes.

"I was very frightened during the robbery and I could not sleep for two weeks
afterwards," said Mr Sutharshan.

"I now close up at 9.30pm or 9.40pm.

"I kept the stick behind the counter just in case, but I never really thought I
would have to use it. I don't keep one anymore."

Sentencing the two offenders last Friday, Judge Paul Glenn described the robbery
as "ugly, disgraceful and prolonged". He told both defendants they behaved like
yobs.

Mr Sutharshan added: "I am happy these robbers have been brought to justice.

"I am very grateful to my other customers, those who called the police and those
who have been nice to me and supportive since the robbery."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 51


                      Copyright 2009 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 10, 2009 Friday

Article says India paying terrorists to attack Pakistani nuclear sites

LENGTH: 1305 words


Text of article by Ahmed Quraishi headlined "India pays terrorists to attack
Pakistan nuclear sites" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 9
July

Islamabad: India has paid terrorists who have well armed and trained terrorist
army around 25m dollars to mount a spectacular attack on a major Pakistani
nuclear site. A special force of around 500 recruits has been assembled and
trained to mount the operation that is supposed to shock the world.

Some foreign organizations have shared these information with the Pakistani
intelligence agencies.

The purpose is to create an event that will create a global media scare and
convince the world of the need for military intervention in Pakistan. Another
objective is to neutralize voices of reason within the US government that
believe Pakistan's nuclear arsenal is secure.

The bulk of the terrorists in the special 500-strong force have been trained
inside Afghanistan by trainers suspected of having links to the Indian
intelligence. Although most of the recruits are expected to be Pakistanis, an
unknown number of Afghan and Indian elements with special operations training
have been inserted in them in order to ensure the success of this high-profile
operation.

It is not clear when this plan was conceived and whether the 500-strong force
divided into crack teams to carry out the attack(s) is ready. But Pakistani
officials are taking no chances. The nation's security setup is on high alert.
As for the nuclear installations, the managers of Pakistan's strategic arsenal
maintain unrestricted universal operability to fulfill the arsenal's role as a
deterrent. Far them, no day is a normal day.

But this latest disclosure of a plan to attack the nuclear sites has raised
alarm bells, to say the least.

A rough sketch of the plan and how the attack(s) are expected to unfold goes as
follows:

1. A team or several teams of terrorists attack one or more Pakistani nuclear
sites and attempt to enter the facilities.

2. Within each crack team only a small core is supposed to be equipped with
modern communications equipment, special operations gear, and modern weapons;
highly trained to exact maximum damage.

3. Where possible, the terrorists plan to break in and hold the fort, a la
Mumbai attacks, in order to generate maximum media coverage and embarrassment
for the Pakistanis.

4. The international media, and especially the main American and British news
outlets, turn this into a global crisis, comparable to the Bay of Pigs in 1962.

5. The event generates enough pressure to justify an 'international demand' to
neutralise Pakistan's nuclear arsenal and force Pakistanis to accept
'international' supervision.

6. Depending on the aftermath, and after a few days or weeks, a small nuclear
weapon is used somewhere, maybe against the US military or Nato bases in
Afghanistan since it would be difficult to do it anywhere else, in order to
confirm that the Afghan Taleban or generally the 'Islamic extremists' managed to
steal a weapon from the earlier attack(s) on Pakistani sites.

This last point is critical. According to the available information, the
mysterious disappearance of a senior Indian nuclear scientist and his subsequent
death in May is linked to at least some parts of this plan. The scientist, Mr
Lokanathan Mahalingam, 47, had access to Indian's sensitive nuclear information
and worked at the prestigious Kaiga Atomic Power Station in the southern Indian
state Karnataka, close to Project Seabird, a major Indian military base. His
disappearance received limited coverage in the Indian media and there was almost
a blackout on the circumstances surrounding how his dead body was found in a
lake. The media in the US and Britain also ignored the story. It is believed
that Mr Mahalingam was either involved in or had some knowledge about the
planning for securing a small nuclear weapon that would leave no finger-prints,
to put it this way, in order to execute the idea in paragraph 6 above.

The Indians have been working on this scenario for some time now.

On 16 May, the Israeli security website Debka under a story titled, 'Singh warns
Obama: Pakistan is lost,' reported the following:

"India's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has told President Obama that nuclear
sites in Pakistan's restive frontier province are "already partly" in the hands
of Islamic extremists."

The Times of India, reporting the story, complained about "Washington's
misplaced confidence in, and [careless] approach towards, Pakistan's nuclear
assets," and grumbled that "Pakistan is ramping up its nuclear arsenal even as
the rest of the world is scaling it down."

The Indian interest is obvious. But so is the Israeli interest. It is quite
revealing that the story was broken by a news outlet known in international
circles, for its links to the Israeli government.

Official circles in Washington, including the White House, the State Department,
Pentagon and CIA are cognizant of a history of cooperation between India and
Israel in security issues. India's security establishment is largely focused on
Pakistan and on controlling Kashmir where the population is fighting the Indian
military. At least in one incident, during the limited Pakistan-India war in
1999, the Israelis directly intervened to help the battered Indian army overturn
a tactical victory by Pakistani and Kashmiri fighters.

As recently as two days ago, Bruce Riedel, a former CIA analyst and an Obama
adviser known for his strong anti-Pakistan views, wrote an article published at
the Brookings Institute website that demonstrates how far the anti-Pakistan
lobby is willing to go to prove that Pakistan's nuclear arsenal is not safe.

In Mr Riedel's case, he went as far as lying. He used a recent terrorist attack
on a bus carrying employees of KRL, a Pakistani nuclear facility, to say that
Pakistani nuclear sites are already under attack. What he conveniently ignored
is that the said bus was in fact traveling through a densely populated part of
the city and not anywhere near any nuclear site. The bus most probably became a
target of opportunity because it carried a plate indicating it was a government
vehicle.

Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's statement quoted by an Israeli source
which was widely reported and never denied by the Indians, the Israelis or the
Americans, was not the first to promote the alarmist and the unreal scenario of
Pakistani nuclear weapons getting into the wrong hands. Mr Singh came on record
during an interview with CNN in 2005 to say this:

"I am worried about the security of Pakistan's nuclear assets should President
Pervez Musharraf be replace since there is always the danger of Islamic
militants seizing power and taking control of the country's nuclear assets."

There is little question that influential parts of the Indian government are
involved in exporting terrorism into Pakistan from bases inside Afghanistan.
Attempts to incite ethnic unrest in Pakistan's southwest were traced by
investigators to Indians in Afghanistan. Pakistani investigators reached the
same conclusion with some of the evidence found in northwest Pakistan where
terrorists are killing Pakistanis. And now; there are reports of an impending
attack on Pakistan's nuclear facilities using terrorists.

The Indians and those who are supporting them should be under no illusions. Any
attack on Pakistani nuclear facilities in the coming days will be construed as a
declaration of war by India against Pakistan. Knowing of terrorists previous
contacts with Indians and with Karzai's people, any miscalculated attempt by
them will not be seen as anything less than a direct Indian attack. In this
case, Pakistan will consider itself in a state of war, and retaliate
accordingly. There should not be any confusion on this.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 09 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 10, 2009 Friday

Serbian leaders visit "terrorist attack" area of southern Serbia

LENGTH: 366 words


Text of report in English by Serbian pro-western Belgrade-based Radio B92
website, on 10 July

BELGRADE -- President Boris Tadic says that yesterday's attack on Gendarmerie
members was an act of terrorism, but that the state will not respond with
excessive force.

On a visit to a Serbian police (MUP) Gendarmerie base in the Ground Safety Zone
(GSZ), Tadic said that those responsible for yesterday's attack, where two
Gendarmerie members were wounded, would be treated as an act of terrorism.

He said that Serbia would respond to this attack and any future, similar ones
with patience, but decisiveness.

The president said that the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja
had to bear their share of the responsibility for the situation in the south of
the country, as did the international community, which was responsible for the
security situation in Kosovo.

Tadic is visiting the GSZ together with Interior Minister Ivica Dacic and
Defense Minister Dragan Sutanovac, as well as the chief-of-general-staff, the
heads of the security services and military intelligence, and the Gendarmerie
commander.

In the attack, which Dacic qualified as a "terrorist attack," officers Nenad
Nikolic and Milos Cerovic both sustained injuries and were transferred to the
Military Medical Academy in Belgrade to receive treatment.

Besides the village of Lucani near Bujanovac, the scene of the attack, the
president and ministers are also due to visit a number of police and army bases
nearby.

The precocity of the situation is borne out by the fact that neither Serb nor
Albanian political leaders were present in, or indeed anywhere near, Bujanovac
yesterday.

After news of the attack broke, they all cancelled their official engagements
and returned to the town.

An inquest established that a grenade had fallen just a few meters from the two
police vehicles, after which the attackers had opened fire on the Gendarmes, to
which the latter had responded in like.

Dacic said that there was intelligence information suggesting that organized,
illegal transfer of weapons and ammunitions over the administrative line was a
regular occurrence.

Source: Radio B92 text website, Belgrade, in English 1238 gmt 10 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                    Scotsman

                              July 10, 2009 Friday

Terror attacks on twin towers voted most iconic TV moment of all time

BYLINE: SHÂN ROSS

LENGTH: 634 words



HIGHLIGHT: THE terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York City on
11 September, 2001, has been voted the most iconic TV moment of all time.


Second in the top ten  of memorable televised events was Neil Armstrong's first
steps on the Moon on 21 July, 1969, when he made  "one small step for man, one
giant leap for mankind".

However, Scots differed from the rest of viewers in Britain who took part in the
online survey commissioned by TV Licensing by putting the fall of the Berlin
Wall in 1989 in third place.

Elsewhere in the UK, television viewers ranked the event third equal with the
funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales, in 1997 - while Scots put the funeral in
fifth place.

Not surprisingly, there was a marked difference in the most memorable sporting
event, with Scottish viewers ranking Archie Gemmill's goal against Holland in
the 1978 World Cup in eighth place.

Viewers south of the Border chose the England team's 1966 World Cup victory as
their eighth most iconic moment.

TV Licensing spokesman Fergus Reid said: "A lot has changed in the 40 years
since Neil Armstrong first set foot on the Moon, not least how we watch TV.

"A great example is that many people will have gathered round a computer -
rather than a TV set - to watch the most recent event in our top ten, Barack
Obama's inauguration."

Football pundit and former Scottish  star Alan Hansen revealed how his most
memorable TV moment inspired his career.

He said: "I remember watching the World Cup final in 1970, Italy versus Brazil,
the fourth goal, and at that moment knew that I wanted to be there myself,
playing in games like that in a World Cup. I will never forget watching that
game."

Last night,  former BBC senior manager Andrew Jones, the head of journalism at
Aberdeen's Robert Gordon University, said:

"It's interesting that the most iconic moments are major news events, rather
than comedy and entertainment.

"The difference between 9/11 and other news stories, and what made it
extraordinary, was that the audience were participants when the second tower
came down. It was in real time on people's screens."

Mr Jones added: "I'm not surprised Diana's funeral was not No3 in Scotland, as
there are probably more republicans - though this can't be proven.

"The football moments are massively significant too, especially for Scotland,
because they are a combination of victory but sometimes tragedy and angst.

"However much the media has proliferated, it  still has a pivotal role and
people still congregate together round a television at key moments," Mr Jones
said.

Iain Logie Baird, curator of Television at the National Media Museum in Bradford
and grandson of John Logie Baird, the Helensburgh-born inventor of television,
said: "A large part of television's power lies in how it is able to transmit
vision and sound instantaneously. Moments like the Moon landing are ephemeral -
they can be experienced only once in real time.

"Watching TV images from the Moon was a completely new experience for viewers,
and still exerts a powerful hold over our collective imagination."

The world in your living room:  how Scots viewers voted

SCOTTISH viewers' most iconic TV moments:

1. 9/11 terrorist attack on the twin towers in New York (2001) - 41 per cent.

2. Man walks on the Moon for the first time (1969) - 23 per cent.

3. Fall of the Berlin Wall which had divided East and West Berlin for 30 years
(1989) -  8 per cent.

4. Barack Obama's election/inauguration as US president  (2009) - 7 per cent.

5. Funeral of Diana, Princess of Wales  (1997) - 5 per cent.

6. Assassination  of John F  Kennedy (1963) - 4 per cent.

7. Nelson Mandela leaves Victor Verster prison after 27 years' imprisonment
(1990) -  3 per cent.

>8. Archie Gemmill's goal against Holland in the 1978 World Cup - 2 per cent

>8 Live Aid appeal (1985) -  2 per cent.

9. Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer marry (1981) -  1 per cent.

&#149 The YouGov poll of 2,035 adults was carried out between 12 and 15 June,
2009.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TS


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 11, 2009 Saturday

Uzbekistan detains 10 people suspected of 26 May terror attacks

LENGTH: 241 words


Excerpt from report by Russian internet news agency Regnum, specializing in
regional reporting

The Uzbek law-enforcement agencies have detained 10 members of a criminal group
involved in terrorist attacks in [eastern] Andijon Region [on 26 May], a source
at the country's law-enforcement agencies has told a Regnum Novosti news agency
correspondent.

The source said that all the detainees were residents of the Xojaobod
neighbourhood in Qurama village of Andijon Region's Xojaobod District.

"All the detainees were involved in the criminal grouping set up by a native of
the neighbourhood, Kamoliddin Matqosimov, who turned out to be the suicide
bomber who blew himself up in the town of Andijon on 26 May. As well as killing
himself, he also claimed the life of a senior road patrol service inspector,
Capt Baxtiyor Xolmirzayev, and injured several civilians.

In 2007, having promised well-paid jobs, he tempted the ten people to travel to
Astana where they were psychologically brainwashed on arrival. They were also
forced to take an oath, and then they started receiving assignments, including
smuggling various banned publications in electronic devices into Andijon
Region," the source explained.

[Passage omitted: the detainees are being questioned; covered details related to
the identification of the suicide bomber; the suicide bomber's two stepbrothers
are also among the ten]

Source: Regnum news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0632 gmt 11 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                 July 12, 2009
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TERROR ON THE THAMES;
River attack threat puts boat offi cers on alert

BYLINE: by SCOTT HESKETH

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 464 words


TERRORISTS are planning devastating summer strikes on London's top tourist
hotspots by sending boats packed with explosives down the Thames.

River police have been put on red alert for Islamic fanatics.

The Houses of Parliament, the London Eye and Canary Wharf figure among more than
100 "key site vulnerabilities" all thought to be under threat, security sources
have told the Daily Star Sunday.

The Met's Marine Support Unit has responded to the menace by stopping and
searching scores of boats under counter-terror laws.

Sgt Mark Spurgeon said: "Protecting London from terrorists is now our primary
objective.

"There are a number of high-profile buildings - like the Houses of Parliament
and the London Eye - that could be targeted at any time.

"We are stepping up patrols on the Thames and stopping and searching boats for
weapons and suspicious packages."

River security in the UK has tightened since gunmen slipped into Mumbai, India,
by boat and killed more than 100 people.

One intelligence insider said: "Mumbai showed just how easy it is for terrorists
to use boats to aid co-ordinated attacks. The vessels were used to get into the
city but they could just as easily launch an attack from the boats."

Preventing attacks is not the only responsibility of the unit - as the Daily
Star Sunday discovered when it joined the team for a routine patrol.

It also has the grim task of plucking bodies and murder weapons from the Thames
and its banks.

Sgt Spurgeon has recovered 36 bodies during his six-year river stint. But he's
rescued several more, including people trying to commit suicide. "It's tough
trying to rescue someone who wants to be left to drown, " he said.

"Sometimes it can be a real struggle and we have to deal with drugged-up
mentally ill people who are trying to kill themselves."

Sometimes their job is heartbreaking. PC Robin Locker had to pull out a
two-year-old boy who'd drowned in a Thames-linked canal after wriggling through
a gap in a fence.

He said: "We have to recover a lot of bodies so you learn to detach yourself
emotionally. But when it's a tiny child of two it's hard to take. I still have
horrible flashbacks to that day."

Another of their duties involves raiding vessels for drugs and dealing with
brawls on party boats.

Earlier this year they stopped a Caribbean cargo ship near the Thames barrier
and seized GBP 150,000 of cannabis attached to its hull. They also teamed up
with Met offi cers for a drugs raid on a waterfront café in Paddington.

Sgt Spurgeon, who was involved in the bust, said: "I think people get the
impression that we just chug along the river stopping boats randomly because
we've nothing else to do.

"But that's far from the case. There's a lot of hard work involved in this unit
and a lot of important jobs to do to protect the public."

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THIN BLUE LINE: PC Robin Locker of the Marine Support Unit patrols the
Thames. As well as protecting the capital from terrorism, the unit practises
river rescues, below, and checks up on pleasure riders, bottom right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 13, 2009 Monday

Security experts warn against playing down danger of terror attacks in Germany

LENGTH: 550 words


Text of report by right-of-centre German newspaper Die Welt website on 11 July

["Guest Commentary" by Peter Neumann, head of the International Centre for the
Study of Radicalization and Political Violence at King's College London, and CDU
Official Friedbert Pflueger, honorary professor of International Politics in
Berlin: "Warnings of Terror Attacks in Germany - Plausible Speculation"]

The Federal Interior Ministry has warned of an Al-Qa'idah terror attack in our
country. It noticed with concern the travel movements between Germany and
terrorist camps in Pakistan as well as the increasing number of German-language
threat messages, the ministry reported. Does this help raise awareness of the
threat? On the contrary, some commentators - such as Heribert Prantl in the
Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper - criticize the "irresponsible speculation and
guesswork" of the "federal scaremonger ministry."

It is true that there is no evidence of a concrete terror attack to be committed
any time soon. But is that reassuring enough? Four and five years, respectively,
after the terror attacks on London and Madrid the terror warnings must be taken
seriously also because one has to admit that, from the terrorists' point of
view, an attack prior to the Bundestag [lower chamber of the German Parliament]
election seems plausible: besides, in our country it would be seen in connection
with the Bundeswehr [German Federal Armed Forces] Afghanistan mission. This is
precisely why Al-Qa'idah is apparently focusing on Germany: it has recognized
that German support for the engagement in the Hindu Kush has become brittle. The
situation was similar in Madrid in 2004, three days ahead of the Spanish
parliamentary election. According to an Al-Qa'idah strategy paper that was found
on the Internet later, Spain had been regarded then as the "weakest link" in the
Iraq coalition. In jihad circles, the attacks, which seemingly led to a change
of government and thus to the withdrawal of Spanish forces from Iraq, are still
praised as Al-Qa'idah's most successful operation.

In the case of Afghanistan, Germany is the weakest link, and parliamentary
elections will be held in our country soon. The SPD [Social Democratic Party of
Germany], which is in charge of the Foreign Ministry, backs the mission, but it
is evident that among the Social Democrats, and not just there, the Hindu Kush
mission has come under criticism. In the view of Al-Qa'idah, public pressure
resulting from an attack could force politicians to give in.

Germany must not be susceptible to blackmail. Therefore, the awareness of the
dangerous situation must be sharpened. Playing down the threat could lead to an
overreaction among the people in the case of an attack. Hence, objective
information about real dangers does not create panic but helps prevent it. It
contributes to maintaining the distinction in our country between the minority
of militant Islamists and the majority of peace-loving Muslims.

Peter Neumann is director of the International Centre for the Study of
Radicalization and Political Violence at King's College London. Friedbert
Pflueger is honorary professor of International Politics in Berlin and member of
the CDU [Christian Democratic Union] Federal Executive Board.

Source: Die Welt website, Berlin, in German 11 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                              July 13, 2009 Monday

Terror teen locked up after attack

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 232 words


A 16-year-old boy, who terrorised people living in an estate, will spend three
months in a young offenders institution.

The teenager, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, was charged with
racially aggravated common assault and criminal damage to a motor vehicle
following incidents on Leicester's Northfields Estate in March this year.

Police, who have just released details of the case, said the boy appeared at
Leicester Youth Court on Friday, July 3. He was sentenced to a detention and
training order, which was effective immediately.

It means he will spend three months in custody in a young offenders institution
and a further three months in the community under the supervision of the youth
offending team.

Pc Josh Harrison, neighbourhood officer for Northfields and Tailby, said: "This
sentence is the result of work carried out by local police officers who are
committed to making this area a safer and friendlier place to live by targeting
those who seek to intimidate and behave violently towards others.

"It is hoped that this will send a clear message to others that this behaviour
will not be tolerated.

"We will continue to work with our partners from local housing and Leicester
anti-social behaviour unit to tackle other known offenders on this estate to
reduce crimes of this nature and support vulnerable members of the community who
are suffering from this type of crime."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2009 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                              July 13, 2009 Monday

Terror teen locked up after attack

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 232 words


A 16-year-old boy, who terrorised people living in an estate, will spend three
months in a young offenders institution.

The teenager, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, was charged with
racially aggravated common assault and criminal damage to a motor vehicle
following incidents on Leicester's Northfields Estate in March this year.

Police, who have just released details of the case, said the boy appeared at
Leicester Youth Court on Friday, July 3. He was sentenced to a detention and
training order, which was effective immediately.

It means he will spend three months in custody in a young offenders institution
and a further three months in the community under the supervision of the youth
offending team.

Pc Josh Harrison, neighbourhood officer for Northfields and Tailby, said: "This
sentence is the result of work carried out by local police officers who are
committed to making this area a safer and friendlier place to live by targeting
those who seek to intimidate and behave violently towards others.

"It is hoped that this will send a clear message to others that this behaviour
will not be tolerated.

"We will continue to work with our partners from local housing and Leicester
anti-social behaviour unit to tackle other known offenders on this estate to
reduce crimes of this nature and support vulnerable members of the community who
are suffering from this type of crime."

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2009 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 13, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Salmond 'exploited' airport terror attack;
First Minister denies claims by ex-police chief

BYLINE: Lorraine Davidson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 665 words


The former head of counter-terrorism at the Metropolitan Police has criticised
Alex Salmond's behaviour after the terror attack on Glasgow Airport, claiming
that 48 hours of vital police time was spent negotiating to stop a turf war
developing between Edinburgh and London.

Andy Hayman told The Times last night that he was unable to speak to his senior
officers as often as he wanted because they were busy trying to persuade the
First Minister to agree that the investigation should be handled by London.

"The first two days after a terrorist attack is the most important time for
collecting evidence and during that time my most senior person was involved in
negotiating over handing over the investigation," Mr Hayman said yesterday.

"Why were we even having such a discussion when it was abundantly clear to
everyone that this was an international incident which could not be dealt with
locally?" Jurisdiction for the investigation passed to the authorities in London
two days after the attack on the airport on June 30, 2007 after Elish Angiolini,
the Lord Advocate, gave her authorisation.

Mr Hayman described discussions with Mr Salmond, Ms Angiolini and Kenny
MacAskill, the Justice Secretary, as intensely frustrating. "I couldn't speak to
my senior officer as often as I would have liked because he was locked in these
political discussions and it took us two days to get a grip of the investigation
as a result."

Opposition parties demanded yesterday that the First Minister explain the
allegations by Mr Hayman, who also touches on the episode in his book The
Terrorist Hunters.

"It is shameful that the First Minister of Scotland should behave in such a
disgraceful manner, trying to exploit an incident on the scale of the Glasgow
Airport attack for his own personal gain," Ian Gray, the Scots Labour leader,
said. "While Strathclyde Police behaved in an exemplary manner Alex Salmond let
Scotland down."

David Mundell, the Shadow Scottish Secretary, said that the reports demonstrated
the need for a new relationship between the Scottish government and Westminster.
"It is further evidence of the appalling relationship between between the
Scottish and UK governments," he said. "Mr Salmond always tries to portray the
fault as being with London, but if this is true, it is clear evidence of his
culpability," he added.

In The Terrorist Hunters, Mr Hay-maclaims politicians are guilty of "hissy fits"
and "some amazing playground antics". He told The Times: "Mr Salmond is no
different."

A spokesman for the First Minister denied the claims, saying that neither Mr
Salmond nor Mr MacAskill had any contact or dealings with Mr Hayman and were not
involved in any of the judicial proceedings.

He added: "The Scottish govern-menis fully committed to the fight against
terrorism and will work with jurisdictions, south of the Border and elsewhere,
to ensure the safety and security of ordinary citizens and the prosecution of
the perpetrators of terrorist acts wherever they may be."

John Neilson, the Assistant Chief Constable of Strathclyde Police, who was
headed the investigation into the attack, denied that politicians had influenced
the inquiry. "I don't know of any political interference that impacted on the
investigation," he said.

A spokesman for the Crown Office also dismissed Mr Hayman's version of events,
saying: "This bears absolutely no resemblance to events in Scotland that
weekend.

"The Lord Advocate and her team worked tirelessly with the support of the
Scottish ministers over the course of the weekend on June 29 and 30 to ensure
that the complex legal issue of jurisdiction was considered quickly but
authoritatively."

Mr Hayman also claimed that a turf war threatened to break out after the arrests
of suspects Bilal Abdullah and Kafeel Ahmed. Because the men were arrested in
Glasgow they could have been tried under Scots law but they were tried in London
where they had earlier tried to bomb a nightclub.

Andy Hayman claims time was wasted trying to stop turf war

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Spokesmen for Mr Salmond and Ms Angiolini, below, denied claims of
events in the 48 hours after the terror attack
PHOTOGRAPHS: UNS, ANDREW COWAN & PETER NICHOLLS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 13, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Salmond 'exploited' airport terror attack;
IN THE NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 62 words


Andy Hayman, the former head of counter-terrorism at Scotland Yard, criticised
Alex Salmond's behaviour after the terror attack on Glasgow Airport, claiming
that 48 hours of vital police time was spent negotiating to stop a turf war
between Edinburgh and London. Mr Hayman told The Times that he was unable to
speak to his senior officers as often as he wanted. News, page 3

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday

Egyptian weekly says terrorists planned attacks on ships sailing in Suez Canal

LENGTH: 860 words


[Unattributed report: "Egyptian police arrest members of an organization
consisting of 25 Egyptians and a Palestinian seeking to launch electronic
attacks."]

Cairo al-Sha'b WWW-Text in Arabic, weekly newspaper, affiliated with the
opposition Labour Party of Egypt, on 13 July 2009, carries an unattributed
1,000-word report entitled: "the Egyptian police arrest members of an
organization consisting of 25 Egyptians and a Palestinian, who were planning to
launch electronic attacks."

The report says that the Egyptian authorities disclosed on Thursday, 09 July
2009, that they have discovered an organization which they said sponsored the
ideology of "Takfir and Jihad."

The authorities said that the organization consisted of 25 Egyptians and a
Palestinian. Members of the organization, according to the Egyptian interior
ministry, were planning to carry out attacks by using "electronic circuits based
on infra-red rays against vital targets, such as Western ships when they sail
across the Suez Canal as well as against oil pipelines."

The Egyptian interior ministry said in a statement that its monitoring
operations in the last months have "confirmed that the members of the
organization were maintaining direct contacts via the Internet with persons and
organizations abroad," adding: "some members of this organization, such as
engineers and technicians, have managed to manufacture electronic detonation
circuits by using infra-red rays and have also succeeded in upgrading the use of
electronic timers and remote detonation circuits by using cellular phones, the
remainders of weapons used in earlier wars in desert areas, and the equipment of
the Global Positioning System [GPS] for locating the sites, and that they have
managed to smuggle the equipment from abroad to continue their field
experiments."

The interior ministry statement said that as part of the intensive security
efforts to abort the attempts made by foreign terrorist organizations to lure
terrorist elements in the country or to send in terrorists from abroad to Egypt,
it was possible to "discover a terrorist cell that sponsors the ideology of
Takfir and Jihad consisting of 25 Egyptians and the Palestinian, Tamir Muhammad
Musa, and to arrest them."

Interior ministry sources said that the confessions of the person who was
described by the security services as the leader of the cell, Muhammzad Fahim
Husayn, and persons of his group, who were residing in the governorates of
Cairo, Alexandria and al-Daqhaliyah, revealed that they were "maintaining
contacts via the Internet with other elements and cells linked with Al-Qa'idah
Organization to discuss the operations and the principles sponsored by the
organization."

The sources explained that "views were exchanged on upgraded terrorist ideas and
techniques to support what was described as Jihadist actions abroad,
particularly as regards the innovation of new methods for remote detonation
which were difficult to monitor as well as fixing booby traps in cars to be used
on behalf of the al-Wala and al-Bara brigades for Supporting the Iraqi
resistance."

According to the interior ministry's statement, the confessions of the members
of this cell revealed that the members of the cell "opened channels of
communications with the Palestinian Army of Islam Organization, which is
associated with the ideology and actions of the Al-Qa'idah Organiztion through a
Palestinian national, Tamir Muhammad Musa Abu-Jazar, who was arrested."

The statement said that Abu-Jazar "facilitated the infiltration of a leading
member of this cell, Faraj Radwan Hammad, into the Gaza Strip early this year,
and that Hammad met with personnel of the aforementioned Army of Islam who
assigned him to help them in what was described as Jihad operations for the sake
of Palestine.

The statement points out that these contacts and coordination kept pace with the
plans of the members of the cell to carry out explosions in Egypt.

It added that some of the targets chosen for terrorist operations were "foreign
ships sailing in the Suez Canal and oil pipelines."

The statement pointed out that during the search operations, "a firearm,
electric and electronic circuits and equipment, nine diving suites, a coloured
Laser printer, and a quantity of agricultural fertilizers consisting of uria and
potassium, which could be used as raw material for the manufacture of explosive
charges, were seized."

It explained that the result of the criminal laboratory tests conducted on the
seized firearm "revealed that it was the same type of weapon used in the attempt
at the armed robbery of a jewellery store in the al-Zaytun area in northern
Cairo on 28 May 2008," adding: "the attempt at the armed robbery led to the
death of the owner of the store, Makram Azar, and four workers of the store and
that the criminals fled out of fear that they might be arrested without really
being able to embezzle anything from the store."

It added that the members of the cell confessed that they had "received
donations from abroad via the Internet under the guise of supporting the Islamic
charity work so as to finance their activities."

Source: Al-Sha'b, Cairo, in Arabic 13 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 14, 2009 Tuesday

Moroccan paper reports on fear of terror attacks using booby-trapped cars

LENGTH: 464 words


Excerpt from report by Moroccan privately-owned newspaper Assabah website on 14
July

Informed sources do not rule out that security and gendarmerie services will
re-open the files of stolen cars in Tetouan and Tangiers against the backdrop of
the dismantling of the Ceuta terrorist cell that intended to carry out
booby-trapped car attacks.

The same sources say that several security services are currently looking into
the cases of stolen cars that remain a puzzle and have not led to the thieves
being brought to justice despite police investigations. In fact stolen cars have
become a danger now that terrorist cells intend to use them to carry out
attacks.

The same sources affirm that all states, including Morocco, have received
reports from the international police [Interpol] pointing out that the
increasing number of stolen cars is considered as a warning that acts of
terrorism are looming. In fact Interpol is in possession of archives containing
reports about efforts by the terrorist organizations, foremost of which
Al-Qa'idah in the Land of the Islamic Maghreb, to get hold of stolen cars to
place bombs in them before using them to implement their plans.

The sources underline that the international car stealing networks have realized
that terrorists are keen to get hold of such cars, and they have managed to
smuggle in dozens of them. This was done in collusion with car rental companies
and car registration centres.

[Passage omitted].

The same sources expect the security investigations to uncover the scope of
collusion of certain quarters in this activity, and the dangerous situation in
Ceuta Gate. In fact many incidents have shown the low level of control at the
Ceuta Gate where medium-sized lorries have forcibly crossed Moroccan and Spanish
checkpoints

[Passage omitted].

The same sources stress that cooperation between the Spanish and Moroccan
security services could well lead to the uncovering of several indications about
relations between the car stealing networks and terrorist groups. The Spanish
security services now and again carry out investigations to ascertain the
destination and cargo capacity of vehicles, all the more so since the Ceuta Gate
has now become a daily nightmare for the police and gendarmerie services as a
result of the arrival of a large number of immigrant smugglers and brokers who
live abroad, and who, because of strict controls, forcibly cross security
checkpoints.

The same sources indicate that occupied Ceuta is not just a crossing point for
smuggled goods but an area of organized smuggling. Terrorists are behind very
large smuggling operations which bring them large amounts of money. They are
taking advantage of the police turning a blind eye on small smugglers.

Source: Assabah website, Casablanca, in Arabic 14 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            July 15, 2009 Wednesday

Russian radiation troops ready to deter terrorist attack - Defence Ministry

LENGTH: 250 words


Text of report in English by corporate-owned Russian military news agency
Interfax-AVN website

Moscow, 13 July: The Russian Radiation, Chemical and Biological Defence Troops
are 100 per cent equipped with modern armaments and protective means, forces
commander Col Yevgeniy Starkov said.

"Five brigades and separate units of the Radiation, Chemical and Biological
Defence Troops, including an experimental air wing of the General Staff, are
deployed in the Moscow and Urals military districts, where the main facilities
for storing and disposing of chemical weapons are located. These units are 100
per cent equipped with modern armaments and protective measures and are fully
prepared to deter a possible attack or a terrorist act using chemical weapons,"
Starkov told Interfax-AVN.

Another two brigades of the forces are under formation. "One was formed by June
1, and the other will be ready by December 1," he said.

About 300 officers of the forces will be dismissed in the course of the armed
forces' reform, Starkov said.

"Eighty per cent of them wish to continue military service, so we are trying to
keep the best officers," he said.

Russia stores chemical weapons in five regions of central Russia: Bryansk,
Kirov, Kurgan and Penza regions and Udmurtia.

Chemical munitions, equipment and tanks are stored in well-protected depots. No
accidents in the storage and disposal of chemical weapons took place in 2008.

Source: Interfax-AVN military news agency website, Moscow, in English 0820 gmt
13 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Cornish Guardian

                                 July 15, 2009

Cinema vulnerable to terrorist threat?;
Plans for a new cinema being built in Cornwall have been assessed by police to
see if the building would be vulnerable to a terrorist attack.

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 350 words


The plans for the new cinema in Newquay were passed by Devon and Cornwall Police
to the force's counter terrorist office for assessment.

Referring plans for crowded places to the counter terrorist office has been
advised by the Government as best practice.

In a report written by the counter terrorist office which is attached to the
planning application it states: "There is NO terrorism threat to Newquay that we
are currently aware of. However the threat to the country is SEVERE which means
an attack is highly likely somewhere."

The office states that it passed the application through its matrix system used
to assess plans and the cinema plans do not get past the first stage.

It states: "All that means is that it is not a priority for us and would not get
a security survey. In other words there are more attractive targets than this
one. It does not say that something won't happen, just that the likelihood is
low.

"Having said all that Newquay and its night-time economy is an attractive
target, and the location of the new build is right behind one of Newquay's main
pubs. Therefore if hostile reconnaissance were to be carried out in this area,
the cinema would be noted."

The report then goes on to highlight concerns regarding glass, the overhang of
the building, the entrance and recycling skips.

When asked whether it was now standard procedure to refer planning applications
to the counter terrorist office Devon and Cornwall Police said: "It is not
mandatory but it is good practice, it is unlikely that any place in Cornwall
would be affected."

The police said that there was no additional cost involved in referring
applications to the counter terrorist office for assessment.

A spokesman said: "The matrix has been created following a government review
which looked at the prevention of terrorism - it is applied to developments
which will create crowded places.

"While it was applied to the Newquay cinema for good practice the development
did not qualify for further consideration. The guidelines are more suited for
developments such as a large shopping mall in the middle of London."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 59


                        Copyright 2009 Cornish Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      July 15, 2009 Wednesday 1:51 PM BST

POLICEMAN RELIVES LITTER ROW ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Chris Greenwood, Press Association Crime Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 835 words


A police officer described today how he was attacked by a mob after asking a
schoolgirl to pick up a burger wrapper.

Pc Anthony Smith was surrounded by up to 40 people after confronting the
teenager in a shopping precinct in Croydon, south London.

The town's Crown Court heard how the 15-year-old exploded into a frenzy of
violence and screamed abuse as Pc Smith tried to speak to her friend.

The beat officer told a jury he was suddenly grabbed by the throat from behind
and pulled to the ground before being kicked and stamped on.

He was targeted by members of the crowd as the girl grappled with his colleague,
Pc Perry Lathwood, before repeatedly punching him in the face.

The teenager then jumped on the second officer's back and bit his shoulder,
inflicting a wound through his protective vest, the court heard.

The girl, who cannot be named because of her age, and two men went on trial
today accused of violent disorder. They all deny the offence.

Mr Smith relived the terrifying ordeal in court as he described how a routine
conversation suddenly spiralled out of control.

He said: ``Perry shouted out she had bitten him. She needed to be arrested. I
went over to try and arrest her and took hold of her arms.

``Her arms were swinging wildly in front of me. At this point I was held from
behind and I felt some people were kicking me on the back and stamping on me.

``I felt arms around my throat, I was dragged to the ground. I could not see
anything. I had someone's arm around my throat and I was trying to get out of
their grip.

``In a matter of seconds a bigger crowd had built up. It felt like someone a lot
bigger. It was a member of the public, not one of her friends.

``There was a group of people. Once I was on the ground all I could see was the
feet of people trying to stamp on me. I was trying to protect myself as best I
could.

``Luckily I managed to get back to my feet. I had lost my cap and my radio but I
had not drawn my baton or my CS gas. The first thing I tried to do was locate Pc
Lathwood - we had been separated.''

The attack took place in the busy North End shopping area of Croydon shortly
after 3pm on July 16 last year.

CCTV footage capturing part of the incident, a large crowd and several police
officers arriving at the scene was shown to the jury.

Prosecutor Martin Goudie said the reinforcements were summoned by Pc Lathwood
when he pressed the emergency button on his police radio.

Witnesses told police that the 15-year-old girl tried to strangle the officer
and he hit her across the back of her legs with his baton.

The teenage suspect was only subdued and handcuffed after the officer sprayed CS
gas in her face.

Opening the case today, Mr Goudie said the two officers confronted a group of up
to six schoolgirls on a bench outside Burger King.

They asked one of them to pick up a paper wrapper which had been dropped on the
floor in front of them.

She did so, the court heard, but as they walked away it was thrown on the ground
again and the officers threatened her with a fixed penalty notice.

Mr Goudie said the officers tried to move the girl away from the group but the
15-year-old, on whose lap she was sitting, held her back.

He said: ``Her intervention led to the officers to try and arrest her and as
they did she became louder and more violent.

``It was a busy time of the afternoon and a large crowd gathered. Many of them
became involved in an aggressive manner, which including assaulting the
officers.

``The officers were so concerned by the actions of the crowd that they pressed
the emergency alert buttons on their radios and summoned help.

``A significant number of officers attended and were also forced to draw their
batons and Pc Lathwood used CS gas spray on the first defendant.

``The officers both suffered primarily minor injuries from the incident,
although because of its nature they were in shock.''

Pc Smith suffered bruising to his knee and head as well as cuts to his hands,
the court was told.

Pc Lathwood suffered a bite to his shoulder as well as bruising to his head,
arms and legs. A police doctor declared him unfit for duty.

The prosecutor said the two accused men, Wayne Elliston, 34, of Wynton Gardens,
Croydon, and Harold Hill, 38, of Clifton Road, Croydon, both admit being at the
scene.

They were arrested the next day after making a complaint at Croydon police
station hours after the attack about the behaviour of the two officers.

Elliston admitted talking to the officers and Hill claimed to have been trying
to control the teenage girl, the court heard. Both deny any violence.

The attack was witnessed by a large number of shoppers and employees at nearby
stores including Woolworths and Vision Express.

One shopper, Jamie Pyatt, told police the teenager went ``berserk'' and he
dialled 999 because he was concerned for their safety.

One Woolworths employee described the crowd as ``hostile and like animals'' as
others filmed the incident on their phones.

The trial is expected to last four weeks. Pc Lathwood is expected to give
evidence on Friday.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 16, 2009 Thursday

Execution of 13 for terror attacks reveals Iran's next move: intimidation

LENGTH: 927 words

ABSTRACT

Hanging of Baluch rebels sends stark message to opponents and reasserts regime's
crumbling legitimacy, say analysts

FULL TEXT

It's a long way from Tehran to Zahedan, in Iran's remote south-east, but the
this week sent out a chilling message about the readiness of the Islamic
Republic to act ruthlessly to defend its core interests.

On the face of it, there was no link between the mass execution and last month's
disputed presidential election, in which Mahmoud Ahmadinejad won a second term.
But these and other recent judicial killings may be designed to intimidate at a
time of unprecedented unrest and uncertainty about Iran's future.

The 13 men who mounted the gallows early on Tuesday morning were not supporters
of Mir Hossein Mousavi, officially defeated by Ahmadinejad, but members of
Jundullah (Soldiers of God), a small Sunni rebel group. The worst of its attacks
was the suicide bombing of a Shia mosque in May, which killed 25 people in
Zahedan, the capital of Sistan-Baluchestan province, which has a Sunni majority.

Jundullah claims to be fighting for the rights of Iran's Baluch minority but is
often linked by the regime in Tehran to al-Qaida, and to the west. It has been
blamed for drug smuggling, kidnapping and attacks on civilians and revolutionary
guards and appears to be based across the border in Pakistani Baluchistan.
Iranian media quoted one of the condemned men as "confessing" that the group was
trained and financed by "the US and Zionists".

The hangings were to have beenin a public park but in the end took place inside
a prison compound. A 14th man, the brother of the group's leader, Abdulmalik
Rigi, was given a brief stay of execution - but only to allow him to undergo
further questioning.

The charges, in the inimitably stark language of Iranian Islamic justice,
included moharebeh - "enmity against God" as well as being "corrupt on earth,
killing innocent people and taking hostages while carrying firearms."

Capital punishment is common in Iran. It is second only to China in the number
of executions carried out each year (and leads the world in executing
juveniles). Tehran regularly ignores calls by Amnesty International and other
human rights groups to desist. Late last month, 20 drug traffickers were hanged
en masse in Karaj, west of Tehran. In all, at least 177 people have been
executed so far this year, compared to 246 in 2008.

Analysts believe this spate of executions is meant to assert the regime's
authority amid the worst unrest Iran has seen since the 1979 revolution.
Official figures say 20 people have been killed since polling day on 12 June,
though unofficial estimates put it at between 60 and 100.

Still, forecasts of a Tiananmen-style crackdown have not materialised, with the
authorities apparently understanding that mass bloodshed only fuels popular
anger. But intimidation - the creation of a Saddam-style "republic of fear"- is
a different matter.

It is a central theme of the regime's narrative that the post-election trouble
has been fomented by foreigners, with Britain and the BBC (whose new Farsi TV
service is especially disliked) singled out for blame. It is a measure of how
bad things look from Tehran that Mohsen Rezaei, the former commander of the
revolutionary guard - and, alongside Ahmadinejad, the other conservative
presidential candidate - warned on Monday that the republic was in danger of
collapse. "The US and Israel plotted this disintegration to weaken Iran and make
it surrender through sanctions or attack," Rezaei said.

Iranian state media also routinely accuse western governments of backing
terrorists. Usually the subject of such accusations is the banned Peoples
Mojahedin, supported by Iraq during the Saddam Hussein years. Jundullah is
presented as another example: "Clear confessions made by the defendants show
that they and their commander are directly supported by the US and receive
military, educational and financial aid from the USA," local TV reported.

The interior minister, Sadegh Mahsouli, - an Ahmadinejad trusty - had no
hesitation in blaming "Americans and Israelis, not Sunnis or Shias" for the
Zahedan mosque bombing.

Claims by American journalist  and others about CIA support for Iranian Kurds,
Arabs - and Baluchs - have made a far stronger impression in Tehran than
repeated denials from Washington. In a country where only half the 70 million
population are Persian, anything that is perceived to encourage ethnic unrest or
separatism is deeply suspect. No wonder there was fury when Rigi, Jundullah's
leader, was interviewed on the (government-run) Voice of America in 2007 and
described as the leader of a "popular resistance movement".

Barack Obama, "reaching out" to Tehran at least before the election, has not
repudiated a reported Bush administration covert programme to destabilise Iran,
although as it was supposed to be secret it is possible he may have done so
without announcing the change.

The incidents of recent weeks are reminiscent of a similar outbreak of violence
before the last presidential poll in 2005. Then bombs hit Tehran and the
south-western city of Ahvaz, capital of Khuzestan, which has a big Arab
minority, killing eight and wounding dozens.

Against such a volatile backdrop, further angry claims of external meddling seem
likely from Iran.

"A government with domestic legitimacy problems will always seek a foreign
crisis," said Ali Ansari, an Iran expert at St Andrews University. "The ethnic
element will be utilised more as the government plays the security card."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       July 16, 2009 Thursday 6:37 PM BST

FLU PANDEMIC OUTSTRIPS TERROR ATTACK IN POLICE'S 'WORSE CASE' SCENARIO

BYLINE: Robert Dex, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 176 words


A flu pandemic could be more devastating than a terrorist attack, according to
one police officer.

Superintendent Steve Anderson from West Midlands Police said officers could be
forced to stop non-emergency work in a worse case scenario.

He told Channel 4 News: ``We have this thing called a community risk register,
which is in effect a who's who list of scary things that could happen in the
community.

``And we've assessed each of those based on actually how likely it is to happen,
and the impact on communities - and even as bad as terrorism, as bad as heat
wave, as bad as flooding can get, a worse case scenario is that pandemic flu
would be worse than any of those.''

The World Health Organisation (WHO) announced the swine flu outbreak had become
a pandemic on June 11.

A disease is classed as a pandemic when it reaches global epidemic proportions,
and where the microbe infects and causes serious illness in humans, where humans
do not have immunity against the virus, and where the virus spreads easily from
person-to-person and survives within humans.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                              July 17, 2009 Friday

Pandemic  worse Than Terrorist Attack'

SECTION: A; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 139 words


A FLU pandemic could be more devastating than a terrorist attack, according to
one police officer.

Superintendent Steve Anderson from West Midlands Police said officers could be
forced to stop non-emergency work in a worse-case scenario.

He said: "We have this thing called a community risk register, which is in
effect a who's who list of scary things that could happen in the community.

"And we've assessed each of those based on actually how likely it is to happen,
and the impact on communities   and even as bad as terrorism, as bad as heat
wave, as bad as flooding can get, a worse-case scenario is that pandemic flu
would be worse than any of those."

The World Health Organisation (WHO) announced the swine flu outbreak had become
a pandemic on June 11.

A disease is classed as a pandemic when it reaches global epidemic proportions.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 17, 2009 Friday 4:48 PM BST

UNITED QUIT INDONESIA IN WAKE OF TERROR ATTACK TO 'SAFEGUARD' TEAM

BYLINE: Press Association Reporters

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1227 words


Manchester United were today forced to cancel a trip to Indonesia to
``safeguard'' the team after terrorists targeted the hotel players were to stay
in.

At least nine people were killed and 50 injured in the attacks on two luxury
hotels in Jakarta.

The explosions blew out windows and scattered debris and glass across the
streets.

Disappointed fans were tonight cancelling flights and hotel bookings.

South Jakarta police Colonel Firman Bundi said four of the dead were foreigners
but the Foreign Office said it had no indication of any British casualties.

One of the attacks was on the Ritz-Carlton where United were due to stay for
four nights from tomorrow.

The majority of fans who travelled from the UK to follow the team will still be
in Kuala Lumpur, according to Ralph Mortimer, secretary of the Greater London
branch of the supporters' club.

``A group of about 20 went from here and they were planning to go to Jakarta on
Sunday ready for Monday's match and spend three days there,'' he said.

``There were a few thousand fans going out there from the UK, I suppose they'll
be cancelling their flights and rearranging their accommodation now.''

Tony Burlton, 50 from central London, is in Kuala Lumpur with his wife and two
friends.

He said: ``We've just rung up to cancel our flights. From what we've heard they
are trying to arrange another game to replace the one in Jakarta, we don't know
where it will be but it would be great if it was here.

``I'd say that any UK fans who were planning to watch the Jakarta match will
still be in Kuala Lumpur. The people we met last night in the bar were all
flying out with us on Sunday.

``The general feeling here is that the team weren't being targeted. If they
actually did attack the team it would have caused huge resentment among people
in this part of the world, they have a lot of Muslim supporters.''

One guest at the Ritz Carlton said the first he knew of the attack was when he
received a phone call from some colleagues telling him to get out of the hotel.

Geoffrey Head told BBC News: ``Then I noticed the TV wasn't working. So I looked
out of the window ... I could see down to ground level and I saw there was a lot
of broken glass. So I thought it was time to actually get out. There was no
evacuation warning or anything.

``I guess the surreal thing was going down in the elevator and walking through
the lobby and looking across to my left and noticing the actual cafe was
completely blown out.''

United manager Sir Alex Ferguson said it was ``very disappointing'' the club had
to cancel the game against an Indonesia Super League XI on Monday.

Speaking at a press conference this morning in Kuala Lumpur, Sir Alex said: ``We
got the news as we landed and it is very disappointing. I have never been to
Indonesia before and I know the Indonesian FA have worked very hard on this.

``It is terrible news but we have taken what I believe to be the right decision
in terms of safeguarding our players.''

United's chief executive David Gill said they met with officials from the
British High Commission before deciding to cancel their trip.

Mr Gill was asked if advice about potential trouble was given to the club prior
to the start of the pre-season trip to the Far East.

He said: ``We were aware of the situation but we spoke to the right people and
received the correct advice.''

Although there have been no terrorist problems in the country for a number of
years and presidential elections passed off peacefully recently, the other hotel
that was attacked, the Marriott, was badly damaged by a car bomb attack in 2003
that killed 12 people.

That coincided with a period when Islamic militants from the Jemaah Islamiyah
organisation were blamed for numerous attacks, including bombings on the island
of Bali in 2002 that killed 202 people.

In a statement, US President Barack Obama said he ``strongly condemned'' the
attacks in Jakarta.

He added: ``The American people stand by the Indonesian people in this difficult
time, and the US government stands ready to help the Indonesian government
respond to and recover from these outrageous attacks as a friend and partner.

``Indonesia has been steadfast in combating violent extremism, and has
successfully curbed terrorist activity within its borders. However, these
attacks make it clear that extremists remain committed to murdering innocent
men, women and children of any faith in all countries.''

One guest at the Ritz Carlton said the first he knew of the attack was when he
received a phone call from some colleagues telling him to get out of the hotel.

Geoffrey Head told BBC News: ``Then I noticed the TV wasn't working. So I looked
out of the window and saw... I could see down to ground level and I saw there
was a lot of broken glass. So I thought it was time to actually get out. There
was no evacuation warning or anything.

``I guess the surreal thing was going down in the elevator and walking through
the lobby and looking across to my left and noticing the actual cafe was
completely blown out.''

Guests from the Marriott hotel have been moved to the Marriott Mayflower
serviced apartments and the Oakwood apartments, a hotel worker said.

Staff at the apartments could not confirm if any British guests had been moved
to stay with them.

The majority of fans who travelled from the UK to follow the team will still be
in Kuala Lumpur ahead of tomorrow's match, said Ralph Mortimer, secretary of the
Greater London branch of the supporters' club.

``A group of about 20 went from here and they were planning to go to Jakarta on
Sunday ready for Monday's match and spend three days there.

``There were a few thousand fans going out there from the UK, I suppose they'll
be cancelling their flights and rearranging their accommodation now.''

Mr Mortimer's friend Tony Burlton, 50 from central London, is in Kuala Lumpur
with his wife and two friends.

He said: ``We've just rung up to cancel our flights. From what we've heard they
are trying to arrange another game to replace the one in Jakarta, we don't know
where it will be but it would be great if it was here.

``I'd say that any UK fans who were planning to watch the Jakarta match will
still be in Kuala Lumpur. The people we met last night in the bar were all
flying out with us on Sunday.

``The general feeling here is that the team weren't being targeted. If they
actually did attack the team it would have caused huge resentment among people
in this part of the world, they have a lot of Muslim supporters.''

He said the attack had not worried him and his travel companions and had the
game not been cancelled they would have still gone to the city.

``It is one of those things, it happens all over the world now.''

Foreign Secretary David Miliband said Britain stood in ``solidarity and sorrow''
with Indonesia.

``I strongly condemn today's bombings in Jakarta,'' he said.

``Our thoughts are with the families and friends of those killed and injured.

``These attacks remind us, yet again, of the threat people of all races and
religion face from violent extremists. Indonesia is world's largest Muslim
democracy.

``An attack on Indonesia is an attack on all decent people. The bombings are in
marked contrast to the wishes of the millions of Indonesians who voted
peacefully in last week's elections.

``We will continue to work with the Government of Indonesia to stop terrorism.
Today we stand in solidarity and sorrow.''

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                        July 17, 2009 Friday 8:21 AM BST

TERROR ATTACKS IN TROUBLED REGION

BYLINE: Robert Dex, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 324 words


Today's attacks are not the first time terrorists have struck in Indonesia.

One of the hotels affected, the Marriott, was targeted in a similar attack in
2003 that killed 12 people.

That blast followed the country's worst terrorist outrage when more than 200
people died in the Bali bomb blasts of October 2002.

The vast majority were foreign nationals - proof of Indonesia's appeal to
tourists and the terrorists' ability to plan attacks designed to kill
westerners.

Australia suffered the greatest number of casualties, with 88 Australian
nationals losing their lives but 26 Britons, nine Swedes, seven Americans, six
Germans and four Dutch nationals were also among the dead.

One bomb destroyed the Sari Club, a popular nightspot frequented by foreigners
in the resort of Kuta Beach, and began a fire that then engulfed another nearby
club.

The second bomb exploded in Denpasar, the capital of Bali, about 100 metres from
the US consulate in the city.

Tourist areas on the island were targeted again in 2005 when 20 people were
killed in a series of bombings.

The main suspects, then as now, were Jemaah Islamiyah.

Three members of the group, whose aim is the creation of a unified Islamic state
in Singapore, Malaysia , Indonesia and the Southern Philippines, were executed
for their part in the 2002 plot.

Bali sits on the religious faultline that runs through Indonesia. It is home to
a predominantly Hindu culture that has flourished in what is the world's most
populous Muslim nation.

The official advice on the Foreign Office website tells travellers to Indonesia
there is potential for ``politically motivated violence''.

It goes on to warn of ``a general threat from terrorism in Indonesia'' and says
indiscriminate attacks targeting foreign travellers cannot be ruled out.

More than 29,000 UK tourists visited Bali last year with those numbers dwarfed
by visitors from Australia and Japan - the two countries that provide the bulk
of foreign tourism.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 18, 2009 Saturday

Serbian analysts view chances of Kosovo Albanian "terrorist" attack on Belgrade

LENGTH: 473 words


Text of report by Serbian newspaper Glas javnosti website on 16 July

[Unattributed report: "Terrorists Eyeing Belgrade"]

Belgrade -- After two terrorist attacks in southern Serbia, which were carried
out in the municipalities of Bujanovac and Presevo, it is possible that Belgrade
could be one of the next targets, security experts maintain. According to them,
there are human resources and weaponry for launching an attack on the Serbian
capital, but whether or not this will happen depends on the terrorist
organizations' political evaluation!

Ninoslav Krstic, chairman of the Forum for Security and Democracy, insists that
whether there will be an attack on Belgrade depends on the political evaluation
and anticipated gain.

"At the moment, the Shiptars [Kosovo Albanians] are focusing on Pristina and all
of this has to do with that town. For the moment, it is not in their interest to
export the attacks out of southern Serbia, but they can do so and the competent
services should be aware of this," Krstic insists.

Former VBA [Military Security Agency] Director Momir Stojanovic says that an
attack is possible, but only "if the foreign element becomes involved."

"These are organizations that are not based in Kosovo. The competent services
should first establish who is behind the attacks and why and then consider what
measures to take. If it should turn out that the foreign element is involved in
this, then the entire state leadership should certainly make an in-depth
analysis, because in such a case, nobody is safe," Stojanovic insists.

Tomislav Kresovic, analyst with the Centre for Antiterrorism and Global Peace,
is also of the opinion that Albanians have an adequate infrastructure to carry
out an attack on Belgrade.

"If they do carry out such an attack, they will have paid help from the Serbian
gangland. This is a realistic threat and, unless the demands of Albanians in
Kosovo are met, the capital city will be at risk. Everything that has been
happening is part of a plan and comes at a time when we are fighting for
inclusion in the Schengen white list and is designed to blame Serbs for these
attacks and discredit the Serbian Government," Kresovic insists.

Former DB [State Security] chief Goran Petrovic, on the other hand, says that
the situation is serious, but that, in all probability, the Albanians have not
shown any great interest in Serbia proper.

"They are interested in Kosovo and parts of Macedonia and Montenegro. The key
question here is that the security services should establish who did this and
why instead of talking about terrorism off the top of their heads. Only when
this is established will it be possible to consider what steps to take,"
Petrovic says, adding that there will be more attacks of this kind, but "not
near Belgrade or in it."

Source: Glas javnosti website, Belgrade, in Serbian 16 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                             July 18, 2009 Saturday
                                Nuneaton Edition

TERROR ATTACK... Manchester United have [...]

SECTION: ; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 83 words


TERROR ATTACK... Manchester United have been forced to cancel a trip to
Indonesia to "safeguard" the team after terrorists targeted the hotel players
were to stay in.

At least nine people were killed and 50 injured in the attacks on two luxury
hotels in Jakarta.

The explosions blew out windows and scattered debris and glass across the
streets.

South Jakarta police Colonel Firman Bundi said four of the dead were foreigners
but the Foreign Office said it had no indication of any British casualties.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                      ITN

                             July 18, 2009 Saturday

Briton injured in Jakarta terror attacks

LENGTH: 91  words


A man of UK-US dual nationality was among the injured when terrorists attacked
two hotels in the Indonesian capital.

A man of UK-US dual nationality was among the injured when terrorists attacked
two hotels in the Indonesian capital, the Foreign Office has said.

The blasts at the neighbouring Ritz-Carlton and Marriott hotels killed at least
nine and wounded at least 50 on Friday.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We can confirm that one UK-US dual national
has been injured. We are in contact with the American Embassy who are leading on
his case."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 260


              Copyright 2009 Independent Television News Limited.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         Middlesbrough Evening Gazette

                             July 18, 2009 Saturday
                                  1st Edition

Taxi terror;
Attack mob did this

BYLINE: GARETH LIGHTFOOT

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 434 words


THREE teenagers involved in a terrifying drunken attack on a taxi on New Year's
Eve have narrowly avoided being locked up.

Michael Patrick Gallagher, Denham Harry Fernie-Mains and Thomas Dylan Zuk kicked
and smashed windows of the occupied cab with bottles.

Innocent taxi driver Liaqat Ali was "absolutely petrified" as a large group of
men ran to his vehicle on Wilson Street, Middlesbrough, surrounded it and
attacked it. He put his arms over his head to protect himself from glass as two
beer bottles flew past and hit the dashboard.

He begged "stop it stop it" and heard shouting and screaming as the men kicked
the taxi, said prosecutor Gale Gilchrist.

The three men sentenced in the Teesside Crown Court dock, all normally decent
young apprentices from good families, took part in the onslaught.

The Middlesbrough trio were trying to get at the four or five passengers in the
taxi after trouble in the town's Trader Jacks pub and a chase.

Fernie-Mains pulled at a door handle and kicked the car while Zuk and Gallagher
smashed windows. The three were detained at the scene by police. It cost Mr Ali
pounds 1,646 in repairs and he lost pounds 300 to pounds 400 income from the
year's busiest night.

"He feared for his safety," said Ms Gilchrist.

the Gallagher, 18, of Curthwaite, Fernie-Mains, 18, of Cambridge Road, and Zuk,
19, of Rochester Road, all pleaded guilty to affray. Only Zuk had a previous
conviction.

say Defence advocates said all three felt remorse and shame.

Peter Wishlade, for Gallagher, said men in the taxi had assaulted a member of
his group. His joinery apprenticeship ended when his boss died four days before
the fracas. "To he is ashamed of what he did that night is an understatement,"
he said.

Nigel Soppitt, representing Fernie-Mains, said his client described it as
"silliness, stupidity, no excuse for it".

He said custody would "devastate" Fernie-Mains and destroy his aspirations to be
an electrical engineer.

On behalf of Zuk, Stephen Constantine said: "This is a young man who's learned a
salutary lesson and curbed his drinking.

Judge Tony Briggs told the three: "This was an appalling performance and no
doubt absolutely terrifying for the unfortunate Mr Ali who was entirely
innocent."

He said they were all usually hard-working, respectable men who had impressed
employers and teachers.

"That comes as absolutely no comfort to the person on the receiving end of your
thrown bottles or violent behaviour."

He gave each a community order with 150 hours' unpaid work. Each must pay Mr Ali
pounds 1,123 compensation for damage and loss of earnings.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  DAMAGE: The group smashed the cab windows as the terrified driver
begged the mob to stop, Teesside Crown Court was told

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             July 18, 2009 Saturday

Sport - Football - United cancel match after hotel bombings;
English champions had been due to stay at targeted hotel. Ferguson expresses
shock at Indonesia terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 309 words


Manchester United called off a pre-season match in Indonesia yesterday after
bomb blasts hit the hotel that they had been due to stay in.

The squad arrived in Kuala Lumpur before today's scheduled clash against a
Malaysia XI and they had been due to face an Indonesia All-Star side on Monday.

At least nine people were killed and 50 injured in the attacks in Jakarta.

A United statement read: "Following the explosions in Jakarta - one of which was
at the hotel the team were due to stay in - and based on advice received, the
directors have informed the Indonesian FA that the club cannot fulfil the
fixture in Jakarta on the 2009 Asia tour."

Monday's match in Jakarta had been a 100,000 sell-out and the players and staff
had been due to stay in the city's Ritz-Carlton for four nights.

"We are working on a revised itinerary outside Indonesia with the promoters and
we will make a further announcement when these decisions have been made," the
statement added.

"We are deeply disappointed at not being able to visit Indonesia and thank the
Indonesian FA and our fans for their support. Our thoughts go to all those
affected by the blasts."

Wayne Rooney, Rio Ferdinand and Michael Owen were among a 22-man squad that
arrived in Kuala Lumpur on Thursday.

United manager Sir Alex Ferguson said: "It's a bit of a shock for all of us. We
just got news of this when we landed.

"I have never been to Indonesia before and I know the Indonesian FA have worked
very hard on this. There was no other solution as we had to safeguard our
players. So it's the correct decision."

Club captain Gary Neville said that the players were disappointed not to be
going to Indonesia.

After their scheduled game in Kuala Lumpur today, United continue their Far East
tour with a match against South Korea's FC Seoul on July 24 before taking on
Chinese side Hangzhou Greentown two days later.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                       July 18, 2009 Saturday 6:01 AM BST

UK-US NATIONAL INJURED IN TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Rosa Silverman, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 280 words


A man of UK-US dual nationality was among the injured when terrorists attacked
two hotels in the Indonesian capital, the Foreign Office said today.

The blasts at the neighbouring Ritz-Carlton and Marriott hotels yesterday killed
at least nine and wounded at least 50.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: ``We can confirm that one UK-US dual national
has been injured. We are in contact with the American Embassy who are leading on
his case.''

The explosions in Jakarta blew out windows and scattered debris and glass across
the streets.

Manchester United were forced to cancel a trip to the country to ``safeguard''
the team, who were due to stay at the Ritz-Carlton for four nights from tonight.
Disappointed fans were last night cancelling flights and hotel bookings.

United manager Sir Alex Ferguson said it was ``very disappointing'' the club had
to cancel the game against an Indonesia Super League XI on Monday.

Speaking at a press conference yesterday in Kuala Lumpur, Sir Alex said: ``We
got the news as we landed and it is very disappointing. I have never been to
Indonesia before and I know the Indonesian FA have worked very hard on this.

``It is terrible news but we have taken what I believe to be the right decision
in terms of safeguarding our players.''

Although there have been no terrorist problems in the country for a number of
years and presidential elections passed off peacefully recently, the Marriott
was badly damaged by a car bomb attack in 2003 that killed 12 people.

That coincided with a period when Islamic militants from the Jemaah Islamiyah
organisation were blamed for numerous attacks, including bombings on the island
of Bali in 2002 that killed 202 people.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             July 18, 2009 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MAN UTD AXE TRIP AS BOMBERS KILL 9;
Stars' hotel attacked by terrorists

BYLINE: NICK PARKER; NEIL CUSTIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 230 words


MANCHESTER United cancelled a pre-season trip to Indonesia yesterday after a
suicide bomb killed at least nine people at their luxury hotel a day before they
were due to check in.

Islamist terrorists unleashed horrifying carnage at Jakarta's Ritz-Carlton,
where the soccer stars were to stay, and at the JW Marriott.

Sir Alex Ferguson immediately pulled his squad out of the Indonesian leg of
their Far East tour. Forty players including Wayne Rooney, below, had agreed to
travel to the Indonesian capital despite Foreign Office warnings of a high risk
of terrorist attack.

Fergie said in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia: "We are obviously shocked. We only found
out when we landed."

A terrorist was filmed on CCTV wheeling a suitcase bomb into the Ritz-Carlton.

He vanished in a brilliant white flash as the blast obliterated the reception
area.

A second bomb exploded minutes later in the Marriott, followed by a third which
killed two people on a toll road.

A fourth device was found and defused in a laptop computer bag in a room on the
18th floor of the Marriott.

The terrorists, including one who is thought to be a woman, had checked in
posing as guests.

At least one Briton - named by local sources as Simon Louis - was believed to be
among scores of injured.

No group has claimed responsibility for the attack, but the al-Qaeda-linked
Jemmiah Islamiah are chief suspects.

n.parker@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Horror ... the bomb explodes
Easy target ... lobby before blast
Devastation ... cops survey scene of Ritz-Carlton blast

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 20, 2009 Monday

French radio says Malagasy authorities worried about upsurge of "terror" attacks

LENGTH: 288 words


Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 20 July

[Presenter] Three people died in one night this weekend in Antananarivo.
Malagasy authorities are worried about the upsurge of terror acts on the island.
One man was killed while handling a bomb in his vehicle while two security
agents of Radio Viva were shot dead.

In June, two bombs had exploded without claiming casualties while others had
been diffused on time. The security forces had arrested several people.

They are accusing groups close to the former president, Marc Ravalomanana. Let
us now listen to Gregoire Pourtier reporting from Antananarivo.

[Pourtier] The gendarmerie believes that several thousand small traditional
bombs are currently circulating in Madagascar. On Saturday night, not less than
three of them were activated. The first three were defused on time but the third
was not laid but exploded all the same as Col Frederic Rakotonandrasana
explains.

[Rakotonandrasana] Towards 2330 [local time] a bomb exploded in a vehicle [words
indistinct]. Those handling the bomb became its victims, one dead and two
injured.

[Pourtier] Several minutes later, an operation was conducted against Radio Viva
which belongs to Andry Rajoelina, the president of the High Transitional
Authority.

[Rakotonandrasana] There was an attack at around midnight. A group of
individuals which tried to enter not inside the radio premises but near it.

[Pourtier] Three deaths in one night, the death toll is high. The authorities
say they have the situation under control but want to reinforce the surveillance
systems. Residents in the capital are frankly not reassured.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 0430 gmt 20 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 20, 2009 Monday
                              Correction Appended

(Corr)French radio says Malagasy authorities worried about upsurge of "terror"
attacks

LENGTH: 340 words


(Correcting sentence in third paragraph "The first three were defused on time
but the third was not laid but exploded all the same as Col Frederic
Rakotonandrasana explains to read "The first two were defused on time but the
third was not laid but exploded all the same as Col Frederic Rakotonandrasana
explains)

Text of report by French state-funded public broadcaster Radio France
Internationale on 20 July

[Presenter] Three people died in one night this weekend in Antananarivo.
Malagasy authorities are worried about the upsurge of terror acts on the island.
One man was killed while handling a bomb in his vehicle while two security
agents of Radio Viva were shot dead.

In June, two bombs had exploded without claiming casualties while others had
been defused on time. The security forces had arrested several people.

They are accusing groups close to the former president, Marc Ravalomanana. Let
us now listen to Gregoire Pourtier reporting from Antananarivo.

[Pourtier] The gendarmerie believes that several thousand small traditional
bombs are currently circulating in Madagascar. On Saturday night, not less than
three of them were activated. The first two were defused on time but the third
was not laid but exploded all the same as Col Frederic Rakotonandrasana
explains.

[Rakotonandrasana] Towards 2330 [local time] a bomb exploded in a vehicle [words
indistinct]. Those handling the bomb became its victims, one dead and two
injured.

[Pourtier] Several minutes later, an operation was conducted against Radio Viva
which belongs to Andry Rajoelina, the president of the High Transitional
Authority.

[Rakotonandrasana] There was an attack at around midnight. A group of
individuals which tried to enter not inside the radio premises but near it.

[Pourtier] Three deaths in one night, the death toll is high. The authorities
say they have the situation under control but want to reinforce the surveillance
systems. Residents in the capital are frankly not reassured.

Source: Radio France Internationale, Paris, in French 0430 gmt 20 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 20, 2009



CORRECTION: (Correcting sentence in third paragraph "The first three were
defused on time but the third was not laid but exploded all the same as Col
Frederic Rakotonandrasana explains to read "The first two were defused on time
but the third was not laid but exploded all the same as Col Frederic
Rakotonandrasana explains)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              July 20, 2009 Monday

Britain downgrades al-Qaida terror attack alert level

LENGTH: 277 words

ABSTRACT

Officials reduce assessment of threat from 'severe' to 'substantial', its lowest
level since 9/11

FULL TEXT

The official assessment of the threat level of an al-Qaida terrorist attack on
Britain has been lowered from "severe" - where an attack is deemed highly likely
- to "substantial", where an attack is considered a strong possibility.

The decision to lower the official threat level follows a new assessment by MI5
and the joint terrorism analysis centre, based on intelligence gathered in
Britain and abroad on how close terrorist groups may be to staging an attack.

The designation of a "substantial" threat level is the lowest since 9/11. It
confirms that the swine flu pandemic is now a bigger threat to the life of the
nation than terrorism.

The home secretary, Alan Johnson, acknowledged that fact on Sunday, when he told
the BBC's Andrew Marr programme that swine flu came "above terrorism as a threat
to this country". He said the long-term preparations had involved the whole
"Cobra machinery", a reference to the Cabinet's emergency committe that handles
major disasters.

The decision reportedly follows an official assessment of Operation Pathway, one
of MI5's biggest counterterrorism campaigns, which led to the arrest of 11
Pakistani men in April. All those arrested were released without charge, and no
explosives or weapons were found.

The system of threat levels is made up of five stages. At "critical", an attack
is expected imminently. At "severe", an attack is regarded as highly likely. At
"substantial", an attack is a strong possibility. At "moderate" an attack is
possible but not likely. And at "low", an attack is deemed unlikely.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                              July 20, 2009 Monday
                                  Eire Edition

BRAVE RIRA GUN ATTACK VICTIM OPTS TO STAY PUT;
TERRORISM

BYLINE: VICTORIA MCMAHON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 180 words


THE Polish pizza delivery driver gunned down in the Massereene massacre has
decided to stay in the North.

In a dramatic change of heart the Domino's courier, known only as Marcin, 31,
has opted to remain in Antrim with his family where he came close to dying four
months ago.

The Polish father of one fought back from the brink of death after being hit by
six bullets when Real IRA gunmen opened fire at Massereene Barracks.

The killers attacked as soldiers collected pizzas from the gate as a treat just
hours before they were due to be deployed in Afghanistan.

Tragic squaddies Mark Quinsey, 23, and 21-yearold Patrick Azimkar, 21, were
killed in the outrage.

Marcin's partner Marta kept a bedside vigil as his condition slowly stabilised.

His family flew over from Poland to help look after the couple's baby boy then
aged just 16 months.

Maciek Bator, director of the Polish Association for Northern Ireland, said: "He
is not back at work yet because of his injuries.

"He's had numerous requests from the media to talk about it but he says he just
can't bear to talk about what happened."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCENE Massereene Barracks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday

'Ismail hurled grenades inside the railway station and I kept firing';
Terrorist who attacked Mumbai tells;
how gang staged the bloodbath

BYLINE: Dean Nelson and Jalees Andrabi in New Delhi

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 668  words


THE only surviving gunman from the terrorist gang that killed more than 160
people in Mumbai last November made a detailed courtroom confession yesterday
after he changed his plea to guilty.

Mohammed Ajmal Qasab, the clean-cut 21 year-old from Pakistan, who was seen by
millions on television prowling through Mumbai's main railway station with an
AK47 assault rifle, is likely to be sentenced to death. Government prosecutors,
senior police officials and Qasab's own lawyer said they were shocked by his
decision to change his plea.

In his eight-minute confession, he described how the 10 terrorist commandos left
Karachi by boat, hijacked a ship and murdered its crew, and how he and his
leader had shot dead the head of Mumbai's anti-terrorist squad. The  disclosures
will increase pressure on Pakistan to bring those who masterminded the attack to
court.

Most alarming for Pakistan is Qasab's allegation that he and nine other
terrorists were waved off on their boat from Karachi by Zaki ur Rahman Lakhvi,
the head of the al-Qaeda-allied Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) group, who is believed to
have links to elements within Pakistan's intelligence service. He was detained
after the attacks.

New Delhi has consistently claimed that the Mumbai plotters had support within
Pakistan's security services and that Islamabad has long nurtured groups like
LeT as part of a "proxy war'' against India.

Qasab's confession confirmed that the plot, which targeted commuters, guests at
the Taj Palace and Oberoi Hotels, and a Jewish centre, was planned and launched
from Pakistani soil.

He told the court: "From Karachi we took a big boat and, Abu Hamza, Abu Khasa
Jundail and Zaki Ur Rahman [Lakhvi] came to see us off.''

After spending the night on board the Al Hoseini, the gang, led by a man called
Murshid, set out to sea and began looking for another larger vessel.

At 4pm they boarded the Kuber. "There were five people [crew]. Amarjit Singh
Solanki comes forward

and says that he is the navigator and they take the remaining four people to Al
Hoseini,'' he said.

"Three days and four nights is what it took to reach India, at around 3.30pm on
26th November. Abu Ismail [a gang member] directed all of us to quietly sit in
the cabin and called Abu Akasha Fadullah [another gang member] and asked them to
take Amar Singh Solanki to them. Solanki understood that he was going to be
killed,'' he said. "Amar Singh Solanki was killed.''

As they approached Mumbai, Qasab and his fellow gunmen were each given a bag
containing an AK47, one hand-grenade, and six magazines. "Abu Ali and Abu Rehman
had 47 cartridges in a loose bag ... all were given mobiles and bottles of
water.''

Qasab then went on to describe the massacre at the railway station.

"Ismail hurled grenades and I kept on firing, there was firing from police,
Ismail was just behind me, he had

taken such a position that no one could see him. I kept firing,'' he said.
"Sometime later firing from police side stopped. We left station and used a
footbridge to reach Cama hospital.

"After coming out of the hospital compound, we saw a small stall and hid
ourselves. We saw a vehicle with a blue beacon and Abu Ismail threw two hand
grenades on the car. We hid ourselves there and as the vehicle came near,
started firing the car. I sustained injuries on the elbow and wrist and fell
down,'' he said.

The car was carrying Hemant Karkare, Mumbai's anti-terrorist police chief, and
two other senior officers. "Abu Ismail proceeded towards

the vehicle and shot at the people inside. He threw all the three people out of
the car and I sat along with him ... Abu Ismail started driving the Qualis,
firing simultaneously,'' Qasab said.

They drove towards the city's Metro Cinema, shooting at passers-by. "We reached
a barricade and Abu Ismail

got scared and started taking

a U-turn. One policeman came forward, pulled [me]

out of the car and snatched the AK47

"They started assaulting me. I fell down and fell unconscious. I opened my eyes
and found myself in a hospital,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday

National: Threat of terror attack in Britain reduced but still substantial

BYLINE: Alan Travis and Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 502 words


The decision to downgrade the official threat of an al-Qaida terrorist attack in
Britain from "severe" to "substantial" is unlikely to lead to any significant
changes in public security measures.

The home secretary, Alan Johnson, announcing the change yesterday, said there
remained a "real and serious threat" from terrorists and the public would see
little change in security measures.

The threat level set by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (Jtac), a unit
within MI5, means that a terrorist attack is no longer regarded as "highly
likely". The threat level is now put at one rung lower in the five-step "alert
ladder" where an attack is regarded as "a strong possibility".

The level is now the lowest since May 2005, when it was reduced just two months
before the 7 July bombings in London. But Whitehall's security and intelligence
budgets are set to more than triple from pre-9/11 levels to £3.5bn in 2010/11.

Security sources said yesterday's decision was taken on the basis of four key
factors: available intelligence, terrorist capability, terrorist intentions, and
the time-scale of a likely attack being launched.

The move reflects more intensive monitoring of suspects allowed by an increase
in resources - notably for MI5, whose staff will have increased from 1,800 in
2001 to more than 4,000 in 2011 - and a widespread view that al-Qaida's
influence is declining in Britain and the rest of Europe. It also reflects
greater effort devoted to disrupting extremist groups in Britain.

Jonathan Evans, the head of MI5, said earlier this year that the threat of an
immediate attack in the UK by extremists inspired by al-Qaida had diminished
owing to a string of successful prosecutions having had a "chilling" effect.

Evans painted a less alarming picture of the terrorist threat than have
ministers. But, he said, al-Qaida leaders still wanted to mount an attack, and
there were individuals in Britain able of doing so.

"Setting threat levels are difficult decisions to make and is under constant
review," said a security source yesterday.

Assessments are made on Jtac's "best judgment". Reducing the threat level from
"severe general" to "substantial" before the 7 July bombings, Jtac said there
was no single "group with both the current intent and the capability to attack
the UK". It was about to downgrade the level again on the morning of the failed
attacks of 21 July.

The threat level was first made public on 1 August 2006 when it was set at
"severe". It was raised to "critical" nine days later after the disclosure of
the transatlantic airlines plot; then downgraded a week later. The last time it
was at "critical" in June 2007 after the attack on Glasgow airport and the
failed car bombs in London.

The five levels apply in general terms to the whole country, not to a specific
target. They are: critical, an attack is expected imminently; severe, an attack
is highly likely; substantial, an attack is a strong possibility; moderate, an
attack is possible but not likely; low, an attack is unlikely.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Baby-faced killer confesses to Mumbai terror attack;
India

BYLINE: Rhys Blakely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 637 words


The lone terrorist gunman to survive the Mumbai attacks confessed to his role in
the atrocity yesterday, dramatically reversing months of denials - and possibly
paving the way for a thaw in relations between India and Pakistan.

Azam Amir Kasab, 21, rose to his feet moments before the 135th witness in the
case was to begin testifying.

"Sir, I plead guilty," he said.

The Pakistani national's confession, four months into his trial, drew gasps from
those present in the austere, bomb-proof Mumbai courtroom.

Dressed in a clean white kurta and with his hair neatly trimmed - a sharp
contrast to his first unkempt court appearances - Kasab described how he had
been recruited by an Islamist terrorism faction to become one of ten heavily
armed militants who sailed from Karachi, Pakistan, to launch a commando-style
raid on India's financial capital on November 26 last year. The attack lasted
for 60 hours and claimed 166 lives. His nine accomplices were killed by security
forces.

Kasab said he had decided to confess and face a possible death sentence in India
after learning that Pakistan intended to prosecute five men accused of being
linked to the attacks. "I have heard that Pakistan has now admitted I am
Pakistani. My wish is to end the trial and for you to punish me," he told the
judge. He had previously pleaded not guilty to 86 offences, including murder and
waging war against India, claiming that a confession had been beaten out of him.

Yesterday, however, he detailed how the Mumbai strike had been masterminded by
Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, a senior member of the Lashkar-eTaiba terrorist faction.

Mr Lakhvi was one of five Mumbai attack suspects arrested in Pakistan in
December. Their trial is expected to begin within days.

Kasab gave the court a chilling account of how he and an accomplice, Abu Ismail,
ran amok with an AK47 rifle at Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST), Mumbai's main
railway station and one of the world's busiest.

"I was firing and Abu was hurling hand grenades," he said, describing how the
pair killed more than 50 people. "I was in front of Abu, who had taken such a
position that no one could see him. I fired at a policeman, after which there
was no firing from the police side." He also admitted placing an 8kg bomb in a
taxi. It exploded near Mumbai airport, killing the driver and a passenger.

Kasab, who said he grew up in the poor town of Faridkot in Punjab, went on to
describe months of weapons training at terrorism camps in Pakistan. However, he
did not mention any links to the Pakistan Army - a possible blow to India's
claims that elements associated with the Pakistani state played a part.

The boyish Kasab, dubbed the "babyfaced killer" after being caught grinning on
CCTV during the attacks, now faces the possibility of death by hanging, under
laws that reserve execution for the "rarest of rare" cases.

Kasab's lawyer, Abbas Kazmi, a terrorism case veteran, had already admitted that
he faced a near-impossible task in defending his client, partly because of the
hundreds of witnesses gathered by the Mumbai police. Mr Kazmi had suggested that
his defence would rest on whether Kasab was fully responsible for his actions,
or had somehow been brainwashed.

Sadashiv Chandrakant Kolake, 35, a waiter who was hit by shrapnel from a grenade
at CST and later lost his job because of his injuries, said yesterday:
"Everybody knows Kasab did it. He should be punished."

Kasab's confession could help to ease relations between India and its neighbour,
analysts said. It came hours after the US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton,
used a trip to Mumbai to defend the sincerity of Islamabad's anti-terrorism
policies. "We believe there is a commitment to fighting terrorism that permeates
the entire (Pakistan) Government," Mrs Clinton said.

Azam Amir Kasab: "My wish is for you to punish me"

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: An elderly railway passenger is helped through the debris in Mumbai
after the massacre in which 166 people died
REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday

Dundee to play leading role in aftermath of terror attack

BYLINE: Alison Middleton

SECTION: NEWS; EDUCATION; Colleges/Univs; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 227 words


A Dundee University centre will lead efforts to identify victims in the event of
a terrorist attack, it was confirmed yesterday.

The Centre for Anatomy and Human Identification will assist the Home Office in
the event of a chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear (CBRN) incident.

Forensic anthropology experts will help to identify people during any major
incident which causes mass fatalities.

A spokesman for Dundee University said: "Mass fatalities, whether caused by a
natural disaster, industrial accident or terrorist attack, occur unexpectedly.

"When such an event happens, a quick and effective response is essential to deal
with the recovery and identification of the deceased.

"The current project at Dundee University focuses on incidents where the remains
are contaminated as a result of a CBRN incident.

"While a 'dirty bomb' attack has not yet taken place in the UK, this is
something for which the Home Office is preparing and is putting the
infrastructure in place to respond to such incidents."

Three local trusts yesterday presented £7,000 towards the centre's continuing
research.

Arbroath-based Aberbrothock Skea Trust, Dundee's Lethendy Trust and an anonymous
organisation donated the cash.

The funds will help meet the salary costs of post-doctoral researcher Roos Eisma
and an additional masters student who will be appointed later this year.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2009 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Terror attacks memory loss;
Letters

SECTION: ; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 105 words


THIS is great fun; another recruit in the "Ramblers Brigade" with memory loss.

Has Robert Mitchell forgotten the Twin Towers attacks in New York on 9/11, the
attack on the London Underground tube stations and several other attacks on
countries leaning towards democracy? These fundamentalists vowed to their God 20
years ago in Lebanon that when they had finished their training in terror camps
in Afghanistan and other Arab regions they would annihilate all western
democratic civilisations. The Taliban and Al-Qaida have infiltrated Iraq solely
to stop democracy from spreading in the Middle East.

J Hampton, Orchard House, Longford.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            just-drinks global news

                      July 22, 2009 Wednesday 2:33 PM GMT

INDIA: Mumbai terror attacks damage wine sales - trade body

BYLINE: Kevin Jacobs

LENGTH: 185  words


Fewer tourists as a result of the Mumbai terror attacks last year has been
blamed for a 60% fall in Indian wine sales by volume in the last nine months.

The November Mumbai attacks and a 5% rise in value added tax on wine, to a rate
of 25%, are the main reasons for the fall in sales in the nine months to the 30
June, the Indian Grape Processing Board (IGPB) said this week.

The IGPB, formed in February 2009, held its first meeting this week to discuss
the crisis.

Chairman SG Chougule said: "The body as a priority has decided to build a
database of all the stakeholders associated with the wine industry and has
apprised the state government and concerned ministries of the problems faced by
the wineries.

"Small wineries fear they will not be able to crush any grapes in the 2009-10
season or they could crush but would not be able to pay farmers contracted
rates" added Chougle.

Nashik in the state of Maharashtra, which has Mumbai as its capital, houses 60
out of India's 66 wineries.

Many wineries in Nashik will not buy grapes in the next harvest,  due to excess
stocks of unsold wine, according to the IGPB.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: SID4


                          Copyright 2009 Aroq Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

EVIL GANG LEFT TEEN IN POOL OF BLOOD;
Cops hunt vicious thugs after terror attack

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 428 words


DETECTIVES were yesterday hunting an evil gang of schoolkids - including a boy
aged just 12 - who stamped on the head of a terrified teenager and battered him
senseless.

The hate-fuelled beating was so severe that the 17-year-old victim was left
lying unconscious on a road in Foxbar, Paisley, with blood streaming from his
head.

It's understood he has a suspected skull fracture and, at one stage, his
condition was giving medics at the scene cause for concern but he was later
described as being in a "serious but stable" condition in the town's Royal
Alexandra Hospital.

As emergency workers were helping the badly-injured teenager, there was a second
brutal street attack just a few hundred yards away.

This time, the victim was aged 16 and was stabbed several times on the body. He
was rushed by ambulance to Glasgow's Southern General Hospital for urgent
treatment.

Last night, detectives had not ruled out a possible link between the two
frightening incidents.

The first attack happened in the Brediland Road area at around 7.30pm on Monday.

The victim had been walking with a young girl and was about to climb stairs
leading to Amochrie Road when a gang of about five teenagers targeted him.

At first, the neds, who were aged around 12 to 15, started shouting obscenities
and the teenager tried to ignore them.

Seconds later, the victim ran off but the vicious gang caught up with him a
short distance later and the merciless beating began. He was hit repeatedly and
the beating continued as he lay crumpled on the ground.

One source told the Paisley Daily Express: "I was told they were kicking and
punching this youngster about the head and body. It was brutal. Then at least
one of the yobs began stamping on his head.

"A number of people came out of their homes after hearing the rammy and medics
arrived at the scene.

"They were treating a teenager who was lying unconscious on the ground. People
feared the worst at that time because of the blood coming from his head.

"There was a lot of police there too and they were looking for witnesses. I
heard that the gang involved in the attack are all schoolboys and the youngest
is just 12 years old."

The second assault happened in Lyon Road, Foxbar, a short distance from Amochrie
Road.

In this incident, the young victim was knifed in the body. He was treated in
hospital but was not detained.

A police spokesman said: "We urge anyone who has information about either of
these attacks to contact us.

"They should call Paisley Police Office on 0141 532 5900 or Crimestoppers on
0800 555 111."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                             July 23, 2009 Thursday

Assault victim tells of gang attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 382 words


A Woman has spoken of her terror after she was beaten up in Cheltenham's
Montpellier Gardens by a female gang.

The 30-year-old woman, who wants to remain anonymous, suffered severe bruising
and grazes when she was subjected to a terrifying unprovoked attack by a gang of
women.

She hopes that by speaking out about the incident it might be possible to trace
her attackers.

She said: "It was so frightening. I had been to the fun fair with my partner and
he went off to the toilet.

"I was trying to find him when I was pushed to the ground from behind and
dragged into a quiet area where I was punched and kicked.

"I was on the ground, my eyes were streaming and my face was being pushed into
the mud.

"They were shouting and swearing at me.

"I have no idea why someone would want to do this.  I like to think I get on
with most people. It was as if all they wanted to do was hurt me and spoil my
evening."

The unprovoked attack happened at about 10.15pm on July 11, near the tennis
courts in Montpellier Gardens.

The attackers are described as two white females who were joined by a third
woman after the assault, which lasted for several minutes.

She said: "Because I was wearing distinctive clothes - a turquoise dress and
white high heels - I hope someone might remember seeing me that night.

"Any information could help the police find the people responsible and I'm still
hopeful that can happen."

The woman said she hoped a group of teenagers who had been on the bandstand just
before the attack or a couple who may have walked past during the incident, will
come forward.

She said she had not told friends about the incident because she did not want to
answer awkward questions - but she vowed it would not stop her carrying on with
her life.

"I won't be letting the mindless scum who did this stop me from going out
enjoying myself," she said.

"I'll definitely be out this weekend making sure I have a great night out."

A spokeswoman for Gloucestershire police said: "Police are investigating this
incident and are appealing for information. We are particularly keen to speak to
anybody who may have been in the area at the time."

Anyone with information on the assault should call police on 0845 090 1234,
quoting incident 1076 of July 11. Alternatively, call Crimestoppers,
anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 32


                      Copyright 2009 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              July 24, 2009 Friday

Serbia seeking ex-Kosovo rebel army member over Presevo "terror" attack

LENGTH: 223 words


Text of report in English by Serbian pro-western Belgrade-based Radio B92
website, on 23 July

Belgrade, 23 July: Serbian security forces have focused the investigation of the
recent terror attacks in the Presevo Valley on a group led by Lirim Jakupi
[former member of the Kosovo Liberation Army and Liberation Army of Presevo,
Medvedja and Bujanovac], says daily Politika.

According to available information, Bujanovac-born Jakupi (30), aka Nazi, and
members of his group are located in Kosovo, near Gnjilane.

The paper's source states that there is reliable evidence that Jakupi was
responsible for the attacks, but it is unknown whether he directly participated
or sent members of his group to ambush the Gendarmerie members and to set off a
bomb outside a block of flats in Presevo.

Four people were injured in the two incidents, including two Gendarmerie
members, and a woman and a boy, both ethnic Albanians.

According to preliminary reports, Jakupi's group only wanted to show that they
were still active, but also to draw Gendarmerie members into a broader campaign
that would cause the local Albanian population to revolt.

Jakupi was last heard of in summer 2007, when he escaped from the custody of
Macedonian police at Sar mountain at the Serbian-Macedonian border.

Source: Radio B92 text website, Belgrade, in English 1023 gmt 23 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday

India: Terror attack survivor nails Mumbai gunman

LENGTH: 667 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai, 24 July: A policeman, who survived the 26/11 terror attack here in
India's financial capital, Friday nailed accused Ajmal Kasab's confession as a
lie by telling the court that he and three senior police officers had returned
fire after terrorists fired at them.

Kasab, in his guilt plea, had stated on 20 July that he had not fired first at
police officers Hemant Karkare, Vijay Salaskar and Ashok Kamate who were killed
in the gun battle. He had implicated his teammate Abu Ismail for firing at cops.

However, Arun Jadhav, who survived the gunbattle between terrorists and six
policemen by lying in police jeep and pretending to be dead, told special public
prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam in his deposition that the two gunmen had fired first
which prompted them to retaliate.

Jadhav also informed the court that while throwing off the bodies of slain
police officers from the police jeep, Kasab had uttered abusive words. While
removing the body of Karkare he had said in abusive tone that the officer was
wearing a bullet proof jacket, he said.

A visibly upset Kasab stood up to say something but the judge M. L. Tahaliyani
asked him to sit down.

After Jadhav's deposition concluded, Kasab again got up and told his lawyer
Abbas Kazmi to cross examination the witness whether he had mentioned in his
statement to police about him (Kasab) using abusive words.

The judge, however, asked Kasab to speak to his lawyer later and not in the
midst of proceedings.

Jadhav, assistant to slain Inspector Vijay Salaskar, was in tears while
describing how arrested gunman Kasab and his dead accomplice Abu Ismail had
fired at the police jeep carrying Karkare, Salaskar, Kamte and three other
constables.

Describing the events on the night, Jadhav said when they reached Cama Hospital,
senior officials, Karkare, Kamte and Salaskar, decided to confront terrorists by
entering through the main gate of the hospital and instructed a group of
policemen to take position at the rear gate.

They took a Qualis jeep of Pydhonie division and the three senior officials sat
in the front two seats, while three other constables Yogesh Patil, Jaywant Patil
and Dilip Bhosale along with him (Jadhav) sat in the rear seat.

When the vehicle reached the lane adjoining Rang Bhavan, an open auditorium near
Cama Hospital, suddenly there was a burst of fire in their direction and Jadhav
said the three senior police officials and he retaliated by shooting back.

Jadhav said he was hit by the bullets due to which the carbine he was using fell
inside the vehicle and he was unable to pick it up.

The firing continued for three to four minutes, he said.

"I saw two men one tall and the other short firing at us. We fired back, I was
injured in elbow and left shoulder," Jadhav told the court.

After the firing, there was complete silence and the taller person, later
identified as Abu Ismail, tried to open the rear door of the jeep, he said.

As he could not move, Jadhav said, he stayed in the same position lying down and
pretended to be dead.

The duo then opened the doors of jeep and began throwing the bodies of slain
senior police officials on the road, Jadhav said.

The bodies of Salaskar was thrown by Ismail and that of Kamte by Kasab, who then
went and aided in removing Karkare's body from the jeep, he said.

Kasab abused while throwing the body of Karkare and remarked that the official
was wearing a bullet proof jacket, Jadhav said.

Mobile phone of one of the injured constables, Yogesh Patil, rang while the duo
was removing the bodies, and Kasab fired a round through the seat killing him,
the witness said.

In another development, the court today allowed the prosecution to examine FBI
officers as witnesses in the case but barred the media from disclosing their
names and addresses as they faced threat to their lives.

Prosecutor Nikam said he will file a schedule of examination of FBI witnesses on
29 July.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1555gmt 24 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             July 25, 2009 Saturday
                                 Ulster Edition

FURY AT 3 NIGHT ATTACKS;
FAMILY'S BOMB TERROR

BYLINE: COLM DONNELLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 255 words


A CATHOLIC family of five escaped injury yesterday in a blast-bomb attack during
a night of terror.

A loyalist group claimed responsibility for the incident which damaged the front
of their home in Antrim town shortly before 4am.

Detectives urged anyone who was near Brantwood Gardens at the time to come
forward.

They particularly want to speak to two young men seen in the vicinity on
bicycles.

Police also appealed for information from any milkmen who may have been on their
delivery rounds.

Earlier, in South Belfast, there was an arson attack on a house on the Belvoir
estate when a wheelie bin was set alight and placed against the back door at
around 1.30am.

The occupants, a couple in their 30s and their sons aged five and 10, were not
injured, but damage was caused to the rear of the house. A motive for the attack
is being investigated.

Elsewhere, in Armoy, Co Antrim, GAA clubrooms were damaged in another overnight
arson attack.

A window was smashed at Glen Rovers' premises on Glenshesk Road before petrol
was poured in and set alight.

However, police revealed the fire failed to take hold as the fuel had been
poured into a shower room.

Club secretary Olcan Devlin said yesterday that although the premises suffered
relatively minor scorch and smoke damage, it had left him angry.

He added:"Everyone in the community uses the building. It's used for whist
drives, birthday parties, special functions. It's used by the widespread
community.

"So it's not really an attack on the hurling club, it's an attack on the whole
community."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 28, 2009 Tuesday

US men charged with planning overseas terror attacks

LENGTH: 473 words

ABSTRACT

Father and two sons among seven from North Carolina charged with plotting to
carry out 'violent jihad'

FULL TEXT

A father and his two sons are among seven men from the US state of North
Carolina who have been charged with plotting to carry out "violent jihad" in a
series of terror attacks in countries including Israel and Jordan.

Prosecutors say the alleged ringleader, 39-year-old Daniel Boyd, trained in
Pakistan and Afghanistan and fought against the Soviets for three years before
returning to the US.

They claim he then set up his own training and fundraising organisation,
recruiting his two sons, Zakariya, 20 and 22-year-old Dylan.

The seven men are accused of conspiring to kill, kidnap and maim, but not of
carrying out actual attacks.

They arranged weapons training, funding and travel for others who wished to
fight overseas, the indictment says.

"Over the past three years, Boyd has conspired with others in this country to
recruit and help young men travel overseas in order to kill," David Kris, of the
US Department of Justice, said.

Boyd lived in a lakeside home in a rural area south of Raleigh, the state
capital, where he and his family operated a drywall business.

The court indictment does not detail any specific terrorist plans or targets
overseas, but claims some of the defendants travelled to Israel in 2007 with the
intent of waging "violent jihad", returning home without having succeeded.

The seven men made their first court appearances in Raleigh yesterday, charged
with providing material support to terrorism. If convicted, they could face life
in prison. Court documents say Boyd, also known as Saifullah, encouraged others
to engage in jihad.

Boyd had stopped attending his mosque and instead began holding Frideay prayer
meetings in his home, US Attorney George Holding said.

"These people had broken away because their local mosque did not follow their
vision of being a good Muslim," Holding said. "This is not an indictment of the
entire Muslim community."

In 1991, Boyd and his brother were convicted of bank robbery in Pakistan and
accused of carrying identification showing that they belonged to the radical
Afghan guerrilla group, Hezb-e-Islami, or Party of Islam.

Each was sentenced to have a foot and a hand cut off for the robbery, but the
decision was later overturned.

Their wives told the Associated Press in an interview at the time that the
couples had US roots but said the US was a country of "heathens".

Boyd was also accused of trying to raise money last year to fund others to
travel overseas to fight.

It is not the first case of its kind in the US. In May, five men were convicted
of conspiring to blow up the Sears tower in Chicago.

In January 2008, Jose Padilla, a Muslim convert, was sentenced to more than 17
years in prison for plotting to kill people overseas and supporting terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Thanet Times

                                 July 28, 2009

Family's cleaver attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 320 words


A Former soldier who threatened a petrified mother and her young kids with a
meat cleaver has narrowly avoided prison.

Stacey Cooper, 26, of William Avenue, Margate, was sentenced by Thanet
magistrates last Tuesday  after he was found guilty at a previous trial of
possession of an offensive weapon, criminal damage and using threatening
behaviour.

Ian Calloway, prosecuting, told the court how Cooper's terrified neighbour Lisa
Kemp cowered in her home on June 23 last year, after Cooper stormed round to her
flat after a fight with her husband Robert. Mr Calloway said: "He shouted 'Get
out here you fat  f***** slag' and repeatedly shouted the word  'c***' through
the door."

Crazed Cooper then turned up in the street waving a meat cleaver. The prosecutor
added: "Mrs Kemp said she was hysterical, and feared he would try to come into
the house."

With her husband at work, she roused her children from sleep and tried to get
them to the room furthest from the door.

Outside, Cooper slashed at the fence of the family home before police arrived
and arrested him.

Alex Thompson, defending, told magistrates "the very unattractive scene
described did not happen in a vacuum."

He said Cooper had gone round to the house under the influence of drink and
drugs after a fight with  Mr Kemp.

He said Cooper had found it difficult leaving the Royal Fusiliers, and had moved
to   Cliftonville from London to escape his problems.

Since the attack his solicitor said he had put his life back together again and
now had a long-term girlfriend.

Magistrates said the violence of the crimes meant that a jail term had to be
given, but they suspended a 180-day sentence for his threatening behaviour for
six months. They gave him a concurrent 180-day sentence for possession of the
meat cleaver and 30 days for the criminal damage, also both suspended, and  a
further 30-day suspended sentence for not attending court on the date of his
trial.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 276


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Thanet Times

                                 July 28, 2009

Family's cleaver attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 320 words


A Former soldier who threatened a petrified mother and her young kids with a
meat cleaver has narrowly avoided prison.

Stacey Cooper, 26, of William Avenue, Margate, was sentenced by Thanet
magistrates last Tuesday  after he was found guilty at a previous trial of
possession of an offensive weapon, criminal damage and using threatening
behaviour.

Ian Calloway, prosecuting, told the court how Cooper's terrified neighbour Lisa
Kemp cowered in her home on June 23 last year, after Cooper stormed round to her
flat after a fight with her husband Robert. Mr Calloway said: "He shouted 'Get
out here you fat  f***** slag' and repeatedly shouted the word  'c***' through
the door."

Crazed Cooper then turned up in the street waving a meat cleaver. The prosecutor
added: "Mrs Kemp said she was hysterical, and feared he would try to come into
the house."

With her husband at work, she roused her children from sleep and tried to get
them to the room furthest from the door.

Outside, Cooper slashed at the fence of the family home before police arrived
and arrested him.

Alex Thompson, defending, told magistrates "the very unattractive scene
described did not happen in a vacuum."

He said Cooper had gone round to the house under the influence of drink and
drugs after a fight with  Mr Kemp.

He said Cooper had found it difficult leaving the Royal Fusiliers, and had moved
to   Cliftonville from London to escape his problems.

Since the attack his solicitor said he had put his life back together again and
now had a long-term girlfriend.

Magistrates said the violence of the crimes meant that a jail term had to be
given, but they suspended a 180-day sentence for his threatening behaviour for
six months. They gave him a concurrent 180-day sentence for possession of the
meat cleaver and 30 days for the criminal damage, also both suspended, and  a
further 30-day suspended sentence for not attending court on the date of his
trial.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 276


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 30, 2009 Thursday

Indonesia's Kalla blames poverty in Islamic nations for terror attacks

LENGTH: 554 words


Text of report in English by influential Indonesian newspaper The Jakarta Post
English-language website on 29 July

[Unattributed report: "Kalla blames poverty for terror attacks"]

Vice President Jusuf Kalla blames the disparities in prosperity levels between
rich and poor Islamic countries for terrorist attacks in the world, urging
leaders of Islamic countries to work together to distribute wealth more fairly.

In a seminar held by the World Islamic People's Leadership (WIPL) in Jakarta on
Monday, Kalla asked attendants and delegates from Islamic countries to work
towards balancing wealth in Muslim countries.

He cited the wealth imbalance that resulted when oil prices skyrocketed above
US$140 (Rp 1.3 million) per barrel last year. The hike in oil prices created
misery for the majority of Muslims living in developing countries, and huge
profits for a small number of Muslims in oil-producing countries.

"About 70 per cent of Muslims living in developing countries were severely
affected. And yet some 20 per cent of Muslims profited from the rise of oil
prices," Kalla told seminar attendants at the Sahid Jaya Hotel in Jakarta.

He said the imbalance of wealth fuelled terror attacks as many of the
terrorists' pawns came from poor and downtrodden families, looking for a cause
to fight in life.

Indonesia became the victim of a terrorist bombing attack earlier this month.
Suicide bombers entered the JW Marriot and Ritz-Carlton hotels in Kuningan,
South Jakarta. The attack killed seven people, some of whom were expatriates,
and wounded 50 others.

Kalla said leaders of Islamic countries needed to work together address the
differences in wealth and move towards a better equilibrium, adding the leaders
had more to lose if they did not.

"Terrorism causes huge losses. With a bomb only costs US$7,000 to make,
terrorist can provoke losses of nearly $25 million," he said.

Kalla complimented the seminar, which preludes the upcoming meeting of WIPL
members in Tripoli, Libya, in October, for encouraging governments of Islamic
countries to create fair policies, but reminded delegates the most important
issue was unifying Muslims when taking measures to address challenges.

"Civilization will end if there is no prosperity and justice," he said. "Our
most important task is to act to solve that problem. Together, we can do this."

Din Syamsuddin, the chairman of Muhammadiyah - the country's second largest
Islamic organization - and WIPL's deputy secretary-general, agreed with Kalla.

"Muhammadiyah and the WIPL have already condemned these terrorist attacks and,
as Vice President Kalla has mentioned before, the WIPL is ready to take this
matter to our international conference in October," he said.

"We will work to open dialogues and bridge differences between Islamic leaders
on this matter, to ensure a more balanced wealth distribution," he added.

Din said members of the WIPL had proven their commitment by coming to Indonesia,
despite the recent bomb attacks in Kuningan.

"The bomb attacks have damaged the image of Indonesia... but our delegates who
are here today saw the real essence of our country and praised Indonesia for its
strength in facing crisis," he said.

Indonesia has been rocked by a number of bombing attacks since 2000 in Jakarta
and Bali.

Source: The Jakarta Post website, Jakarta, in English 29 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 30, 2009 Thursday

Terrorist attack in Algeria's Tipaza kills 14 soldiers - paper

LENGTH: 593 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 30 July

[Report by M'hamed H.: "National People's Army Convoy Attacked by a Terrorist
Group: Fourteen Soldiers Killed Near Tipaza"]

The toll from the lethal attack that was perpetrated yesterday [29 July] by the
criminal hordes was of 14 soldiers killed and several others wounded. This new
attack took place south of the coastal community of Damous, which is located in
the far west of the wilaya of Tipaza, about 10 kilometres down the road linking
Damous and Beni Mileuk. The attack took place at about noon while a convoy made
up of several military vehicles was going off to supply the military camp of
Adouiya, a mountainous area close to the wilayas of Chlef and Ain Defla, not far
from a municipal guard detachment.

The terrorist group had been well informed about the movements of the elements
from the National People's Army [ANP] and in particular had become well
acquainted with the spot where its killing would be committed. Movements of
terrorists had been reported to the security agencies by citizens. "The day
before yesterday, we saw terrorists in the region, in all likelihood they were
arriving from the south, from the Kef Eddir dam that is in the process of being
built," several people from the Damous region told us.

"No one imagined that these criminals," one citizen who was still in shock went
on to say, "would attack the soldiers." "What has just happened today, in broad
daylight, confirms that their presence in the region was to commit their macabre
crime," another citizen added. The response from the soldiers, who were
surprised by this ambush, was immediate, but without successfully forcing the
terrorist group into falling back.

Initially 10 soldiers were killed at the scene of the attack. Many of the
wounded were evacuated. There were allegedly seven wounded; two succumbed after
being admitted to the Damous polyclinic. The ballet of the tens of ambulances on
the segment of National Road [RN] 11 linking the small city of Damous to the
main town in the wilaya of Tipaza rendered the summer's atmosphere in that
western part of the wilaya of Tipaza gloomy. The National Gendarmeriie's and the
ANP's helicopters began to overfly the area several minutes after the attack. It
was 1830 hours and the helicopters bombed this wooded space that abuts the
municipalities of Beni Mileuk and Damous. The reinforcements continued to arrive
before the gaze of terrorized residents. The mood in the city of Damous changed
radically. The young wounded soldiers and some survivors were still in shock
from this unexpected terrorist attack.

More surprising and more disturbing in particular is the fact that the attack
occurred in the middle of the day. According to local sources, officials from
the First Military Region reportedly got to the scene of the ambush immediately.
The ambulances that were evacuating the deceased or wounded soldiers, were
trying to clear a path for themselves in order to get to Algiers and Blida
quickly. The movement of ambulances only stopped seven hours after the attack.
The search operation in the terrain located between the municipalities of Damous
and Beni Mileuk was launched immediately. Curiously, ever since some repentants
surrendered in recent months to the security forces, the terrorist attacks have
multiplied. The calm that reigned in the wilaya of Tipaza in recent years thus
seems broken. With this bloody attack, the region has been plunged back into
terror.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 30 Jul 09

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                              July 31, 2009 Friday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Majorca sealed off after attack;
TERROR: Tourists left trapped as airports are closed

SECTION: ; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 204 words


POLICE sealed off the holiday island of Majorca last night after two officers
were killed in a suspected ETA bomb attack.

The airport and seaports were closed, leaving tourists trapped, after the second
bombing aimed at Spanish police in two days.

The island's Interior Ministry said: "As a result of the attack state security
forces have sealed off the island to avoid the escape of the terrorists."

The Civil Guard said the bomb was planted in the Palmanova beach resort area,
south-west of the holiday island's capital of Palma.

It exploded around lunchtime outside offices run by the Civil Guard, a few miles
from where Spain's royal family is on holiday Police immediately launched
"Operation Cage" to close the ports and airport to prevent the bombers' escape.

The move, in peak holiday season, caused chaos and was a further blow to the
island's tourist-based economy.

Security forces believe ETA, weakened by arrests of top leaders, is putting on a
show of force to prove it is still able to strike.

The blast injured around 60 people at a police barracks in the northern city of
Burgos. ETA has killed more than 825 people since it launched a campaign in 1968
for an independent homeland in Basque region of northern Spain.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLAST... tourists look at the smoke and flames coming from the car
explosion

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                         Middlesbrough Evening Gazette

                              July 31, 2009 Friday
                                  1st Edition

Teen's park attack terror;
Teen hurt in attack

BYLINE: RON LIVINGSTONE

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 405 words


A TEENAGER was attacked by a dog and struck by a chain in a vicious robbery in a
popular Teesside park.

The 17-year-old was using his mobile phone when he was approached by two men
riding BMX-style bikes with a white Staffordshire bull terrier type dog running
alongside them.

One of the men demanded his phone. When the victim tried to escape the suspect
set the dog on him - resulting in a bite to his ankle.

As he continued to try to run away towards Park Road South a he was pulled to
the ground by the dog. One of the robbers then struck him in the face with a dog
chain resulting in him dropping the phone which was then grabbed by the robber.
The incident occurred between 6pm-6.30pm on Tuesday as the man was walking from
the main gates at the Linthorpe Road end of the park along the main boulevard
and past the fountain in the middle of the park. Both men cycled back towards
the park's main gates before calling the dog off the man. A Cleveland Police
spokeswoman said: "The victim tried to run away towards Park Road South but was
pulled to the ground by the dog. "One of the suspects then attacked the victim
with a dog chain striking the man to his face, resulting in him dropping his
mobile phone."

"One of the men demanded the victim's mobile phone and when the victim tried to
escape the suspect gave a command to the dog, which resulted in the dog
attacking the victim and biting his left ankle. "The victim again tried to run
away towards Park Road South but was pulled to the ground by the dog." After the
phone was stolen the dog was called off. One attacker is about 5ft 6ins, thin
with brown hair shaven at the sides and brushed forward on top. He was wearing a
distinctive navy and white thick hooped jumper, navy tracksuit bottoms and light
trainers. He rode a dark BMX style bicycle and appeared to be in control of the
dog .

His accomplice is about around 5ft 10ins, of large build and wore glasses. He
had a similar style haircut but his hair was light brown to fair in colour. He
wore a black tracksuit with a zip to the front of the top. Both are white and
about 18. The victim, a local man was later treated at James Cook University
Hospital for minor injuries. The force spokeswoman added: "The park was busy at
this time and there were people nearby." Anyone with information is asked to
call DC Clark Graham of Middlesbrough police on 01642 303126 or Cimestoppers
anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                              July 31, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Terror attack causes chaos on holiday isle

BYLINE: Mike Jones

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 124 words


BRITISH holidaymakers stranded in Majorca after a bomb attack were returning
home today.

Roads, ports and the airport on the Spanish holiday island were closed yesterday
after the device exploded in Palmanova beach resort, south-west of the capital,
Palma, killing two police officers.

Basque separatist group ETA is suspected of carrying out the attack. It came a
day after a car bomb blamed on the same group injured around 60 people at a
police barracks in northern Spain.

Majorca police immediately launched Operation Cage to close the ports and
airport to prevent the bombers' escape.

The shutdown happened with an estimated 15,000 to 20,000 Britons on the island,
but its airports reopened yesterday evening.

Full report: page 9 more

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  FATALBLAST: An investigator stands beside the wreckage of a car in the
popular British tourist resort of Palmanova, Majorca, yesterday. At least two
people were killed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   York Press

                              July 31, 2009 Friday

Majorca terrorist attacks delay Yorkshire tourists

BYLINE: Jeremy Small

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS (P NEWS LOCAL)

LENGTH: 284 words


HOLIDAY-MAKERS from Yorkshire have been dealt a blow after a bomb exploded at a
major Majorcan resort.

Police sealed off the holiday island yesterday lunchtime, closing the airport
and seaports, after two Spanish police officers were killed in a suspected
attack by Basque separatists ETA.

Flights to Majorca, including two to and from Leeds-Bradford International
Airport and one to Robin Hood Airport, near Doncaster, were turned back or
delayed, following the blast in the Palmanova beach area, near the holiday
island's capital of Palma.

A spokesman for airline jet2.com said as a result of the attack its LS227 3pm
flight to Palma de Mallorca Airport was delayed by more than three hours, taking
off at 6.04pm.

The airline's LS228 9pm flight from Palma was expected to land at Leeds-Bradford
at 1am today. Jet2.com's LS257 flight to the Majorcan capital at 7.45am today
was expected to take off on time.

Passengers returning on Thomson Airways flight TOM 3401, which was due to arrive
at Robin Hood Airport at 8.50pm, were last night expected to face lengthy
delays.

However, the air operator's 2.20pm TOM3450 flight to Palma left Leeds-Bradford
only ten minutes behind schedule.

The explosion came a day after a car bomb blamed on the same group injured
around 60 people at a police barracks in the northern Spanish city of Burgos.

Following yesterday's blast, Majorcan police immediately launched Operation Cage
to close the ports and airport to prevent the bombers' escape. Last night,
Spanish police said they had defused a second bomb in Palmanova beach which had
been found underneath a police vehicle.

Travel organisation Abta said there were an estimated 15,000 to 20,000 Britons
on Majorca at present.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Belfast News

                            August 1, 2009 Saturday

Holidaymakers tell of Majorca terror attacks

LENGTH: 350 words



HIGHLIGHT: ULSTER holidaymakers returning home from Majorca have spoken of their
horror at Thursday's bomb attack on the Spanish island.


Basque separatist group ETA are thought to have been behind the car bombing,
which killed two police officers.

Jenny Patton, 18, and Carol Anne O'Neill, 18, from Strabane were sipping coffee
a short distance from where the bomb detonated in the Palmanova beach resort
area, south-west of the island's capital, Palma de Majorca.

"It was just like a big bang," said Jenny.

"We were only about five minutes from the blast but we didn't know what had
happened, no one really knew what was going on.

"Then we saw the news and then we were really shocked.

"Palma Nova is just such a small, quiet resort, we just could not believe what
had happened."

The teenagers were on their first holiday without their families and said their
parents were frantic with worry about them.

"We were able to ring our parents straight away and tell them we were okay but
they were really freaked out, especially because it was our first holiday
without them," said Carol Anne.

"We were just worried about not being able to get home, the airports were shut
down and it was really weird."

Television images showed the charred and mangled remains of a vehicle parked
near the police barracks. Officials shut down the island's airports and ports
for several hours while police searched for suspects.

Police later defused a second explosive device placed under another civil guard
vehicle at a different base on Majorca, officials said.

There has been no claim of responsibility for the attack yet, but Spain's Prime
Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero said it bore all the hallmarks of ETA.

Glengormley couple Lynda and Trevor Morrison were staying in a hotel beside the
police station where an earlier bomb exploded on Wednesday leaving 50 people
wounded.

"We could not get back into our hotel until 11pm that night," Lynda said. "But
we were very impressed with the local police, they handled the situation very
calmly and brought things under control quickly."

Friday marked the 50th anniversary of the foundation of ETA and it has killed
more than 825 people since beginning its violent campaign for an independent
Basque state in 1968.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BELF


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            August 1, 2009, Saturday

BLASTS WON'T STOP US RETURNING TO MAJORCA;
PLEDGE FROM SCOTS AFTER TERROR ATTACK SPARKS FLIGHT CHAOS

BYLINE: Amy Devine

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 229 words


SCOTS holidaymakers yesterday vowed the bombings which killed two cops in
Majorca wouldn't stop them going back.

The island was immediately put under lockdown after Thursday's blast in Palma
Nova.

Scores of passengers were forced to sleep in Palma airport as their flight was
delayed for almost 22 hours. But many vowed the ordeal would not put them off
their favourite destination.

Dad-of-two Craig Gordon, 40, from Milton, Glasgow, said: "We've been to Alcudia
in Majorca several times and we love it. This won't stop us going back. It could
have happened anywhere."

But they vowed never to fly with Ryanair again after they were kept on a
grounded plane for four hours before spending the night in the airport.

Charged

Craig's furious wife Ann, 46, said: "It was an absolute nightmare.

"We were stuck on the plane for four hours without food or water and, when the
crew came round, they charged us for drinks.

"Some people needed heart or diabetes medication but there was no one to help.
No one wanted to know us."

Dad-of-three Steven McKirdy, 30, a mechanic from Edinburgh's Meadowbank, said:
"It was a shambles.

"We had to find out for ourselves, from internet phones and laptops, that there
had been a bombing."

The authorities blame ETA for the blast on Thursday that killed the two
officers, as well as a car bomb that injured scores in the Spanish city of
Burgos a day earlier.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TEARS: Police at vigil VOW: Craig Gordon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 3, 2009 Monday

China police, state security forces prevent "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 216 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

BEIJING, Aug. 3 (Xinhua) - Police forces and state security agencies had
prevented five organized terrorist attacks on civilians in China's far west
Xinjiang Uighur Autonomous Region, China's anti-terrorism sources said Monday.

Separatist "East Turkestan" terrorists both at home and abroad had been plotting
attacks against civilians since the July 5 riot that left 197 dead and more than
1,600 injured in Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang.

The recent attempted attacks would have "damaged social stability and ethnic
unity", the sources said.

Police forces and state security authorities had successively crushed five
organized terrorist plots in Urumqi, Kashgar, Aksu and Ili in Xinjiang.

Anti-terrorism agencies had captured "a group of suspects involved in the
terrorist activities" but the number of people arrested was not given.

Also confiscated were "guns, controlled knifes, explosives and materials
advocating violence and terrorism." Further details were kept under wraps.

The crackdown on terrorist activities had effectively safeguarded the country's
security and stability, and protected the people's life and property safety, the
sources said.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1146 gmt 3 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

India readies guidelines for tackling chemical attack by terrorists

LENGTH: 428 words


Text of report by private Indian television channel Zee News website on 4 August

New Delhi: Defence Minister A.K. Antony Tuesday [4 August] warned that
terrorists were becoming more aggressive by adopting new technologies in their
operations but said the Defence Ministry will prepare itself to meet these
threats.

"Terrorists are getting more and more aggressive in their activities the world
over and they are adopting newer techniques and technologies in their
operations," Antony said after releasing the Guidelines for Management of
Chemical (Terrorism) Disasters prepared by the National Disaster Management
Authority (NDMA) here.

"The Defence Ministry will also prepare itself (along with NDMA) to meet these
threats from terrorists," he said.

Stating that the 132-page guidelines were "comprehensive", the minister said
they would go a long way in effective prevention and management of chemical
disasters in the country.

He said the guidelines were intended for disaster management including
prevention, surveillance and intelligence gathering, apart from capacity
building and infrastructure development for an effective response, relief and
rehabilitation of areas hit by chemical disaster.

Expressing the hope that the new guidelines would help effective prevention and
management of chemical disasters, Antony said the challenge lies in practical
application of these on a war-footing.

NDMA vice-chairman General (retired) N.C. Vij said the guidelines also looked at
manpower issues to handle chemical terror attack and disasters.

Vij said his agency was in touch with the HRD [human resource development]
Ministry to include disaster management as a subject in all educational
institutions from schools to colleges, including technology and medical
institutes.

He said the guidelines ensured that India was prepared for any chemical threat,
saying they related to disaster mitigation and prevention.

"We should be prepared. The moment we are aware of the nature of threat, the
problem comes down many notches. Already, we have issued these guidelines and
laid down various responsibilities for organisations so that we are
well-prepared," he said.

To a question, Vij, a former army chief, said the terror groups operating in
India did not have chemical warfare capabilities.

"I do not think capabilities of that kind (chemical warfare) exists. There is a
good amount of information available to us on all these groups. Intelligence
agencies, too, have doubled their efforts in this regard," he added.

Source: Zee News TV website, New Delhi, in English 04 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

"Sophisticated" weapons said used in recent Algeria terror attack

LENGTH: 465 words


Text of report by Algerian electronic daily Tout sur l'Algerie website on 1
August

[Report by Samir Allam: "In the Tipaza Attack, the Terrorists Used
'Sophisticated Weapons'"]

Has the terrorist threat crossed one additional threshold with the attack that
was perpetrated on Wednesday, 29 July on an army convoy near Tipaza [90 km west
of Algiers in which 14 soldiers were killed]?

One thing is certain: according to a source close to the security agencies, the
armed group that was behind the attack used weapons that were termed
"sophisticated." Our source did not specify the type of weapons used in this
attack, which killed at least 14 and wounded several among the soldiers, but,
according to our news reports, this might involve latest generation RPG-type
weapons used by powerful guerrillas such as Lebanon's Hezbollah. The two first
trucks in the army's convoy were "pulverized" and the vehicles that followed
sustained major damage, according to the same source. Only the use of
sophisticated weapons can justify such a heavy toll, our source added.

For the security agencies, the attack bore the signature of the Salafi Group for
Call and Combat [GSPC], which has become Al-Qa'idah in the [Land of the] Islamic
Maghreb (AQLIM). The hypothesis of a rival group that might reportedly be trying
to impose its presence west of Algiers now seems not very probable. The AQLIM
has major financial resources that allow it to stock up on weapons of such
effectiveness.

Before the Tipaza attack, the intelligence agencies had detected the presence of
terrorists from the GSPC in the region starting from west of Algiers. On 12
July, Tout sur l'Algerie had reported a huge search operation kicked off by the
army in that area. But the armed group had successfully gone around the presence
that had been put in place.

The Tipaza attack comes following the one perpetrated on 18 June on gendarmes
who had been escorting Chinese workers near Bordj Bou-Arreridj [250 km east of
Algiers]. The attack, which killed more than 20 among elements from the
Gendarmerie, was also reportedly carried out with sophisticated weapons.

This new lay of the land is doubly worrisome for the security agencies. The
attacks are creating numerous victims among the security forces. And, unlike the
suicide attacks, which were often in inhabited areas, the new attacks, which are
carried out in the countryside, only claim military victims, without affecting
civilians. Now, just as the increase in the number of the suicide attacks had
influenced the armed Islamist groups' image, so do the new methods risk
rendering them popular with a population that is increasingly hostile towards
the government. It is this second risk that the authorities should fear the
most.

Source: Tout sur l'Algerie website, in French 1 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Terror as gang attack taxi

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 269 words


By Dan Charlesdan.charles@glosmedia.co.uk

A CAB driver has spoken of his terror after a gang of men attacked his private
hire taxi.

Saleem Akhtar, 22, drives a cab for Bristol Road-based 321 Taxis.

He said three men stepped out into the street, forcing him to stop the car in
Kingsholm Road at about 4.30am on Sunday.

"I was on my way to Denmark Road to pick some people up who had booked the
taxi," said Saleem.

"These guys walked into the road so I had to stop, and they were asking if I
could take them to Hucclecote.

"I told them I couldn't because I was on a job, and that's when things got out
of hand."

He said the men then surrounded the vehicle and started to hurl abuse at him.

They then kicked the taxi  denting both back passenger doors.

One of the men even picked up a nearby estate agent's sign and threatened to
throw it through the windscreen.

"I was really scared and nervous," said Saleem. "I was on the radio calling for
help, I was shouting 'Help me, help me' into the radio but none of the other
drivers were around.

"I saw the man with the sign in my mirror, and luckily I managed to drive off
before he could throw it."

Saleem said he called the police shortly after the attack.

A police spokeswoman confirmed the incident and said one man was arrested.

She said: "At around 4.30am on Sunday, August 2, three men kicked a cream
Mercedes C Class taxi in Kingsholm Road, causing dents and scratches, after they
were refused a lift.

"A 17-year-old boy from Gloucester was arrested on suspicion of criminal damage.

"He has been bailed to return to Gloucester Police Station on August 24 pending
further inquiries."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 31


                     Copyright 2009 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gloucester Citizen

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Terror as gang attack taxi

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 269 words


By Dan Charlesdan.charles@glosmedia.co.uk

A CAB driver has spoken of his terror after a gang of men attacked his private
hire taxi.

Saleem Akhtar, 22, drives a cab for Bristol Road-based 321 Taxis.

He said three men stepped out into the street, forcing him to stop the car in
Kingsholm Road at about 4.30am on Sunday.

"I was on my way to Denmark Road to pick some people up who had booked the
taxi," said Saleem.

"These guys walked into the road so I had to stop, and they were asking if I
could take them to Hucclecote.

"I told them I couldn't because I was on a job, and that's when things got out
of hand."

He said the men then surrounded the vehicle and started to hurl abuse at him.

They then kicked the taxi  denting both back passenger doors.

One of the men even picked up a nearby estate agent's sign and threatened to
throw it through the windscreen.

"I was really scared and nervous," said Saleem. "I was on the radio calling for
help, I was shouting 'Help me, help me' into the radio but none of the other
drivers were around.

"I saw the man with the sign in my mirror, and luckily I managed to drive off
before he could throw it."

Saleem said he called the police shortly after the attack.

A police spokeswoman confirmed the incident and said one man was arrested.

She said: "At around 4.30am on Sunday, August 2, three men kicked a cream
Mercedes C Class taxi in Kingsholm Road, causing dents and scratches, after they
were refused a lift.

"A 17-year-old boy from Gloucester was arrested on suspicion of criminal damage.

"He has been bailed to return to Gloucester Police Station on August 24 pending
further inquiries."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 31


                     Copyright 2009 The Gloucester Citizen
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Us veterans with wartime tales to tell;
The picture with this letter was taken on the morning of 9/11, before we had
learned of the terrorist attack.

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 203 words


It shows, from left, "'Wild Bill" Guarnere, who lost his leg near Bastogne
during the Battle of the Bulge in 1944  -  he is portrayed in the TV series Band
of Brothers -  Ted Paluch, one of the few survivors of the infamous Malmedy
massacre in that same battle, myself, and my late husband, Maurice.

We were about to attend the dedication of a stained glass window in the US War
College of the Carlisle, Pennsylvania, army barracks.

Just as the late Harry Patch was able to tell what it was like in the trenches
in the First World War,  the American veterans who still survive can tell us
what it was like for them in the Second World War.

Some 100,000 young Americans were killed in the skies above Europe and another
80,000 were either killed or wounded in the infamous Battle of the Bulge.

As another anniversary of the day THE bomb was dropped approaches  -  August 6 -
"we should understand that it was done to stop the killing": the words of the
man who dropped the bomb, Major General Paul Tibbets.

He was frequently condemned for doing so and when he avoided publicity many
thought he'd gone mad or was dead.

When I met him in 1998, at his invitation, he was very much alive and he was
certainly not mad.

Iris Rowe

Somerset

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Us veterans with wartime tales to tell;
The picture with this letter was taken on the morning of 9/11, before we had
learned of the terrorist attack.

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 203 words


It shows, from left, "'Wild Bill" Guarnere, who lost his leg near Bastogne
during the Battle of the Bulge in 1944  -  he is portrayed in the TV series Band
of Brothers -  Ted Paluch, one of the few survivors of the infamous Malmedy
massacre in that same battle, myself, and my late husband, Maurice.

We were about to attend the dedication of a stained glass window in the US War
College of the Carlisle, Pennsylvania, army barracks.

Just as the late Harry Patch was able to tell what it was like in the trenches
in the First World War,  the American veterans who still survive can tell us
what it was like for them in the Second World War.

Some 100,000 young Americans were killed in the skies above Europe and another
80,000 were either killed or wounded in the infamous Battle of the Bulge.

As another anniversary of the day THE bomb was dropped approaches  -  August 6 -
"we should understand that it was done to stop the killing": the words of the
man who dropped the bomb, Major General Paul Tibbets.

He was frequently condemned for doing so and when he avoided publicity many
thought he'd gone mad or was dead.

When I met him in 1998, at his invitation, he was very much alive and he was
certainly not mad.

Iris Rowe

Somerset

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2009 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     August 5, 2009 Wednesday 07:18 AM GMT

'Suicide attack' terror suspect in court outburst

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 655 words


One of four men charged accused of plotting a suicide attack on an Australian
military base angrily denied he was a terrorist today and accused the country's
troops of killing innocent people overseas.

Wissam Mahmoud Fattal, who police say is a member of an extremist cell with ties
to an al Qaida-linked group in Somalia, refused to stand up at Melbourne
Magistrates Court, where he was charged with conspiring to plan a terrorist
attack.

He did not enter a plea and faces life in prison if convicted.

As Fattal was being led from the court, he accused Australia of killing innocent
people in Afghanistan and Iraq and said, "You call us terrorists - I've never
killed anyone in my life."

Fattal's lawyer, Grace Morgan, said her client did not mean disrespect to the
magistrate by not standing, but he would stand only for his god.

Yesterday police arrested four men - all Australian citizens aged between 22 and
26 with Somali and Lebanese origins - in raids on 19 houses in Melbourne, the
culmination of a seven-month intelligence operation.

Fattal, Nayef El Sayed and two other men were charged with conspiring to plan a
terrorist attack.

Police say the cell's plan was to send a team of gunmen with automatic rifles on
a suicide attack against Holsworthy Barracks, an army base on the outskirts of
Sydney, and launch a fight to the death with troops.

The base houses commandos trained in counter-terrorism, a Black Hawk helicopter
squadron and thousands of regular troops.

The men planned to keep on shooting until they themselves were killed, acting
Australian Federal Police chief Tony Negus told reporters.

"Potentially this would have been, if it had been able to be carried out, the
most serious terrorist attack on Australian soil," he said.

Negus said some of the suspects had travelled to Somalia and were believed to
have fought alongside Islamic insurgents there.

Police said extensive electronic surveillance and phone intercepts of the cell
revealed details of the plot.

"I stalked around. It is easy to enter" the Holsworthy barracks, one of the
suspects allegedly said to another in an intercepted text message, The Age
newspaper reported, citing police agent David Kinton.

Police did not allege a possible motive for the attack, or when it was planned
for, but said the men were linked to the Somali Islamist organisation al-Shabaab
and were trying to find a senior cleric who would approve the operation so they
could become martyrs.

Terrorist violence is extremely rare in Australia - the unsolved 1978 bombing
near the Hilton Hotel that killed two is the best-known incident - and no
attacks have been carried out in the country since the September 11, 2001,
attacks in the US raised security threat levels worldwide.

But dozens of Australians have died in terrorist attacks overseas, mostly in
Indonesia, including the 2002 Bali nightclub bombings.

The purported Somali-linked plot is the second major co-ordinated attack plan
exposed in Australia in recent years. Seven men were imprisoned in the past year
for a nascent plot to target thousands of spectators in an attack on a big
sporting event in Australia.

Australia became a staunch US ally in the war on terrorism after Sept. 11 and
has deployed forces to fight insurgents in Afghanistan.

Al-Shabaab has been fighting to overthrow Somalia's Western-backed transitional
government. It has claimed responsibility for several high-profile bombings and
shootings in the Somali capital of Mogadishu, targeting Ethiopian troops and
Somali government officials.

Washington has designated al-Shabaab as a terrorist group and says it has
provided safe havens to al-Qaida "elements" wanted for the 1998 bombings of the
US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 236 people. The two groups have
long been suspected of working together, but they have not announced a formal
alliance.

Magistrate Peter Reardon remanded Fattal and Sayed in custody and reappear in
court on October 26.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 5, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Australian police foil 'terrorist attack' on army base;
Hardline Somali Islamist terrorist group al-Shabaab thought to be behind plot

BYLINE: Roger Maynard IN SYDNEY

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 942 words


A PLOT BRANDED as potentially the worst terrorist attack in Australia's history
has been foiled in a dramatic series of pre-dawn arrests.

Police say that the four men taken from their homes in the southern city of
Melbourne yesterday were plotting to launch a suicide shoot-out at a Sydney army
base.

The men are said to have links with Somali terrorist group al-Shabaab, a
hardline Islamist youth group which has recently succeeded in recruiting Muslim
youths overseas and is said to have ties to al-Qa'ida.

Melbourne Magistrates' Court was told that the men were arrested after police
discovered plans to mount a martyr attack on the Holsworthy army base on the
outskirts of Sydney. The prosecution alleged that the men intended to open fire
on Australian soldiers and keep shooting until they themselves were killed or
captured. Their aim was to become martyrs, the court heard.

Prime Minister Kevin Rudd emphasised the gravity of the plot. "This is a sober
reminder that the threat of terrorism to Australia continues," he said.

But he defended Australia's continued involvement in the war in Afghanistan, the
presumed motive for the planned attack.

"If we are to deal with the treat of terrorism at its various levels we must be
dealing with where the terrorists are training," he said. "We must be dealing
with those who support them."

One of those arrested was later charged with conspiring to plan a
terrorism-related offence. Nayef El Sayed, 25, refused to stand before a
magistrate, insisting that his religious beliefs forbad him from standing for
any man except God. A fifth suspect is already in custody on another matter.

Fears of an imminent terrorist attack appear to have prompted the police to raid
the Melbourne homes yesterday. Intelligence sources said the mission, planned as
"punishment" for Australian military involvement in Muslim countries, was
believed to be well advanced. Police said further arrests were expected.

Investigators said that some Australian citizens had travelled to Somalia to
seek approval for their plan. And federal agent David Kinton told the court that
text messages had revealed that one of the men had carried out a recce on the
military base to assess security. "I stalked around - it is easy to enter," one
of the messages read.

Another text indicated that the would-be terrorists' geographical understanding
may not have been extensive. "Can you give me the address of Australia and the
name of train station?" the message asked.

But while the intercepted calls might have exposed some flaws in their travel
knowledge, Australian authorities last night said they believed the men's
intentions were deadly serious.

The acting commissioner of the Federal Police, Tony Negus, claimed, "We have
disrupted an alleged terror attack that could have claimed many lives."

Mr Negus said the planned action could have been the most serious attack on
Australian soil.

Those held yesterday were Australian citizens of Somali or Lebanese descent,
aged between 22 and 26. Their arrest left Melbourne's Somali community baffled.

Mohamed Baaruud from the Somali Advocacy Action Group said, "We are all shocked.
Our community came to Australia about 17 years ago when the civil war started in
Somalia. It took us a long time to recover from the trauma that we have
experienced in our country of origin and start a new life."

While many Australians have fallen victim to overseas terrorism such as the Bali
bombings, there have been few attacks at home. The last was a bombing near
Sydney's Hilton Hotel in l978.

However, Australia has been a keen supporter of western military activity in
Iraq and Afghanistan and has introduced tough anti-terrorism laws at home to
counter the threat from extremists.

In the past year seven men have been jailed for their role in a plot to attack
major sports events in Australia.

Extremist world view

Al-Shabaab

* What is al-Shabaab?

A fundamentalist militia born from the wreckage of the Islamic Courts Union in
Somalia over two years ago, al-Shabaab literally means "The Youth" in Arabic.
Its fighters, thought to number more than 20,000, first harassed Ethiopia's
occupying forces until they left the country late last year and are now
attempting to topple the Western-backed government in Mogadishu.

* What are its aims?

The group is demanding an even stricter interpretation of Islamic tenets than
the sharia law President Sheik Sharif Sheik Ahmed has imposed. They dismiss the
government as a Western stooge regime and have engaged in public executions and
mutilations in the areas they control.

* Is it linked to al-Qa'ida?

Al-Shabaab shares an extremist world view with al-Qa'ida and its operations have
attracted an unknown number of foreign jihadists to its ranks. However, its aims
remain local and threats to neighbouring Kenya and Ethiopia relate to their
involvement with Somalia. Washington backed Ethiopia's invasion of Somalia in
2006 on the grounds that the Islamic Courts Union was supposedly sheltering
al-Qa'ida operatives. However, that occupation was a disaster and spawned the
far more extreme al-Shabaab militia.

* Does al-Shabaab carry out operations abroad?

Not previously. But links between Shabaab militants and the large Somali
diaspora - such as that in Australia - could become a threat. Shirwa Ahmed, a US
citizen of Somali origin, became America's first known suicide bomber, blowing
himself up in Somalia last year after becoming radicalised in his hometown of
Minnesota. Other ethnic Somalis are under investigation in the US and there is
evidence of a recruitment drive among expat Somalis. Until now this has not
included attacks outside the Horn of Africa.

Daniel Howden

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            August 5, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Ulster Edition

4 HELD IN OZ TERROR RAIDS;
ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 62 words


FOUR men were arrested yesterday for plotting a suicide attack on military bases
including the HQ of the Australian SAS.

One arrested man even remained sitting in court claiming: "I stand for no man,
except God."

A total of 400 police officers carried out the raids after a seven-month probe.

The suspects were said to be linked to a Somali extremist group with ties to
al-Qaeda.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            August 5, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

JUNKIES BEAT MAN UP TO STEAL FIVER;
Victim is hit with metal pole in terror attack

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 379 words


A YOUNG man was put through a terrifying ordeal by a couple of desperate junkies
who beat him up to steal just a few pounds.

The 24-year-old victim was battered to the ground by the pair after being hit on
the head with a metal pole. As he lay dazed and helpless the panic-stricken
victim screamed in the hope someone would hear him or the robbers would take
off.

But no-one heard him and the attackers rifled his pockets and snatched more than
pounds 5, some cigarettes and a lighter.

One source said: "To put a man through all that for a miserable fiver is
pathetic."

The nasty assault happened at around 11.30pm on Monday as the victim was walking
home alone from work.

As he went from Kings Inch Road, Renfrew, heading for nearby Station Road, two
men emerged from a wooded area, near an electricity sub-station, and he heard
footsteps behind him.

The source added: "He felt a bit nervous and started walking faster then crossed
over to the other side of the road. But the men behind him also began walking
faster and he could still hear them close behind him.

"Suddenly, he was hit on the head. The blow knocked him to the ground and it was
around that point he started screaming as loudly as he could.

"He hoped it might frighten his attackers away or someone would come to his
rescue. But there was no one about at that time of night.

"The robbers went through his pockets and took what they wanted. He didn't have
much on him apart from a few quid, cigarettes and a lighter."

He went on: "It was a very scary few minutes. Hearing the footsteps of two men
behind you then the footsteps getting faster as you walk quicker must have been
frightening."

Last night as he recovered from his ordeal police hunting the robbers were
looking at CCTV footage in the hope the duo had been caught on film.

Police investigating the incident said the attackers were described as having a
junkie appearance.

One officer said: "The victim was badly shaken but didn't go to hospital for
treatment. We want to hear from anyone who saw or heard anything that Monday
night.

"People living in that area may have heard a person screaming around 11.30pm. If
that is the case we would ask them to ring Johnstone Police Office on 01505
404000 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Asian Image

                                 August 6, 2009

Death sentence for terror attacks trio

SECTION: WORLD NEWS (WORLD)

LENGTH: 176 words


Three people, including a woman, convicted for killing at least 52 people in the
2003 Mumbai terror attacks were today given death sentences.

Haneef Sayyed, 46, and his 43-year-old wife Fahmeeda were found guilty of
planting a bomb at the Gateway of India, a popular tourist destination in the
city.

Ashrat Ansari, 32, was found guilty of planting a second bomb at the crowded
Zaveri Bazaar.

Last week, the special anti-terrorism court in Mumbai convicted all three of
conspiracy, murder and attempt to murder over the twin blasts. The trial had
continued for six years.

Earlier this week, Sayyed had appealed for a life sentence on the grounds that
he would never seek parole.

Special prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam had reportedly called it a "rarest of rare" case
in which they had "enjoyed their act of killing".

The three are accused of membership of banned terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba
which has also been blamed for last year's attack in Mumbai.

This is the first time a husband and wife have been held guilty of terror
activities in the country.

By Dielle D'Souza

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 6, 2009 Thursday

Hillary Clinton visits scene of 1997 terrorist attack on US embassy in Kenya

LENGTH: 122 words


Text of report by state-owned KBC (Kenya Broadcasting Corporation) Radio on 6
August

United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton this afternoon fielded
questions from journalists and other guests at a press conference held at the
University of Nairobi's Taifa Hall.

In her remarks, Mrs Clinton said she was concerned with the problems bedevilling
the African continent, but maintains that it was incumbent on African leaders to
embrace prudent leadership.

Earlier in the morning, the United States Secretary of State visited the US
Memorial Park, the scene of the August 1997 bomb blast and she is scheduled to
leave for South Africa later today as part of her African tour.

Source: KBC Radio, Nairobi, in English 1000 gmt 6 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            August 6, 2009, Thursday

WARNING ON TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 126 words


SCOTLAND needs to do more to prepare for a terror attack or swine flu pandemic,
watchdogs have warned.

Audit Scotland carried out a probe into planning for emergencies by public
bodies and businesses.

They found the public were "generally not informed" about the risks they faced.

And nearly half of businesses surveyed said they were "not very well" informed
about the emergency plans in place.

Auditor general Robert Black said: "Recent events have ranged from a terrorist
attack at Glasgow airport, through to the risks to fuel supplies caused by
industrial action, flooding as a result of severe weather and most recently the
swine flu pandemic.

"These have all highlighted the importance of having effective emergency
planning and response systems in place."

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 6, 2009 Thursday 1:24 PM GMT

Iranian opposition groups launch new terror attacks against missile bases

BYLINE: By Con Coughlin

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 296 words


I hear from Iranian dissidents that a leading opposition group has carried out
further terror attacks against the Islamic regime, this time against one of the
country's main ballistic missile bases on the outskirts of Tabriz. This follows
last weekend's attack when the Abu Bakr group was credited with blowing up a
stategically important freight bridge in the southern city of Ahwaz, which is
used by the Revolutionary Guards to ship weapons from the main coastal port of
Bandar Imam Khomeini.

Because of the security clampdown imposed by the Iranian authorities to
preventmedia coverage of these attacks, it is impossible to verify the claims.
But my Iranian sources, which have proved to be highly reliable in the past,
tell me that Abu Bakr has extended its activities to carry out an attack against
a Revolutionary Guard convoy that was delivering equipment for a new round of
ballistic missile tests.

The attack took place on the access road to the Revolutionary Guard-controlled
missile base at Tabriz. Two vehicles were reportedly destroyed in the attack,
but there is no information available about casualties as the area was
immediately sealed off by the Guards and security personnel after the attack. A
number of green posters - green is the colour of the Iranian opposition - were
found at the scene in which Abu Bakr forces claimed responsibility.

If true, this latest attack will send shock waves through the higher echelons of
the Iranian regime, as it suggests opposition groups can strike right at the
heart of the regime's military infrastructure.

It also suggests that despite the brutal repression of opposition activiststhat
has taken placeJune's dispute presidential election, opposition groups are
prepared to maintain their campaign against the government.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                             August 7, 2009 Friday

Bathtime Terror Attack

BYLINE: James Marley

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 89 words


A FAMILY barricaded themselves in the bathroom as masked armed raiders hacked
down the door.

Naomi Miller was bathing three of her children when Craig Hutchinson, above
left, and Keith Kent broke into their home looking to steal the family's
computer.

A four-year-old leapt on to the windowsill and screamed for help.  And when a
neighbour came to help the pair turned on him.

Hutchinson, 19, and Kent, 30, admitted robbery and aggravated burglary at
Newcastle Crown Court. They  were jailed for four and four-and-a-half years
respectively.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                             August 7, 2009 Friday

Terror Attack At Bathtime

SECTION: A; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 569 words


BATHTIME turned to terror when armed raiders burst into a family home.

Three youngsters, aged between two and four, were being bathed by their mum when
masked Craig Hutchinson and Keith Kent broke into their house looking to steal
the family's computer.

As the children cowered in the bath, Hutchinson, who had downed four litres of
wine and washed down 14 valium tablets, began punching and hacking at the
bathroom door with a screwdriver, shouting "Open, open".

Despite her terror, a four-year-old girl had the presence of mind to jump on to
the window sill and scream for help.

Neighbour Clive Gardner heard the child's pleas for help and went to try to help
but Hutchinson and Kent then turned their attentions on him, attacking and
robbing him.

Jailing the pair at Newcastle Crown Court, Judge Esmond Faulks told them: "High
on drink and drugs the pair of you burst into a family home.

"The children were utterly terrifed and began to scream and opened the bathroom
window and screamed for help."

The youngest three of Naomi Miller's seven children were in the bath around
7.30pm on February 4 when the pair struck.

Hutchinson burst in through the back door of the house in Ravenscourt Place,
Bensham, Gateshead and shouted at the four older children "Don't move, don't
move".

He then went to the front door to let Kent in and they went up to the bathroom
where Mrs Miller and the younger children were hiding.

Alexia Zimbler, prosecuting, said: "They began banging and shouting on the door
and shouting  Open, open'.

"The three youngest daughters in the bath were terrified and started crying and
screaming.

"They were punching and striking the door with the screwdriver and the door
began making a cracking noise and they feared it would break.

"The four-year-old girl in the bath jumped on the window sill and opened the
window and began shouting and screaming for help out of the window.

"Mrs Miller was still in the bathroom and was absolutely terrified and fearing
for her children downstairs."

Another child ran outside screaming  They are going to hurt mummy' and at that
point Mr Gardner decided to intervene.

He armed himself with a kitchen knife and went inside the house and told the
pair to get out.

But the knife was knocked from his hand and Hutchinson and Kent turned their
attentions to him, punching him and demanding his cash and bank cards.

Meanwhile two police officers in the area had turned up after hearing the
children screaming for help.

Mrs Zimbler said: "The officers heard the hysterical girl screaming for help.

"They saw a naked child shouting from the upper window. She was saying  I'm
scared, I'm scared'.

Hutchinson, 19, from Eastbourne Avenue, Gateshead and Kent, 30, of Westbourne
Avenue, Gateshead, both admitted robbery and aggravated burglary and were locked
up for four and four-and-a-half years respectively.

Stuart Graham, for Hutchinson, said: "The fact is he was completely out of it
having drunk four litres of wine and taken 14 valium tablets.

"This started because of a laptop that was seen in the window by these
defendants."

Paul Currah, for Kent, said: "The amount of terror and fear he would have caused
to the children in the house is a matter of great concern to him now he is
sober.

"He feels empathy as to how he would feel if that happened to him because he is
a father himself.

"If it were possible he would like to be able to apologise to them personally
and to speak to them."

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 8, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Russia blamed for cyber terror blitz;
Attack on Twitter and Facebook designed to silence Georgian blogger Russian bid
to silence blogger is blamed for Twitter shutdown

BYLINE: Jerome Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words


Russian hackers have been accused of being behind an enormous cyber attack which
temporarily shut down two of the world's most popular social networking sites in
order to silence a Georgian blogger who is critical of Moscow's policies in the
Caucasus.

Twitter went offline for several hours on Thursday whilst Facebook and
Livejournal suffered major slowdowns following a large distributed
denial-of-service (DDOS) attack which flooded their networks. The attacks are
believed to have been aimed at a 34-year-old Georgian economics lecturer who has
written blogs critical of Russia's military presence in the area.

Hackers use DDOS attacks to flood a website's servers with communication
requests from a network of thousands of compromised computers, forcing the
website to temporarily shut down. The paralysing effect of the attack, which
severely compromised two websites that are regularly used by political
dissidents, has raised fresh questions over the vulnerability of internet and
the growing potential of cyber warfare as an effective weapon.

As Facebook and Twitter launched investigations yesterday into where the attack
on their site originated, a blogger who writes under the name of "Cyxymu"
announced that he had been the first target of the attack.

Speaking to reporters yesterday the blogger, who only gave his first name,
Georgy, pointed the finger of blame at the Russian government. "Maybe it was
carried out by ordinary hackers but I'm certain the order came from the Russian
government," he said. "An attack on such a scale that affected three worldwide
services with numerous servers could only be organised by someone with huge
resources."

Max Kelly, Facebook's chief security officer, refused to be drawn over where the
attack came from but he did confirm that the original target was Cyxymu - whose
name is a latinised version of the Russian spelling of Sukhumi, the capital of
the Georgian breakaway republic, Abkhazia.

"It was a simultaneous attack across a number of properties targeting him to
keep his voice from being heard," said Mr Kelly. "You have to ask who would
benefit from doing this and think about what those people are doing and the
disregard for the rest of the users and the internet."

In recent years DDOS attacks have become increasingly used by both criminal
networks and, security experts suspect, foreign governments to either extort
money from crippled networks or silence political dissidence. Earlier this
summer the Government confirmed that the largest cyber threats against Britain
come from hackers in Russia and China and announced the creation of a "cyber
security operations centre" to counter the threat. Barack Obama has also made
cyber-based enemies a national security priority and has set up his own "cyber
security office" which was hit by a DDOS attack earlier this year.

Rik Fergusson, a cyber security expert at Trend Micro, said a DDOS attack relies
on a network of thousands of compromised computers which can only be accessed
with large amounts of preparation or rented from organised criminal syndicates.

"You either have to have lots of money to rent the network or you need to have
put in a lot of groundwork to hack into and compromise the machines that do the
attack on your behalf," he said. "Once you have that together, launching the
actual attack can be done from a simple netbook. Either way we are seeing a lot
more of these attacks and will continue to do so."

When fighting broke out between Georgia and Russia last summer over the
breakaway republic of South Ossetia, the Russian advance was complimented by a
giant DDOS attack on many of the Georgian government's websites which made it
difficult for ministries to co-ordinate the war.

The Dalai Lama asked Canadian investigators to inspect the Tibetan
government-in-exile's computers after suspecting that the Chinese government had
infiltrated their systems. In March the investigators announced that they had
uncovered a vast espionage network run out of China which had infiltrated 1,295
computers in 103 countries. The so-called "Gh0stnet" spying operation had
resulted in the theft of documents from scores of computers belonging to
embassies, foreign ministries and government offices around the world.

Georgia, one year on Pages 24&25

The attack

How it was done

* Though the phrase "distributed denial-of-service attack" may conjure up images
of striking Tube drivers, its true meaning was revealed yesterday when hackers
brought swathes of the internet to a standstill; and if you have ever visited a
sketchy website or clicked on a dodgy link in an email, then you may have been
involved in it.

As the BBC Click programme demonstrated in an experiment of dubious legality a
few months ago, when the few essential ingredients needed to carry out a "DDOS"
attack are in place, the disruption can be catastrophic.

Members of the internet's criminal underworld bought from a forum a "botnet" - a
network of thousands of computers infected with software downloaded without the
users' knowledge. The computers are "zombified" on command by the software and
instructed, en masse, to bombard websites with requests so numerous that the
sites often end up offline.

A botnet of 1.9m machines was found in April and included infected computers
belonging to 77 governments as well as to home users. It was hired out by a gang
of cyber mercenaries, at a rate of $100 for 1,000 computers, to those keen to
stage large-scale attacks capable of bringing down some of the world's
best-protected sites.

Attacks on government sites and state infrastructure have become a worrying new
front in warfare, most prominently in the Russia-Georgia conflict, but an attack
focusing massive resources on silencing an individual, is, so far, mercifully
rare.

Jack Riley

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                            August 8, 2009 Saturday

Doctor Linked To Terror Attacks  won't Be Deported'

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 215 words


THE Government is no longer seeking to deport the doctor accused of involvement
in the London and Glasgow bomb plots, sources said yesterday.

The Home Office had maintained that despite Mohammed Asha being cleared at
trial, he still presented a  threat to national security.

The case against him was due to be heard by the Special Immigration Appeals
Commission (Siac) in October, but has been withdrawn.

At a Siac bail hearing in January, lawyers for the Home Secretary said Dr Asha
was a threat to national security and should be sent back to Jordan.

But the panel, chaired by Mr Justice Mitting, ruled he could be released on bail
on the condition that he reported to a police station near his Birmingham home
once a week.

At the hearing, the Home Office maintained Dr Asha had provided "substantial
funds" to Iraqi doctor Bilal Abdulla, who was sentenced to 32 years in prison
for conspiracy to murder.

Abdulla, and Kafeel Ahmed who died in the attacks, plotted to kill hundreds of
people by planting two bombs in the West End in June 2007.

When that failed, they drove a Jeep packed with petrol bombs and gas canisters
into a terminal building at  Glasgow Airport.

Dr Asha was accused of conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause explosions
but was cleared by a jury at Woolwich Crown Court.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             August 9, 2009 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

'TORTURE EVIDENCE OK';
MPS: INFO FROM SUSPECTS SHOULD BE USED TO THWART TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: ADRIAN BUTLER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 227 words


ANTI-TERROR chiefs should use intelligence from suspects who have been tortured
if it prevents another 7/7 attack, a toplevel report says.

It states: "The Government has a duty to use information that comes into its
possession - from whatever source and however obtained - if it believes this
will avert the loss of life." The ruling from the Commons foreign affairs
committee will be condemned by campaigners who accuse Britain of helping the US
torture suspects abroad. Fiftytwo people were killed by four British suicide
bombers in the 2005 attack on the London transport system. A similar plot two
weeks later failed because of faulty explosives.

However, the report also makes it clear that intelligence chiefs should attempt
to halt foreign regimes using torture methods, investigate allegations and
expose it.

James Welch, of campaign group Liberty, said it was a direct attack on the
Government's "see no evil" approach to torture. Foreign Secretary David Miliband
will officially comment on the report later. Campaigners have previously accused
MI5 of helping the US torture suspects abroad.

Guantanamo Bay detainee Binyam Mohamed claimed British agents were "complicit"
in him being tortured in Morocco - which has been strongly denied. Condemned
methods include "waterboarding" when water is poured on suspects' faces so they
feel like they are drowning.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Claims... Mohamed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                             August 10, 2009 Monday

Man caught up in terror attack tells of ordeal

BYLINE: John Thomson

SECTION: NEWS; PEOPLE; Events; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 497 words


A north-east man who survived two days trapped in a hotel room while the
building was at the centre of a terrorist attack has spoken about his ordeal for
the first time.

Senior human resources manager Roger Hunt, from Macduff, found himself under
siege in his room at the Oberoi Hotel in Mumbai after it was targeted by Islamic
extremists.

He claims his predicament was "absolutely life or death" and that a will to
survive and thoughts of his family got him through it.

Mr Hunt, 43, of Corskie Drive, got caught up in the carnage of a co-ordinated
raid on hotels and businesses in the Indian city's financial hub.

He arrived in Mumbai on a week-long business trip for the Royal Bank of
Scotland, where he was a human resources manager. Two days later, as he finished
dinner in the Oberoi Hotel restaurant and walked across the lobby, a group of
men arrived and began firing machine guns.

He said: "I turned to look and I watched them open fire with their machine guns.
They sprayed the bullets right where I had been sitting."

Mr Hunt took the lift to his room on the 14th floor and told other guests - who
though celebratory fireworks had gone off - what had happened.

He grabbed his flight ticket, car keys and passport and thought the trouble was
a local feud that would soon be over.

However, a bomb planted by terrorists rocked the hotel and started fires on the
13th and 14th floors.

As his room started to fill with smoke, Mr Hunt contacted a banking colleague in
Mumbai so he could alert the fire services to his location.

He said: "Leaving the room, I knew I faced certain death with gunmen on the
loose."

For the next two days, Mr Hunt remained in his room while terrorists swept the
hotel room by room looking for occupants.

To protect himself from bomb blasts, he placed a large sofa in a corner of the
room and hid behind it.

As the hours dragged by, he could hear gunfire and explosions as guests were
shot.

As his ordeal continued, bank colleagues in Edinburgh passed information about
his plight to MI5 agents, who were working with Indian anti-terrorist group the
Black Cats to rescue him.

Two days into his ordeal, Mr Hunt heard a violent crash and muffled shouts in
the next room.

After a period of silence, he heard more voices and thought the terrorists were
at his door.

He said: "There was a crash as the door was forced and I could hear quick and
heavy footsteps sweeping into the room.

"I could hear safety catches of automatic weapons being switched off and light
invaded as a curtain was pulled back."

To his immense relief, the three armed men in his room were members of the Black
Cats.

Mr Hunt was finally freed and was able to call his wife, Irene, 43, and family
Lisa, 21, Stephanie, 14, and Christopher, 19, at Macduff.

He said: "Being free was one of the best feelings in the world, because there
were times I despaired.

"I have learned to live with what happened to me, but there isn't a day goes by
when something reminds me of it."

He is planning a book about his ordeal.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Roger Hunt from Macduff had a terrifying experience
Roger Hunt: trapped

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ


                      Copyright 2009 Aberdeen Journals Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                             August 10, 2009 Monday

Top terror suspect 'planned bomb attack on president'

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 505 words


A leading south-east Asian terrorist suspect reportedly killed in a gun battle
with police at a village hideout was planning a suicide car bomb attack on
Indonesia's president, the national police chief said.

Police said they could not confirm that the body recovered yesterday from the
house in central Java was that of Noordin Mohammad Top until DNA tests were
complete.

Noordin is suspected of having masterminded south-east Asia's worst terror
attacks, some with al-Quaida backing. If verified, his death would be a major
victory in Indonesia's fight against Islamist militants blamed for five major
bombings that killed 250 people, including attacks on Bali island in 2002 and
2005.

National police Chief Bambang Hendarso Danuri said Noordin and other militants
had been plotting to bomb the home of President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.

Police also raided a house on the outskirts of Jakarta where they killed two
suspected militants and seized bombs and a car rigged to carry them, the police
chief said.

The house is three miles from the president's residence.

He said the decision to attack Mr Yudhoyono was made at an April 30 meeting led
by Noordin because of the government's decision to execute three convicted Bali
bombers.

Mr Yudhoyono told reporters he had been briefed about an ongoing operation "to
uphold law and to eradicate terrorism," but made no mention of Noordin.

"I extend my highest gratitude and respect to the police for their brilliant
achievement in this operation," he said.

Noordin is also suspected of planning last month's suicide bombings at the JW
Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotels in Jakarta that killed seven people and ended a
four-year pause in terror strikes in Indonesia, the world's most populous
Muslim-majority nation.

He eluded capture for about seven years despite a massive crackdown by
Indonesian authorities that netted more than 200 suspected militants.

Malaysian citizen Noordin claimed in a video in 2005 to be al-Quaida's
representative in south-east Asia and to be carrying out attacks on Western
civilians to avenge Muslim deaths in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Officers surrounded the central Java house late on Friday after making arrests
in a nearby town. At one point they sent remote-controlled robots into the
isolated building to search for bombs.

TV stations reported that Noordin was killed in the 16-hour siege. The remains
of a man thought to be Noordin were flown from the location to Jakarta for an
autopsy.

"If Noordin M Top was captured or killed, this would be extremely good news and
a huge step forward for Indonesia's struggle against terrorism," Jim
Della-Giacoma, south-east Asia project director for the International Crisis
Group think-tank, said.

"Whether or not the risk of further attacks declines depends on who else is
arrested or killed with Noordin."

Noordin is also believed to have orchestrated an earlier attack on the JW
Marriott Hotel in 2003 and a massive suicide truck-bombing outside the
Australian embassy in 2004 which together killed dozens and wounded hundreds.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 11, 2009 Tuesday

US, Canada issue travel alerts warning of terror attacks in India

LENGTH: 291 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 11 Aug: The US and Canada have issued fresh travel alerts to its
citizens in India, warning them of possible terrorist attacks ahead of
Independence Day on 15 August.

Asking their citizens to practice good security, both the countries have advised
them to maintain high level of awareness at crowded places.

"American citizens are advised to be alert to the continued possibility of
terrorist attacks.

"There is a continuing threat from terrorism throughout India and the upcoming
series of major holidays (including 15 August Independence Day celebrations)
could provide terrorist groups an opportunity or pretext to stage an attack," a
message put up on the US embassy website said.

This is second such alert issued by the US in less than two-and-a-half-months.

"Canadians travelling to India should be particularly vigilant in the lead up to
and on days of national significance, as militants have used such occasions to
mount attacks in the past.

"In the lead up to Independence Day, the Indian government has increased
security throughout the country, particularly in the cities of Delhi, Kolkata
and Hyderabad," a travel warning, posted on the Canadian High Commission
website, said.

"The November 2008 attacks in Mumbai provided a vivid reminder that luxury
hotels are especially attractive targets for terrorist groups," the US alert
said.

Canada said its citizens "are strongly encouraged to maintain a high level of
vigilance, remain aware of their local surroundings, monitor local news reports,
follow the advice of local authorities, avoid crowded places, and take
appropriate steps to increase their personal security.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1148gmt 11 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 12, 2009 Wednesday

Spanish editorial urges tourists to enjoy holidays despite ETA terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 509 words


Text of report by Spanish newspaper La Vanguardia website on 11 August

[Editorial: "Holidays Against ETA"]

Spanish and foreign tourists should enjoy their holidays in Majorca as if
nothing had happened. That is the best response to give ETA [Basque Fatherland
and Liberty] after the four bombs that it set off on Sunday [ 9 August] in
Palma, 10 days after killing two civil guards with a car bomb in that same city.

Terrorists should not achieve their objective of disturbing the lives of
ordinary citizens and scaring the population. This was the message that the
royal family wanted to give everyone by continuing their holidays on the island
as normal.

The bombs that exploded on Sunday in four tourist areas of Majorca were not very
powerful and luckily only caused material damage. The police are trying to find
out if the ETA members who planted the bombs are the same ones that killed the
Civil Guard officers in the Palmanova district of the Balearic Island's capital
on 30 July, focusing their search on France. Regardless of where they are, the
terrorists must know that, sooner or later, they will be arrested, they will be
subject to judicial prosecution, and they will be sent to prison. That is what
has always happened in the 50-year history of this group of criminals.

The police have stepped up their work to guarantee maximum security and to
locate the ETA members. They have multiplied checks and implemented strict
surveillance across the island. However, to do this, they need the public's
cooperation and they are asking for anyone who sees anything strange or
suspicious to let them know.

The police successes of the last few years have drastically weakened ETA, but
that does not mean that it has lost its ability to kill and cause pain, as it
has shown over the last few weeks. But ETA members should realize that violence
will only lead to courts and prisons. They have lost the battle. It is a useless
path based on the wrong ideas.

The planting of bombs during the summer months is one of ETA's usual strategies,
because it thinks that it will damage a key sector of the Spanish economy and
gain greater notoriety abroad. But experience has shown that it has never
damaged tourism and that its notoriety abroad is only damaging. The same will
happen on this occasion. For now, fears that the attacks in Palma could affect
tourism have not led to increased cancellations of bookings.

In any case, we must always be on the alert against ETA. With its current
campaign of attacks, the terrorist group is trying to show its strength, hoping
that the dialogue process might resume. But they should know that this is no
longer possible. They have shown Spanish society that they are unreliable
negotiators and that the only path ahead is to renounce arms and that there will
be political, police, and judicial prosecution until each and every one of them
is in prison. The unity of all the parliamentary parties continues to be
essential. Any crack would only encourage terrorism.

Source: La Vanguardia website, Barcelona, in Spanish 11 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                             Lancaster Evening Post

                           August 12, 2009 Wednesday

Girl, 17, in sex attack terror

LENGTH: 226 words



HIGHLIGHT: A teenage girl was dragged onto a wooded footpath in Preston and
sexually assaulted.


Detectives have launched a hunt for the attacker who struck as the 17-year-old
walked down Longridge Road close to the Grange estate in Preston between 10.45pm
and 11.15pm on Tuesday.

The pervert, described as tall and wearing dark clothing, snatched the girl as
she walked down the main road towards Grange to catch a bus.

She was dragged onto a wooded footpath and forced to the ground, banging her
head and cutting it.

The man held a weapon, thought to be a knife, to her throat and threatened to
kill her.

He then indecently assaulted her.

The ordeal lasted for around a minute before the thug ran off.

Members of public are being urged to come forward if they have information about
the "worrying" attack.

Detectives have stressed it is not linked to an incident in which two women were
assaulted in Preston city centre on Thursday night.

Det Insp Dave McKenna of Preston CID, said: "This is a very worrying incident
and this man must be caught as soon as possible. We believe he had a local
accent.

"We would urge anyone who may have driven down Longridge Road around that time,
or anyone who knows the attackers identity to come forward as a matter of
urgency."

Anyone with information should call Preston Police on 01772 203203 or
Crimestopppers on 0800 555111.

>> Vote in our latest web poll

i-map: All the news from around the North West on our interactive map

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PRES


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Leek Post and Times

                                August 12, 2009

Barman tells of fears after attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 294 words


From:  Page 1

Finbar said: "I'm a bit apprehensive about going out now but I won't let it
affect me.

"I would do the same again because, not only is it the law, if I hadn't refused
to serve him he may have got more drunk, and could have kicked off in the club
and hurt somebody."

Just one week before the incident, Dave Payne, another member of the bar staff
at Metropolis, was arrested and fined £80 for serving what under-cover police
officers classed as drunks.

The 22-year-old - who has done a licensing course - said: "It was a busy night
and the two people I served didn't appear to be that drunk. I  nearly ended up
quitting."

Metropolis manager Martin Cross confirmed the club would not be allowing the man
accused of the attack back into the premises. He is also applying for him to go
on the Pub Watch scheme.

Martin - who insists his bar staff refuse to serve five or six drunk people in
an average night - said: "You're damned if you do and you're damned if you
don't. The issue is, there is no legal definition of drunk.

"It's a shame for Finbar and his family."

Acting Inspector Lee Crowther said police officers were using under-cover
tactics to target bars which illegally sell alcohol to those already drunk or
under age drinkers. He confirmed one fine had been issued in Leek.

But Julie said: "It would have been better for us if Finbar had served that
drunk - an £80 fine would be better than this."

A Staffordshire Police spokesman said: "An 18-year-old man has been arrested and
questioned in relation to criminal damage at a property on Hillswood Avenue in
Leek.

"He has been released on police bail with no charge pending further
investigation. A number of items were seized by scene of crime officers which
are undergoing a detailed forensics examination."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 204


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Leek Post and Times

                                August 12, 2009

Barman tells of fears after attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 294 words


From:  Page 1

Finbar said: "I'm a bit apprehensive about going out now but I won't let it
affect me.

"I would do the same again because, not only is it the law, if I hadn't refused
to serve him he may have got more drunk, and could have kicked off in the club
and hurt somebody."

Just one week before the incident, Dave Payne, another member of the bar staff
at Metropolis, was arrested and fined £80 for serving what under-cover police
officers classed as drunks.

The 22-year-old - who has done a licensing course - said: "It was a busy night
and the two people I served didn't appear to be that drunk. I  nearly ended up
quitting."

Metropolis manager Martin Cross confirmed the club would not be allowing the man
accused of the attack back into the premises. He is also applying for him to go
on the Pub Watch scheme.

Martin - who insists his bar staff refuse to serve five or six drunk people in
an average night - said: "You're damned if you do and you're damned if you
don't. The issue is, there is no legal definition of drunk.

"It's a shame for Finbar and his family."

Acting Inspector Lee Crowther said police officers were using under-cover
tactics to target bars which illegally sell alcohol to those already drunk or
under age drinkers. He confirmed one fine had been issued in Leek.

But Julie said: "It would have been better for us if Finbar had served that
drunk - an £80 fine would be better than this."

A Staffordshire Police spokesman said: "An 18-year-old man has been arrested and
questioned in relation to criminal damage at a property on Hillswood Avenue in
Leek.

"He has been released on police bail with no charge pending further
investigation. A number of items were seized by scene of crime officers which
are undergoing a detailed forensics examination."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 204


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Messenger Newspapers

                           August 12, 2009 Wednesday

Landlord tells of terror gang attack at pub

BYLINE: Hannah Al-Taraboulsy

SECTION: SALE MOOR

LENGTH: 284 words


A LANDLORD has spoken about the speed in which a gang of armed robbers burst
into a Brooklands pub before fleeing with cash.

At 12.45am on Monday, Alan Sheridan, who runs the Wendover Hotel, on Wendover
Road, was alone in the pub when three masked men smashed through four glass fire
doors in the time it took him to walk the length of the bar.

Alan said: "I had just locked the front door after closing and walked round to
the office, about 25ft, when the three robbers smashed through all four fire
doors to the vault. It was so fast it was unbelievable, they must have been
watching and waiting until I was alone.

"One held a crow bar and the other a chair leg. They demanded I open the safe
and the till, which I did. They also took money from a fruit machine before
fleeing. The whole incident must have been over in six minutes, although it felt
like a lifetime."

The shaken landlord believed his co-operation meant he came out of the ordeal
uninjured and said: "If I hadn't done what they said they might have whacked me
with that crow bar. I'm just glad I wasn't hurt."

The offenders were described as white, aged between 20 and 25 and around 5ft
10ins tall, with one being slightly taller. They were all wearing dark clothing
and had Manchester accents.

Detective Constable Ceri Bolton, said: "This was a really frightening experience
for the landlord. Fortunately he was not hurt.

"The pub was very busy on Sunday, with many people watching the football, so
there may have been a few people hanging round after closing time. I'd urge
anyone who saw anything to call us."

Anyone with any information should call police on 0161 856 6153 or the
independent charity, Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      August 13, 2009 Thursday 2:32 PM BST

PAYOUTS HOPE FOR VICTIMS OF TERROR ATTACKS ABROAD

BYLINE: Jack Doyle, Press Association Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words


Victims of terror attacks abroad could be in line for Government payouts, it was
revealed today.

Unlike victims of domestic atrocities, anyone injured or killed overseas is not
entitled to compensation.

Ministers looking at extending the scheme to overseas victims ruled the payouts
should not be made retrospective.

If the decision had stood, it would exclude around 200 Britons caught up in
atrocities such as Mumbai and Bali.

Freelance film-maker Will Pike, from London, who suffered serious spinal
injuries in the Mumbai attacks, is campaigning for a change in the law after
being told he would be entitled to only £15,000 from a Red Cross fund.

In a letter from Cabinet Office Minister Tessa Jowell he was told he would not
be eligible for a Government payout.

But today it emerged ministers will look again at extending the scheme to cover
victims of previous attacks.

Mr Pike told Sky News: ``I am the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the amount
of people who have been affected over the last five years.

``It is very strange for it not to cover people like myself and people caught in
the Bali bombings.

``It feels very unfair because we are the people who have been trying so hard
and for so long.''

The 29-year-old and his girlfriend Kelly Doyle were staying in the Taj Mahal
hotel in Mumbai on the night of November 26 last year, at the end of their
holiday.

When terrorists broke into the building, the couple tied sheets together and
tried to climb down the side of the hotel but Mr Pike fell three storeys,
leaving him wheelchair bound.

A Ministry of Justice spokesman said: ``Jack Straw has made victims' rights one
of his top priorities since becoming Justice Secretary.

``We have delivered major improvements, but the Government will continue to work
tirelessly to find further ways of supporting the victims of all crimes.

``A working group has been set up to look at the issue of improved support for
victims of terrorism abroad and ministers are carefully considering their
recommendations.''

Margaret Lally, British Red Cross head of UK operations, said: ``The £15,000
Will received came from the Red Cross Relief Fund for Victims of Terrorism
Abroad which was established in 2007 to support people from Britain who are
injured or bereaved by acts of terrorism overseas.

``The purpose of the grant is to help those affected deal with the immediate
financial difficulties they may experience following a terrorist incident, and
is not intended as compensation for injuries or trauma suffered.

``Will received the maximum possible amount from the fund of both an initial
£3,000 and a further £12,000 follow-up grant to help cover emergency costs
following the attack.

``This kind of support can make a huge difference to the lives of people caught
up in terrorist attacks such as those in Mumbai.''

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 13, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

PAIR SHOT IN LEGS BY TERRORISTS;
Attacks linked, say cops

BYLINE: JASON JOHNSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 166 words


A MAN and his brother-in-law have been shot and seriously wounded in two
paramilitarystyle attacks.

They were blasted in the legs within minutes of each other at their homes in
Derry on Tuesday night.

One victim is believed to have been wounded in the groin and the other, fresh
from jail on Monday, was shot as his partner and two daughters were in another
room.

Cops believe the shootings are linked. Both men live in Derry's Republican
Creggan Estate area.

Masked men shot Davy Knight, 31, three times in his home in Melmore Gardens. He
was being treated for his injuries in Altnagelvin hospital.

Noel Lavy, 31, was also shot three times in a house in Creggan Heights.

Detectives believe the attacks were carried out by dissident Republicans.

Foyle SDLP MLA Pat Ramsay said: "We must put our faith in the law of the land,
not the law of the jungle."

Meanwhile, a man was treated in hospital after being beaten by a gang with
baseball bats on Tuesday night in Coleraine, Co Derry.

j.johnson@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                             August 14, 2009 Friday

Couple in baseball bat terror attack

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS (BOLTON NEWS)

LENGTH: 84 words


A YOUNG couple were attacked with baseball bats and pepper spray during a
burglary at their home in Hindley.

A man, aged 19, and his 18-year-old girlfriend were in bed at their home in
Ruabon Crescent when they heard someone kicking in the front door.

The man was attacked with a hammer and baseball bat when he went downstairs to
investigate. His girlfriend was then sprayed in the face with pepper spray. The
attackers ran off with £30.

The man suffered puncture wounds to his face and bruising to his head.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                            August 15, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Terror attacks changed planespotting, but we still have 80 yearsof history to
look back on ;
NEW BOOK WITH FASCINATING MEMORIES CHARTS AIRPORTâEUR[TM]S DEVELOPMENT of
history to look back on

BYLINE: JEFF HOLMES

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 567 words


AUTHOR Keith McCloskeyâEUR[TM]s passion for plane spotting has taken him all
over the world.

ItâEUR[TM]s a lifelong hobby that was initially fuelled by his fatherâEUR[TM]s
job as a pilot with Aer Lingus.

Of course, itâEUR[TM]s a harmless pastime, apart from the time he was arrested
at Schipol Airport on suspicion of spying!

But the prolific writer has put his knowledge to good use by penning
GlasgowâEUR[TM]s Airports âEUR" Renfrew and Abbotsinch, the story behind
ScotlandâEUR[TM]s busiest airport.

He told the Express: âEURoeI was born in Dublin, raised in Nigeria and grew up
latterly in Edinburgh.

âEURoeMy happiest moments were spent sitting outside the old Renfrew and
Abbotsinch AirportâEUR[TM]s though.

âEURoeI would drive through in the morning, pitch up and get the sandwiches out
âEUR" it was so relaxing.

âEURoePlanespotting is a fantastic hobby and although Turnhouse Airport was
closer to my Edinburgh home, I would invariably head for Renfrew.

âEURoeThe planes there were far more exotic, much more exciting than you would
ever see at Edinburgh.

âEURoeYou had VC10âEUR[TM] s, 707âEUR[TM] s and DC8âEUR[TM] s âEUR" all the good
planes flew in to what would eventually become Glasgow Airport.âEUR

Keith, 56, was approached by publishers The History House at the tail end of
2007 and asked to take over the writing of the airport book.

The initial author had dropped out and the aviation enthusiast seemed the
logical choice to deputise.

He said: âEURoeThe entire project took around 20 months to complete and ran
fairly smoothly.

âEURoeSourcing the photographs, of which there are 100, proved a bit more
problematic though. They came from lots of different people.âEUR

KeithâEUR[TM]s hobby has, by and large, been uneventful, although he revealed
how a trip to Amsterdam a few years back didnâEUR[TM]t exactly go according to
plan.

He said: âEURoeSchipol is a smashing big airport and it was something IâEUR[TM]d
been looking forward to for a while.

âEURoeThat was until I was arrested for âEUR˜spyingâEUR[TM]. I was banged up in
a cell, searched and questioned. It wasnâEUR[TM]t until someone with
half-a-brain came along that I was released.âEUR

Keith added: âEURoeOf course, the terrorist activities have changed everything.
We had a great vantage point at Glasgow Airport where we would stand and take
photographs of planes touching down and taking off.

âEURoeSince the terror attacks thatâEUR[TM]s all been taken away, although I can
fully understand their concerns.

âEURoeAt least we have almost eighty years of history to look back on, and some
fantastic photographs to peruse. The book acts as a great memory tool.âEUR

Glasgow Airport began its life spread between two, primarily military, airfields
at Abbotsinch and Renfrew in 1932.

Eleven years later, Abbotsinch, the larger of the two, became a Royal Naval Air
Station, with Renfrewassuming the role of GlasgowâEUR[TM]s airport after the
war. ItwasnâEUR[TM]t until 1966, when Renfrew was closed, that Abbotsinch was
officially opened as Glasgow Airport.

BAA bought the airport in 1975 and started a plan of expansion that by the late
1980s saw the capacity of the airport cater for six million passengers annually.

Today, Glasgow is the busiest of Scotland''s international airports with over
8.8 million passengers a year and over 40 airlines using its runways.

GlasgowâEURs Airports âEUR" Renfrew and Abbotsinch is published on Monday, at a
cost of Âpounds 17.99.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  OVER: 602 Squadron Hawker Harts over Renfrew in 1935 BOOKED IN: Keith
McCloskey and his tome on Glasgow Airport CHANGED DAYS: A rather subdued Renfrew
Airport CROWDS: The Scottish Flying Club hosts a pageant in 1934 âEUR" the
clubhouse became the airportâEUR[TM]s first terminal FAREWELL: The Royal
NavyâEUR[TM]s Grumman Avenger, one of the last aircraft to be disposed of at
Abbotsinch

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 16, 2009, Sunday

ARSONISTS HIT COURT;
 FIRE ATTACK AT TERROR TRIAL BUILDING

BYLINE: FIONA MAY

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 163 words

HIGHLIGHT: FIRE ATTACK: The court


THE historic Crumlin Road courthouse in Belfast has been badly damaged in an
arson attack.

Firefighters said they fought for seven hours to save the listed building.

Michael Graham of the Fire and Rescue Service said: "We believe the fire was
started deliberately.

"There is a large amount of damage right through the property - the vast
majority of the centre section of the roof is completely burned away.

"Due to the skill of the firefighters we managed to prevent it spreading."

The Crumlin Road was closed for five hours.

The Grade B listed building was the scene of hundreds of terrorist trials.

A tunnel leads from the dock of No 1 court under the road to the Crumlin Road
prison which is also closed and now a tourist attraction. When the court closed
in 1998 it was put into cold storage and sealed off.

Developer Barry Gilligan later bought the building and announced plans to turn
it into a luxury hotel but no work was ever started.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 17, 2009 Monday

Arab scholars condemn Mumbai terror attacks, support India's efforts

LENGTH: 255 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

Mumbai: Islamic scholars and clergymen, mainly from the Arab world, on Sunday
[16 August] endorsed support to India's fight against terrorism, asserting that
people who engage in barbaric acts like terrorism have no place in Islam.

The experts also condemned last year's Mumbai terror attacks during a seminar,
'Unity, Love and Tolerance', organized by Sahyog Cultural Society.

Dr Mohammed Shahumi, an advisor to Col Muammar Gaddafi of Libya, said terrorism
needs to be condemned in all forms.

"We have to tackle terrorism in the strictest manner.. What we have seen in
Mumbai last November is actually a crime against humanity and today's world
order would never tolerate it," he said.

Chairman, Sahyog Cultural Society, Sami Bubere said the Holy Koran deals with
the issue of terrorism by teaching Muslims never to become terrorists in the
first place.

"The Holy Book says that in the sight of Allah, persecution, or making people
constantly fear for their lives, is much worse than killing," he said.

Others who delivered lectures at the seminar included -- Mohammed Refaat
(President, Muhib Ahle Bait Association and General Secretary of Socialist
Wifaaq Party, Egypt), Abdullah Hafizi (General Secretary, Al Adarisa
International Association, Morocco), Mustafa bin Yusuf (Professor Morocco
University), IAS Al Mufti (Vice President, Al Hashmi League, Jordon) and Khadija
Al Sibahi (Women Leader of Al Ashraf's Adarisa).

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 2150gmt 16 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 17, 2009 Monday

Pakistan terror groups planning fresh attacks in India - PM

LENGTH: 121 words


Text of report published by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi: Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Monday [17 August] said that
there is credible information that terrorist groups based in Pakistan are
planning to carry out fresh attacks in India and advocated the need for utmost
vigilance.

"There is credible information of ongoing plans of terrorist groups in Pakistan
to carry out fresh attacks," the Prime Minister said addressing the Conference
of Chief Ministers here.

He said cross-border terrorism remains a "most pervasive" threat.

"After Mumbai attacks, we have put in place additional measures. There is need
for continued utmost vigilance," Singh said.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0632gmt 17 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 18, 2009 Tuesday

Afghan daily urges measures to prevent more terror attacks

LENGTH: 537 words


Text of article by Partamin entitled "Killing of innocent people demonstrates
shocking, inhumane actions of enemy" by state-owned Afghan newspaper Hewad on 17
August

It is the work of wild and extremist people to strap explosives to their bodies
or place them in vehicles to detonate them in crowded areas and shed the blood
of innocent and defenceless people on the instructions of their wild and
hard-hearted masters. Such elements place bombs on roadsides to kill innocent
passers-by, destroy passenger buses and cause other damage. They have inflicted
casualties on many people. The enemies of peace, the country and freedom carried
out a suicide and wild attack in Kabul on 24th of the current month and
inflicted casualties on 100 people. It is clear proof of their shocking and
inhumane actions, which are against Islam, humanity and Afghan principles and
arouse hatred in people.

People strongly condemn such actions. Such shocking and inhumane actions by the
enemies of peace and freedom not only reveal their destructive conspiracies and
ugly faces, but also prove their weaknesses and discredit them. Therefore,
people are forming tribal forces against them and do not want to offer them a
place in their areas where they can carry out their anti-Islamic and inhumane
actions. A major example of this is the uprising of people of Nazian District in
Shinwar of Nangarhar and the formation of a tribal force by them. People in some
other areas, too, have started forming tribal forces against the enemies of
peace, the country and freedom to strike serious blows at the enemies of peace
in coordination with their internal and foreign forces and guard the country's
independence, national sovereignty, territorial integrity and people's lives and
interests against them.

Preventing such merciless and wild suicide and subversive attacks and other
subversive activities and foiling their destructive conspiracies require the
vigilance of all internal and foreign security forces. It also requires strong
cooperation and support of the people. All sides should jointly suppress these
subversive elements and detect their destructive conspiracies before they
execute them. Regarding the nature of this suicide attack, the spokesman for
Interior Ministry, Zmaray Bashari, reacted with surprise to the fact that
terrorists could carry out such a shocking attack in a key area in Kabul, fire
rockets on Kabul city and create an atmosphere of fear. He said: A thorough
investigation is under way into the incident and its factors will soon be
identified.

Anyhow, intelligence and detection offices should be strengthened in Kabul and
all other parts of the country to prevent such attacks and foil their
conspiracies. They should be equipped with modern computerized and detection
equipment. Furthermore, people's hearts and support should be won to detect the
conspiracies of terrorists and their stooges before they execute them. The
culprits must be punished seriously. Otherwise, peace can never be ensured and
people will always be concerned about such suicide attacks, bomb explosions and
other subversive attacks and they will always be deprived of a peaceful and
prosperous life.

Source: Hewad, Kabul, in Pashto 17 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 18, 2009 Tuesday

Algerian "terrorists" attack municipal guard station in Berber area - paper

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 18
August

[Report by H. Azzouzi: "Yakouren: Attack on the Municipal Guard Headquarters"]

The fundamentalist hordes perpetrated an attack yesterday morning in the
[Berber] municipality of Yakouren, in the daira of Azazga, [in Tizi Ouzou
Province, 100 km east of Algiers]

Involved was a homemade bomb which exploded at around 0800 hours close to the
headquarters of the [state-sponsored civilian militia] municipal guard, not far
from downtown. The blast from the explosive device, probably triggered remotely
with the help of a cell phone, wounded one among the elements from the municipal
police. The wounded municipal guard was evacuated to the Azazga hospital.

The criminal device, according to local sources, had been buried in the ground.
After this attack, a huge search operation was kicked off by the security forces
in the Yakouren forest. Let us note that yesterday's attack occurred four days
after the explosion of a bomb near a gendarmerie monitoring centre at Tassalaste
beach.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 0000 gmt 18 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           August 19, 2009 Wednesday

Iraqi TV reports "consecutive terrorist attacks" in Baghdad; update 19 August

LENGTH: 463 words


Iraqi government-controlled Al-Iraqiyah TV reports within its 0900 gmt newscast
on 19 August on the consecutive blasts that rocked various areas in Baghdad,
statements made by the Iraqi premier following the conclusion of his visit to
Syria, statements by the director of the Interior Ministry's National Command
Centre in which he denied a final decision has been made regarding General
Odierno's proposal on deploying joint forces in the disputed areas; and
statements by an Al-Sadr Bloc MP terming General Odierno's proposal as "illegal
and unconstitutional."

- "Consecutive terrorist attacks have taken place in various areas in Baghdad,
causing the martyrdom or wounding of a number of people. A police source said
that a booby trapped car exploded near the Al-Salihiyah Residential Compound in
central Baghdad. Several blasts occurred in the Al-Bayya, Al-Karradah, and Hafiz
al-Qadi. Other explosions took place near the Finance, Health, and Foreign
Ministries."

- "Concluding his visit to Damascus, Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki reiterated
Iraq's eagerness to strengthen the foundations and pillars of the Iraqi-Syrian
relations in a way that will preserve the security and stability of the two
countries. In a news conference, Al-Maliki praised the establishment of joint
strategic centre between Baghdad and Damascus."

- "For his part, Syrian Prime Minister Muhammad Naji Itri stressed Syria's
concern to assist the Iraqi Government in eradicating terrorist groups that
target all segments of the Iraqi people."

- "Major General Abd-al-Karim Khalaf, director of the Interior Ministry's
National Command Centre, has denied that final decision has been made regarding
the proposal presented by Multinational Force Commander General Raymond Odierno
to form joint security groups from Iraqi, Kurdish, and US forces to protect the
disputed areas. Khalaf pointed out that the Iraqi security commanders are still
studying the proposal. He pointed out that the outcome and recommendations of
the commanders' meetings will be presented to the commander in chief of the
Armed Forces, who will make the final decision regarding Odierno's proposal."

- "Fawzi Akram, Turkoman MP for the Al-Sadr Bloc, has termed the proposal of
General Raymond Odierno on deploying joint forces in the disputed areas as
illegal and unconstitutional. Akram pointed out that Odierno has exceeded his
authority and is trying to circumvent the withdrawal agreement. For his part,
Fu'ad Husayn, director of the Kurdistan Region's Presidential Office, said that
the federal and Kurdish security ministries agreed with the Multinational Force
Command to form joint committees to handle the situation in the governorates of
Ninawa, Kirkuk, and Diyala."

Source: Al-Iraqiyah TV, Baghdad, in Arabic 0900 gmt 19 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           August 19, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Taliban steps up election terror campaign;
Suicide attack on Nato convoy kills 10 as violence sweeps Afghanistan before
poll

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta IN HELMAND

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 705 words


A Taliban suicide bomb attack on a Nato convoy killed at least 10 people,
including one international soldier and two UN staff yesterday. Mortar rounds
landed inside the grounds of the presidential palace as Islamists unleashed a
wave of violence highlighting the volatile Afghan security situation on the eve
of national elections.

The suicide truck attack on one of the main roads from Kabul leading east to
Jalalabad, near a British military base, also injured 52 people, at least a
dozen of them seriously. A Nato spokesman said a number of its soldiers "were
killed and injured in the blast". Further details would be released after next
of kin had been informed, he said.

Two Afghan civilians working for the UN were also among the dead and another was
wounded. The UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon said he was "deeply distressed" by
the news. The Taliban claimed responsibility for the bombing and declared that
further attacks would soon follow.

The attack set a row of vehicles on fire and damaged nearby buildings. British
troops, guarding the site of the attack, had to collect remains of victims from
the roofs of nearby buildings. Local people searched through the rubble for
survivors who were ferried to hospitals in private cars.

There were no injuries in the mortar attack aimed at the residence of the
President Hamid Karzai. Hamid Elmi, a presidential spokesman, said the rounds
had struck "around the compound" but had no further details.

A US military spokeswoman, Elizabeth Mathias, had no details of damage or
casualties from the attack on the presidential compound. Neither Mr Karzai nor
anyone else was wounded in the attack, said Mr Elmi. He said the rounds probably
hit "somewhere around the compound", but he had no further details.

In separate attacks, two American soldiers were killed and three others were
wounded by a roadside bomb in eastern Afghanistan. The deaths brought to 26 the
number of US service members killed in the conflict in the past 30 days.
Meanwhile, a suicide attack killed three Afghan soldiers and two civilians in
Uruzgan in the south of the country. In Jowzjan province in the north, an
election candidate was shot dead and three poll workers killed in Badakshan when
the car they were travelling in hit a roadside bomb.

Mr Karzai is still favourite to win the country's second presidential election
since the 2001 US-led invasion although he is facing a stiff challenge from
other leading candidates.

He said Afghans would not be deterred by these "barbaric acts". He has vowed to
restore peace and security but his government is clearly so rattled by the
bloodshed that it has ordered a news blackout on media reporting of attacks
while voting is underway tomorrow. Separate decrees from the interior ministry
and the foreign ministry warned national and international news media to stay
away from the scenes of attacks and to refrain from airing broadcasts about
violence because they risked frightening people into staying away from the
polls.

"We have taken this decision in the national interest of Afghanistan in order to
encourage people and raise their morale to come out and vote," said a spokesman,
Siamak Herawi.

Insurgents have vowed to disrupt the election and there were continuing reports
of Taliban warnings to voters to stay at home tomorrow. Western governments
believe a strong turnout is essential to give the outcome legitimacy but the
Islamist movement has threatened to blow up polling stations to sabotage what it
calls "a foreign plot against the country".

Despite the absence of any let-up in insurgent activity, Nato officially
announced yesterday that its forces would stop military operations on election
day and would undertake missions only if they were "deemed necessary to protect
the population". However, operations were still continuing in Helmand and
Kandahar yesterday by British and American troops to "disrupt Taliban attempts
to disrupt the elections".

Meanwhile, the militant network run by the Taliban in neighbouring Pakistan was
dealt a blow with the arrest of a spokesman, Mualvi Omar. Omar reportedly told
interrogators that the movement's chief, Baitullah Mehsud, was killed on 5
August. Reports of Mehsud's death had previously been denied.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

Co-ordinated terrorist attacks strike Baghdad

BYLINE: SAM MARSDEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 487 words


Up to 100 people were feared dead last night after a wave of co-ordinated
explosions across Baghdad.

A massive truck bomb outside Iraq's Foreign Ministry near the secure Green Zone,
knocked out concrete slabs and windows and left a mass of charred cars outside.

It was the deadliest attack in Iraq so far this year and marked a major
challenge to the control of Baghdad.

A steady escalation of violence following the June 30 withdrawal of American
troops from urban areas has heightened fears that government troops are not
ready to provide security.

Iraqi officials blamed al Qaida and other Sunni insurgents, echoing military
warnings that the militant group is trying to provoke new bloodshed to undermine
public trust in the Shiiteled Iraqi government.

"The terrorists are trying to rekindle the cycle of violence of previous years
by creating an atmosphere of tension among the Iraqi people," Iraqi President
Jalal Talabani said in a statement. "Our security forces must be more alert and
firm. Also, the political groups must unite."

Sunni and Shiite extremists remain active in Iraq, but truck bombs and suicide
attacks bear the hallmarks of al Qaida.

The devastating strike outside the Foreign Ministry killed at least 60 people
and wounded 250, but the final toll is expected to be much higher.

The truck was parked in a largely unguarded car park across the street but the
force of the blast tore through the ten-storey building, which itself is
surrounded by a concrete blast wall, as well as nearby apartment blocks.

A recent rise in bombings has dealt a blow to Iraqi government efforts to
restore a sense of normalcy in the capital.

Iraqi security forces have begun removing concrete blast walls, which have been
credited with helping reducing violence. The walls have been coming down in
residential and commercial areas with the aim of improving appearance and easing
traffic congestion.

The Finance Ministry was the first of the midmorning attacks. Minutes later
mortars struck inside the Green Zone. It was not known what damage the mortars
caused or whether there were causalities.

Another car bomb targeted a joint Iraqi police and army patrol just outside the
Finance Ministry, killing at least 19 people and wounding 22.

Another blast in the commercial area of western Baghdad's Baiyaa district killed
two people and wound-e16, while a bombing in the commercial district of Bab
al-Muadham killed six people and wounded 24, authorities said.

General Ray Odierno, the top US commander in Iraq, said this week that he wanted
to deploy soldiers alongside Iraqi and Kurdish troops in northern Iraq where
some of the worst attacks in recent weeks have been carried out.

US troops withdrew from Iraq's cities on June 30 under a security pact that
outlines the American withdrawal by the end of 2011.

President Barack Obama has ordered all US combat troops out of Iraq by August
31, next year.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Smoke billows near the Iraqi Foreign Ministry, left, after a massive
bomb attack in Baghdad

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday

NATO: Statement by the NATO Secretary General, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, on the
terrorist attacks in Baghdad

LENGTH: 134 words


General, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, on the terrorist attacks in Baghdad

On behalf of NATO, I condemn in the strongest possible terms the
terrorist attacks in Baghdadtoday. I would like to express NATO's
sincere condolences to the Iraqi government, the Iraqi people and to
the families and loved ones of the victims of these bloody attacks.
This tragic loss of life and suffering underscore, yet again, the grave
danger the terrorist threat poses to all of us.

There can be no justification for such cowardly and pointless attacks.
NATO will continue to work with Iraqin training the Iraqi security
forces and to cooperate in the fight against the scourge of terrorism.

((M2 Communications disclaims all liability for information provided
within
information on
on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2009 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Tamworth Herald

                                August 20, 2009

Mum tells how park stroll ended in dog-attack terror

BYLINE: Paul Kemp

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 397 words


A Tamworth woman is calling for dog owners to be made to put their pets on leads
after her dog was 'savagely attacked' by three Staffordshire Bull Terriers last
week.

Carol Chadwick, aged 61, of Tamworth Road, was walking in Amington with her
daughters and two dogs last Tuesday when they found themselves being attacked on
the village green.

"My dog was ripped in seven places," a distressed Carol told the Herald this
week. "She was savagely attacked by the three dogs who had been let off their
leads."

Carol, who is disabled and lives in Amington, said she wanted to start a
campaign for all dog owners to use leads.

She had been walking along a nearby canal towpath when she and her daughters saw
the three dogs in the distance, shortly before the attack last Tuesday.

"We were out walking on the canal towpath with our dogs, a greyhound and a
daschund," Carol said.

"We could see three big dogs off their leads coming towards us.

"We were very wary of them so we turned back towards Amington green and got off
the towpath.

"But the dogs followed us and then attacked."

While Carol tried to defend the daschund from the dogs, her daughter came
forward to help and the animals then began attacking their greyhound.

"We were surrounded by the dogs," Carol continued. "We tried to fight them off
but couldn't. It was a big shock - it's quite a trauma."

The  dogs continued their attack even as  residents dashed to help.

Carol said the dogs were being walked by two teenage girls, who were also unable
to stop the attack.

But after hitting the animals and the 'sheer noise' from the crowd the dogs were
finally brought under control.

"We did not realise how much the greyhound had been hurt," Carol continued.
"It's going to be a slow recovery for her.

"Our dog needed veterinary treatment which cost £185. But it could have been
much worse.

"If they had got hold of the daschund it would be dead."

She added: "Those girls should never have been put in charge of those dogs, and
they should never have been off their leads.

"But the dogs owner was mortified about the attack and has offered to pay the
vet's bill when she can."

The six-year-old greyhound, named Iris, is now recovering at home but the attack
has left her shaken, Carol said.

"I just want to emphasise that dogs should be on leads," she added.

Carol said she also wanted to thank local residents who ran to help as the
attack took place.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 52


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Tamworth Herald

                                August 20, 2009

Mum tells how park stroll ended in dog-attack terror

BYLINE: Paul Kemp

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 397 words


A Tamworth woman is calling for dog owners to be made to put their pets on leads
after her dog was 'savagely attacked' by three Staffordshire Bull Terriers last
week.

Carol Chadwick, aged 61, of Tamworth Road, was walking in Amington with her
daughters and two dogs last Tuesday when they found themselves being attacked on
the village green.

"My dog was ripped in seven places," a distressed Carol told the Herald this
week. "She was savagely attacked by the three dogs who had been let off their
leads."

Carol, who is disabled and lives in Amington, said she wanted to start a
campaign for all dog owners to use leads.

She had been walking along a nearby canal towpath when she and her daughters saw
the three dogs in the distance, shortly before the attack last Tuesday.

"We were out walking on the canal towpath with our dogs, a greyhound and a
daschund," Carol said.

"We could see three big dogs off their leads coming towards us.

"We were very wary of them so we turned back towards Amington green and got off
the towpath.

"But the dogs followed us and then attacked."

While Carol tried to defend the daschund from the dogs, her daughter came
forward to help and the animals then began attacking their greyhound.

"We were surrounded by the dogs," Carol continued. "We tried to fight them off
but couldn't. It was a big shock - it's quite a trauma."

The  dogs continued their attack even as  residents dashed to help.

Carol said the dogs were being walked by two teenage girls, who were also unable
to stop the attack.

But after hitting the animals and the 'sheer noise' from the crowd the dogs were
finally brought under control.

"We did not realise how much the greyhound had been hurt," Carol continued.
"It's going to be a slow recovery for her.

"Our dog needed veterinary treatment which cost £185. But it could have been
much worse.

"If they had got hold of the daschund it would be dead."

She added: "Those girls should never have been put in charge of those dogs, and
they should never have been off their leads.

"But the dogs owner was mortified about the attack and has offered to pay the
vet's bill when she can."

The six-year-old greyhound, named Iris, is now recovering at home but the attack
has left her shaken, Carol said.

"I just want to emphasise that dogs should be on leads," she added.

Carol said she also wanted to thank local residents who ran to help as the
attack took place.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 52


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 21, 2009 Friday

Pakistan court sends Mumbai terror attack suspect to judicial custody

LENGTH: 248 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Islamabad, 20 August: A Pakistani anti-terrorism court Thursday [20 August]
remanded Jamil Ahmed, a Lashkar-i-Toiba-linked suspect arrested for allegedly
facilitating the Mumbai attacks, to judicial custody till 3 September.

Ahmed, who was arrested by the Special Investigation Unit of the Federal
Investigation Agency [FIA] on 5 August, was produced in the anti-terrorism court
of Judge Akram Awan in Rawalpindi.

The judge remanded Ahmed to judicial custody for two weeks. Ahmed is the sixth
suspect to be arrested so far by the FIA for alleged involvement in facilitating
and executing the Mumbai attacks that killed nearly 180 people. Ahmed, a
resident of Battagram in the North West Frontier Province, has been described by
the FIA as an "important suspect allegedly linked" to the LT. He was nabbed
following the interrogation of five LT operatives - operations commander Zakiur
Rehman Lakhvi, Abu Al-Qama, Zarar Shah, Shahid Jamil Riaz and Hamad Amin Sadiq -
arrested earlier by the FIA.

These five men are being tried by another anti-terrorism court in Rawalpindi for
alleged involvement in the attacks. The next hearing of their case is scheduled
for 29 August. Pakistani authorities are also looking for 13 other suspects who
facilitated the Mumbai attacks. Most of these men are crew members of the two
boats used by the 10 terrorists who attacked the Indian financial hub.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1734gmt 20 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 21, 2009 Friday

Terrorist attacks in North Caucasus "aimed at provoking chaos" - Russian pundit

LENGTH: 339 words


Excerpt from report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 21 August: The series of terrorist acts in Groznyy is interrelated with
the terrorist acts in other North Caucasus republics and is aimed at
destabilizing the situation in the region, deputy director of the Centre for
Political Technologies Aleksey Makarkin believes.

"The explosions in the Chechen capital are undoubtedly interrelated with the
terrorist attacks which occurred recently in Ingushetia and earlier in Dagestan.
All of these acts are coordinated and aimed at provoking chaos in the North
Caucasus," Makarkin told Interfax today.

Terrorists have given up numerous mass armed actions and the taking of hostages
and have moved on to new tactics, he notes.

"If terrorists previously acted in big groups, seized strategic facilities and
hostages, then now they have given up this tactic, changing to direct strikes
using suicide bombers on the law-enforcement agencies. At the same time, until
the moment of committing the terrorist acts, these people behave like ordinary
citizens," Makarkin said.

In his opinion, the organizers of terror acts chose the law-enforcement agencies
with the aim of provoking retaliatory harsh actions which could provoke public
unrest in the region.

"Actions against representatives of the law-enforcement agencies and their most
combat-ready section are aimed at provoking a harsh response in the form of
intensified measures of control and mass checks. The calculation done here is
that the public in the region will be outraged by such actions," Makarkin
believes.

Organizers of terrorist acts prefer to attract young people, advocating the
renunciation of traditional Islam prevailing in the North Caucasus, he said.
[Passage omitted]

At the same time, in his opinion, the Islamic universities opening in the North
Caucasus could become an important ally of the law-enforcement agencies and the
public in the fight against terrorism in the near future.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1244 gmt 21 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 21, 2009 Friday

India concealing home-grown terrorists' role in Mumbai attack -

LENGTH: 973 words


Text of article by Waqar Ahmed headlined "Indian non-cooperation in Mumbai
attacks" published by Pakistani newspaper Pakistan Observer website on 20 Aug

Despite Pakistan 's repeated demands, India has failed to supply solid
information in relation to the culprits of Mumbai mayhem which occurred on 26
November last year. Instead of providing any evidence, New Delhi has only been
propagating that the gunmen who conducted terrorist events in Mumbai came from
Pakistan. Surprisingly, on 21 July, Indian Foreign Secretary Shiv Shankar Menon
ruled out talking to Pakistan on any issue other than terrorism.

Shankar further explained, "Our only issue with Pakistan is terrorism. We demand
the perpetrators of terror be brought to justice" and Pakistan should "end
infrastructure of terrorism on its soil." It reminds the statement of PM Singh
who had remarked on 6 January this year that Pakistan was using terrorism as
state policy. Indian fruitless strategy could be judged from the contradictory
statements of some other important Indian personalities. For instance on 8
February, Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi revealed that the Mumbai terror
attacks could not have been carried out without internal help from India. On 12
February, the Mumbai police Chief Hassan Ghafoor also admitted that two Indians
who were arrested by the Indian police had been involved in the Mumbai carnage.
Confused statements by the Indian high officials show that New Delhi has been
making deliberate efforts to entangle Pakistan in the Mumbai tragedy through
fabricated stories and India is not serious in! Mumbai probe. The aim is to
conceal the involvement of Indian terrorists and the role of its secret agency
RAW which is behind Mumbai drama. During attacks in Mumbai, the death of
Anti-Terrorism Squad Chief Hemant Karkare left sufficient proof that Indian
intelligence agencies had themselves planned the scheme. Narayan Rane, an
Indian-Hindu leader of the Congress, disclosed on 16 December 2008 that Hindu
politicians provided logistical and financial support to Hindutva terrorists for
killing Karkare. While, Indian Minority Affairs Minister Abdul Rahman Antulay
who had changed his statement after pressure from Congress had clearly revealed
in the Lok Sabha that the killing of Anti-Terrorism Squad Chief Karkare in
Mumbai was a conspiracy, saying that Karkare was assassinated owing to his
leading role in the investigation against Hindus regarding the 2006 Malegaon
bombings which killed eight people outside a mosque. He further elaborated,
"Anyone trying to go to the roots of terror has always been a target", calling
for a separate inquiry into Karkare's death. In wake of a continued debate and
rising tension between the two South Asian nuclear states in connection with the
culprits of Mumbai tragedy, Pakistan has proved itself as a responsible state
actor. On 12 February 2009, Islamabad not only submitted its report to India
after lodging FIR against the nine suspects and taking six accused persons into
custody, but also repeatedly offered joint investigation to get hold of the real
culprits. The fact of the matter remains that Indians were well-aware that any
joint inquiry would have exposed the identity of Hindu terrorists and Indian
militants. It would have also exposed the killing of Anti-Terrorism Squad Chief
Karkare during Mumbai events and the arrested Lt-Col. Srikant Purohit who was
found involved in supplying high-grade explosives to the Hindu
fundamentalists-played a key role in setting the Samjhota express on fire.
Setting aside Islamabad's offer for joint investigation, New Delhi has also
failed in providing reply to the questions asked by Pakistan in relation to the
death of Karkare, progress regarding investigation of Purohit--and particularly
about the first statement of the lonely-arrested gunman, Ajmal Kasab regarding
the Mumbai events.

Notably, in the recent past, Ajmal Kasab had disclosed in an Indian court that
the police had forced him to give statement against Pakistan and ISI. He has
also been forced to change his previous statement. On 20 July, he confessed in
the special court that he is Pakistani, and that five men who were involved in
the Mumbai carnage also includes key operatives of the banned Lashkar-i-Toiba
(LeT). Backing out of his initial statement clearly proves that Indian
intelligence agencies, especially RAW has kept him under continuous torture and
thus forced him to show the involvement of Pakistan and ISI. The main aim behind
is to conceal the real culprits who are Indian terrorists trained by RAW. In its
latest dossier, sent to Islamabad , New Delhi has declared Hafiz Saeed as
mastermind behind the incident, while earlier; Kasab was announced as the
mastermind. Nevertheless it is another major contradiction in the matter.

As a matter of fact New Delhi wanted to achieve a number of goals through
self-arranged Mumbai tragedy as its aftermath proved. First of all India
suspended the Indo-Pak composite dialogue in order to use the incident to avoid
the solution of Kashmir. Second, it tried its best to get Pakistan declared a
terrorist state with the help of US-led western countries. Third, it intended to
isolate Pakistan diplomatically in the comity of nations. Fourth, India wanted
to distort the image of Islamabad through a propaganda campaign that Pakistan is
officially sponsoring terrorism in India and Afghanistan. After its failure in
isolating Pakistan diplomatically, at present its leaders have been acting upon
a hollow strategy which is based upon opposition for the sake of opposition. The
aim of this irresponsible approach is to conceal the real evidence which
indicates Indian home-grown terrorists along with the hand of RAW in connection
with the Mumbai mayhem.

Source: Pakistan Observer website, Islamabad, in English 20 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            August 21, 2009, Friday

BRAVERY MEDAL FOR TERRORIST ATTACK PC;
AIRPORT HERO'S TOP AWARD

BYLINE: Paul O'Hare

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 206 words


AN off-duty cop hailed as a hero of the Glasgow airport terror attack is to
receive one of the UK's highest bravery awards.

PC Stewart Ferguson, 42, was pictured dousing blazing Kafeel Ahmed with a fire
extinguisher as the terrorist tried to ignite gas cylinders at terminal one.

The Royal Humane Society yesterday confirmed Stewart had been honoured with
their prestigious Bronze Medal.

RHS secretary Dick Wilkinson said: "He showed the highest levels of heroism.

"When he arrived at the scene, the vehicle was on fire and the driver, who was
also on fire, was attempting to access the rear of the vehicle.

Discharged "This brave officer cleared the area of the public and ran to get a
fire extinguisher.

"Despite several explosions in the vehicle, he discharged the extinguisher at
the man and doused the flames.

"He then assisted in containing the two terrorists.

"His actions saved the terrorist and untold lives."

Stewart, of Erskine, Renfrewshire, received the Strathclyde Chief Constable's
Very High Commendation last January .

Bilal Abdulla was jailed for 32 years last December for his part in the car bomb
attack and another in London's West End in June 2007.

Accomplice Kafeel Ahmed, died from burns four weeks after the airport attack.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SELFLESS: Stewart douses extremist, above

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                             August 21, 2009 Friday
                                 2 Star Edition

BRITAIN'S WORST TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 261 words


DEC 21 1988: Pan Am Flight 103 from Heathrow to New York explodes at 31,000ft
over Lockerbie, killing all 259 on board and 11 in the town.

NOV 14 1991: Libyans Megrahi and Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah are accused of the
bombing using explosives in a stereo, left.Libya denies involvement. MAY 3 2000:
Lockerbie trial opens in the Netherlands under Scottish law.

JAN 31 2001: Megrahi is found guilty of mass murder and jailed for life. Fhimah
is found not guilty, freed and greeted by Col Gaddafi in Libya, right. SEPT
2001: The Mirror reveals evidence of a potential bomb threat at Heathrow hours
before Flight 103 was ripped apart was ignored by Lockerbie trial. A heavy duty
padlock on Pan Am's baggage area at Heathrow's Terminal Three had been broken
hours before the doomed flight took off.

MAR 14 2002: Judges dismiss Megrahi's first appeal and send him to Barlinnie
Prison in Glasgow. AUG 19 2003: Britain lifts sanctions against Libya after
Tripoli accepts blame for the bombing and agrees to compensate victims'
families. JUNE 28 2007: Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission says Megrahi
may have been the victim of miscarriage of justice and sends the case back to
the appeal court. OCT 21 2008: Megrahi is diagnosed with prostate cancer which
has spread to other parts of his body.

APRIL 29 2009: A prisoner transfer agreement between the UK and Libya comes into
force.

AUG 12 2009: Scottish ministers deny reports the decision has been made to
release Megrahi.

AUG 20 2009: Scottish justice minister Kenny MacAskill, right, frees Megrahi on
compassionate grounds.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                             August 21, 2009 Friday

Hero workmen rescue child savaged in terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 437 words


Nino williams

Swansea Valley reporter

nino.williams@swwmedia.co.uk

A GROUP of workmen have been hailed heroes after saving a little girl from the
jaws of a vicious dog.

They rushed to the rescue after a four-year-old was set upon by a Doberman on a
street in Clydach.

The dog, believed to have been owned by a neighbour, was pulled off the
terrified child by the unknown rescuers after it had pinned her to the floor.

She was rushed to Morriston Hospital with serious injuries, and it is believed
she needed treatment to her face, chest, and arm.

A neighbour who saw the incident said: "The dog was totally on top of her,
covering her face.  There was no way she could get away.  I  heard she had to
have two operations."

Another neighbour, who also asked not to be named, praised the quick response of
the workmen, saying: "There were some men working nearby, and they had to pull
the dog off her.

"There have been all sorts of rumours that the she had lost her arm."

The attack took place outside the girl's home in Danygraig, on August 13.

The young girl is from a family said to be Russian or Lithuanian.  The family
declined to speak to the  Post, but neighbours said they had lived at the
property for around 18 months, and that the girl has three sisters.

Police said the girl was   four years old, but neighbours suggested she was as
old as six or seven.  Emergency services were called to the scene, and the
animal has been impounded by Swansea Council while police launch an
investigation.

Inspector Nigel Whitehouse, of South Wales Police, said: "I can confirm that
police were called to an incident that occurred at Danygraig, Clydach at about
1.20pm on Thursday, August 13, where a four-year-old girl was attacked by a
Doberman.

"The child sustained serious injuries, which were not life-threatening, and was
treated at Morriston Hospital. She  is making a good recovery.

"The dog has been impounded by the local authority, and officers are  making
inquires into the matter."

A spokesman for Swansea Council said anyone who wanted to keep a pet in local
authority housing needed permission, and that officials were checking whether
the rules had been followed.

He said: "Permission will not be refused if the request is considered to be
reasonable, but can be denied in certain circumstances, for example if  the pet
is not suitable for the type of property. We are still looking into whether
permission was sought for a pet to be kept at the property in this case."

He added: "We are looking after the dog at the request of the police, pending
further investigations by them."

Do you know the workmen? Call us on   01792 514606.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2009 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 22, 2009 Saturday

India hands over material on Mumbai terror attack to Pakistan

LENGTH: 88 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 21 Aug: Indian Foreign Secretary during a meeting on Friday handed
over some material pertaining to terrorist attack in Mumbai to Pakistan's High
Commissioner in New Delhi. Arrangements are being made for the receipt of the
material here, said a Foreign Office Spokesman.

Once received, the material will be forwarded to the Interior Ministry for
examination.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1400gmt
21 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 22, 2009 Saturday

Sri Lanka condemns terrorist attacks in Iraq

LENGTH: 205 words


Text of report by Sri Lankan Ministry of Defence, Public Security, Law and Order
website on 21 August

Foreign Minister Rohitha Bogollagama has strongly condemned the coordinated bomb
attacks in Baghdad on 19 August 2009, which killed more than a hundred and
caused injuries to several hundred innocent civilians. The foreign minister
called the attacks as "dastardly acts", perpetrated to cause mayhem and agony to
the people of Iraq who were well on their way to restoring peace and stability
and rebuilding Iraq after years of conflict and mistrust.

As a country which had experienced the menace of terrorism for over 25 years
until the successful defeat of the world's deadliest terrorist group, Sri Lanka
sympathizes with the government and the people of Iraq for the trauma and
devastation caused to innocent civilians by the terrorists in Baghdad and
elsewhere in that country.

President Mahinda Rajapakse has conveyed to President Jalal Talabani of Iraq his
vehement condemnation at these despicable, cowardly attacks in Baghdad,
expressing Sri Lanka's solidarity with the government and the people of Iraq at
this difficult time.

Source: Sri Lanka Ministry of Defence, Public Security, Law and Order website in
English 21 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            August 22, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

The 'ear' that hears from 40km away;
Fibre optic cable converted into sensitive microphone could protect against
terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Jonathan Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 567 words


SCIENTISTS HAVE perfected a new technology that can transform a fibre optic
cable into a highly sensitive microphone capable of detecting a single footstep
from up to 40km away.

Guards at listening posts protecting remote sensitive sites from attackers such
as terrorists or saboteurs can eavesdrop across huge tracts of territory using
the new system which has been created to beef up security around national
borders, railway networks, airports and vital oil and gas pipelines.

Devised by QinetiQ, the privatised Defence Evaluation and Research Agency
(Dera), the technology piggybacks on the existing fibre optic communication
cable network, millions of miles of which have been laid across the world in
recent years.

Trials have already been staged in Europe to use the OptaSense system, which
evolved out of military sonar and submarine technology, on railways to prevent
vandals or thieves trespassing on high-speed lines as well as to counter
terrorism. It has been deployed by several blue chip oil companies to protect
energy pipelines which run through some of the most lawless and remote regions
of the world.

Oil and gas companies lose millions of pounds each year through "hot tapping" in
which thieves siphon off oil to sell. The process can be dangerous, resulting in
explosions which have claimed hundreds of lives as well as causing serious
environmental damage. Its creators say the system can also safeguard against
accidental damage caused by builders and farmers working close to pipelines in
Europe and North America. But it is hoped the technology will be rolled out to
enhance security arrangements at prestige sites, among them Heathrow's Terminal
5 or the Olympic Games and to protect major gatherings of world leaders such as
during the G8, which has become an increasing magnet for protest movements.

The system works by picking up tiny seismic waves detected under the ground by
the fibre optic cable which carries an optical pulse sent from a central
computer. Virtual "microphones" created remotely every 10 miles along the cable
register the vibrations through the ground. The patterns caused by the
disturbances are then matched to digitally pre-sampled sounds such as footsteps,
cars or diggers and the information fed back to a command centre where security
personnel are able to deploy drones or even armed response teams to check out
the threat.

The system is sensitive enough to detect sounds 40km away, along the line of the
cable. It can also pick up sounds perpendicular to the cable: the sound of
someone approaching on foot 30 metres away or a vehicle 50 metres away.

At present, the microphones are not able to pick up the sound of human speech.
Magnus McEwen-King, managing director of OptaSense, said: "We take a standard
telecoms cable and, without changing its structure, install our technology to
create thousands of virtual microphones along the length of the cable.

"What you get is an intelligent hearing device, buried underground, which can
monitor borders, perimeters or property for intruders. Optasense not only
detects but identifies an approaching threat and alerts you to the location so
that you can take necessary action to prevent intentional or accidental damage.

"People are amazed when they see that it can be configured to tell different
types of vehicles apart... or tell if a person is walking or running towards the
area you are monitoring."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        The Observer (London)  (England)

                                August 23, 2009

THAILAND Terror attacks kill four

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: OBSERVER FOREIGN PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 100 words


Three civil servants were killed in a roadside bomb attack and a Muslim employee
of the rubber industry shot dead by suspected insurgents in Thailandyesterday,
police said.

The attacks took place in Yala and Narathiwat, two mainly Muslim provinces near
the Malaysian border where close to 3,500 people have died violently since 2004.

It took the number of people killed in the last five days to 10 in the south,
where Muslim separatists regularly target government officials and the rubber
industry. The region was once a Malay Muslim sultanate until annexed by Buddhist
Thailand a century ago.

Reuters


LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Business Monitor Online

                             August 24, 2009 Monday

Police Arrest Seven For Planning Terror Attacks

LENGTH: 113 words


News: According to  Reuters, Pakistani police have arrested seven men belonging
to the Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) group, who were planning to attack important
government buildings and senior government officials in Karachi. The police have
recovered three suicide jackets, four AK-47 rifles, four pistols and 15kg of
explosives from the group, which is linked to al-Qaeda.

BMI View: The tension highlights the ongoing political and security risk in
Pakistan. The state has a rating of 46.7 in  BMI's Security Rating - a
sub-component of our Short-Term Political Rating - which indicates  BMI's belief
of a structurally unstable government, with crises likely to threaten its
survival.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Political Risk Alert

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter

JOURNAL-CODE: OEMO


               Copyright 2009 Business Monitor International Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                            August 24, 2009, Monday

MUM-TO-BE'S CARJACK BLADE ATTACK TERROR;
SHELLSUIT ROBBER BURSTS INTO MOTOR IN NIGHT ORDEAL

BYLINE: Charlie Gall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 299 words


POLICE are hunting a callous carjacker who put a pregnant woman through a
late-night knifepoint ordeal.

The terrified mum-to-be was alone in her parked motor near a bank just after
midnight when the attacker burst in.

Police said he threatened the woman - who is six months' pregnant - grabbed her
handbag and forced to get out of her black Subaru Impreza.

The thug then roared off before abandoning the sporty motor a quarter of a mile
away.

The frightening attack happened near Dundee city centre on Saturday.

Police have launched a manhunt and said they were following "a definite line of
inquiry".

Detectives said the redhaired robber was slim, small, between 16 and 20, and
clad in a light-coloured shellsuit.

It is hoped the car will also give up vital forensic evidence which will help
nail the youth responsible.

A spokesman for police said yesterday: "The woman is about six months' pregnant
and was badly shaken by the incident.

"She had been parked near a bank. Her handbag was in the car."

It is understood the 31year-old woman, who lives in Dundee, did not need to go
to hospital, despite her ordeal.

The spokesman added: "We are currently carrying out inquiries to establish the
identity of this male along with door-to-door inquiries.

"We are appealing for witnesses who may have seen the incident, the vehicle
being abandoned or have any information concerning the identity of the suspect."

Worrying Dundee City councillor Elizabeth Fordyce said yesterday: "This is
shocking and really worrying.

"I have never heard of anything like this happening before.

"We have had problems with people arrested in that area dealing drugs.

"I hope this will serve as a warning to people to be careful.

"And I hope that the police track down whoever is responsible for this terrible
assault on a pregnant woman."

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STOLEN: Subaru Impreza was driven off by thug

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 25, 2009 Tuesday

Four policemen killed in terrorist attack in Chechnya

LENGTH: 198 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

Moscow, 25 August: Four policemen have been killed and one wounded in an
explosion carried out by a suicide bomber in Shalinskiy District of Chechnya, a
source in the Russian Interior Ministry press centre told Interfax on Tuesday
[25 August].

"Initial reports indicate that four officers of the external security service
directorate have been killed and one wounded," the source said.

He said that "external security service officers of Argunskiy interior
department arrived at a local car service station, then an unidentified man came
up to them and activated an explosive device".

A group of investigators and the head of the ministry criminal police for
Chechnya left for the scene. Information about the suicide bomber is being
clarified.

[In a later report Interfax said quoting Russian interior minister for Chechnya,
Ruslan Alkhanov, that three policemen have been killed and one wounded. The
suicide bomber was Magomed Shakhidov, born in 1984 in Argun, the report quoted
Alkhanov as saying.]

Sources: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0846 gmt 25 Aug 09, Interfax
news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0911 gmt 25 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 25, 2009 Tuesday

Algerian gendarme killed in "terrorist" attack - paper

LENGTH: 131 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El Watan website on 25
August

[Report by A. L.: "Ain Defla: Terrorist Attack"]

One gendarme was killed and his brigade chief seriously wounded yesterday [24
August] morning in the explosion of a bomb in the municipality of Tarek Ibn Ziad
(southeast of the wilaya of Ain Defla's main town), in the spot known as Ain
Tanout six kilometres from the municipality's main town, it has been learned
from matching sources. The device that had been hidden underneath a corpse,
which was discovered recently, exploded as a gendarme and his brigade chief
approached the body. The latter was still in a coma as of press time whereas the
gendarme was killed instantly, our sources further added.

Source: El Watan website, Algiers, in French 25 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           August 26, 2009 Wednesday
                                  2ND Edition

CROWBAR GANG'S CARJACK TERROR;
Businessman robbed, another motorist attacked

BYLINE: BEN ROSSINGTON

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 366 words


A CARJACKING gang robbed a Merseyside businessman before attacking a motorist
they crashed into as they looked for another victim.

The first victim, a 44-year-old man from Maghull, arrived at work at his office
in St John's Road, Bootle, at around 7.40am on Monday.

As he got out of his black Mazda in the car park, two men got out of a light
blue or silver-coloured Seat Leon parked nearby.

The pair approached him and demanded he hand over his car keys. When he refused,
one of them pulled out a crowbar and threatened him.

They then took the keys and sped off, one driving the Mazda and the other in the
Leon, towards Miller's Bridge.

The victim was left shaken but unhurt.

A short time later, at just after 8am, a terrified motorist called police to say
he had just been the victim of an apparent road rage attack.

The 51-year-old man, from Formby, was waiting at traffic lights at the junction
of Rimrose Road and Knowsley Road, which runs alongside Bootle docks, when a car
crashed into him from behind.

A Merseyside police spokeswoman said: "A car matching the description of the one
used in the robbery in St John's Road, a blue or silver Seat Leon, was then
involved in a road traffic collision.

"The victim reported to us that a blue car had collided with his Ford Mondeo
while he waited at the lights.

"The victim said that the car then pulled alongside his vehicle and a passenger
leaned out and used a crowbar to damage the windscreen."

It is thought the gang had dumped the Mazda, which has yet to be recovered, and
could have been on the prowl looking for further victims.

The police spokeswoman added: "The motive for both incidents is currently
unclear.

"Detectives are keen to speak to anyone who witnessed either incident or who has
any information."

Anyone with information should call police on 0151-777 4808 or Crimestoppers
anonymously on 0800 555111.

Late last year the ECHO told how carjacking gangs were targeting motorists in
Liverpool.

Businessmen and women found themselves threatened at gunpoint and with crowbars
and knives as they were forced to hand over keys to Audis, BMWs and even a taxi.

Many of the vehicles stolen were later used in crimes.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 27, 2009 Thursday

Turkey condemns terrorist attack in Afghanistan

LENGTH: 95 words


Text of report in English by Turkish semi-official news agency Anatolia

Ankara: Turkey condemned on Thursday terrorist attack in Kandahar, Afghanistan's
largest city, that killed at least 40 people and injured more than 60 others on
Tuesday.

Turkish Foreign Ministry said in a statement that Turkey was in solidarity with
Afghan people against terrorism which it said was a common enemy to humanity.

The ministry said Turkey was ready to help the people of Afghanistan in order to
secure peace and prosperity.

Source: Anatolia news agency, Ankara, in English 1013 gmt 27 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 27, 2009 Thursday

Slovak National Party leader decries "terrorist attack" on Budapest embassy

LENGTH: 421 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Slovak SITA news agency website

["SNS leader sees attack on embassy as an act of terrorism" - SITA headline]

Bratislava, 26 August: The Slovak National Party (SNS) is shocked by the night
attack on the Slovak Embassy in Budapest. On Tuesday [25-26 August] night, an
unknown perpetrator threw two bottles with what is believed to be an explosive
mix known as Molotov cocktail on the building of the Slovak Embassy. "We
consider it to be a clearly terrorist attack against our embassy and a result of
a detail-planned and long-term anti-Slovak campaign in Hungary," said SNS
chairman Jan Slota. That is why he wonders why Hungary views the incident only
as a public disturbance.

SNS wants the Slovak government to clearly tell the Hungarian representatives
what is the result of their "Great Hungarian chauvinism" in the politics of
Hungary against Slovakia as well as against other neighbouring countries, as
Ukraine, Serbia and Romania. The party urges the Slovak government to summon the
Slovak ambassador to Budapest, Peter Weiss, and instruct him to take resolute
steps. Moreover, SNS calls on Prime Minister Robert Fico to send a note to the
Hungarian Prime Minister, and on the Slovak president [Ivan Gasparovic] to
discuss the incident with his Hungarian counterpart.

SNS is concerned that unacceptable neo-Fascism is spreading in Hungary, where
they liquidate ethnic minorities and murder members of the Roma minority and
where they do not hesitate to attack an EU partner in such way. The party
underscores that the ultra-right Fidesz with neo-Nazi Jobbik have the biggest
chances to win the upcoming elections. SNS is afraid that Fidesz and Jobbik may
escalate already tense atmosphere, which may lead to a military conflict. Mr
Slota reminds that SNS has been, is and will be against any forms of violence.
That is why, he asks possible provocateurs, who would think about a revenge in
connection with the terrorist attack, to realize the danger of any revenge,
which would lower Slovakia to the level of those, "who in the name of
nationalism and Great Hungarian chauvinism attack a sovereign EU country".

On Tuesday night an unknown perpetrator threw two bottles with what is believed
to be an explosive mix known as Molotov cocktail on the building of the Slovak
Embassy in Budapest. Nobody was hurt during the night incident and only minimum
material damages were reported. The Hungarian police are investigating the case.

Source: SITA website, Bratislava, in English 26 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            August 27, 2009 Thursday

United Nations: Security Council Press Statement on Terrorist Attack in Kandahar

LENGTH: 359 words


Statement on Terrorist Attack in Kandahar

The following Security Council press statement on the terrorist attack
in Kandahar was read out today by Council President John Sawers (
United Kingdom):

The members of the Security Council condemned in the strongest terms
the terrorist attack in Kandahar on 25 August 2009, which caused
numerous deaths and injuries. The members of the Security Council
expressed their condolences to the families of the victims and to the
people and the Government of Afghanistan.

The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring
perpetrators, organizers, financiers and sponsors of these
reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice, and urged all States, in
accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant
Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Afghan
authorities in this regard.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their serious concern at
the threats posed by the Taliban, Al-Qaida, and other extremist groups,
to the local population, national security forces, international
military and international assistance efforts in Afghanistan.

The members of the Security Council reaffirmed the need to combat by
all means, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,
threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts.
The members of the Security Council reminded States that they must
ensure that measures taken to combat terrorism comply with all their
obligations under international law, in particular international human
rights, refugee and humanitarian law.

The members of the Security Council reiterated their determination to
combat all forms of terrorism, in accordance with their
responsibilities under the Charter of the United Nations.

The members of the Security Council reiterated that no terrorist act
can reverse the path towards peace, democracy and reconstruction in
Afghanistan, which is supported by the people and the Government of
Afghanistan and the international community.

((M2 Communications disclaims all liability for information provided
within
information on
on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2009 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 28, 2009 Friday

Kuwaiti Emir denounces terrorist attack on Saudi prince

LENGTH: 224 words


Text of report in English by Kuwaiti government-owned news agency Kuna website

["Hh the Emir Sends Cable of Denouncement for Saudi Leadership on Terrorist" -
KUNA Headline]

KUWAIT, Aug 28 (KUNA) - His Highness the Emir Shaykh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Jabir
al-Sabah on Friday sent a cable to Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King
Abdallah Bin-Abd-al-Aziz Al Sa'ud of Saudi Arabia, in which HH strongly
denounced the terrorist attack that targeted Prince Mohammad Bin Nayif
Bin-Abdul-Aziz, assistant of the Ministry of Interior for Security Affairs
yesterday.

HH the Emir, in the cable, reaffirmed Kuwait's repudiation of such terrorist
acts that contradict with teachings of Islam, praying to Allah all mighty to
Preserve Saudi Arabia under the leadership of King Abdallah Bin-Abd-al-Aziz.

HH the Emir also sent similar cables to Crown Prince, Deputy Premier, Minister
of Defence and Aviation and Inspector-General Prince Sultan Bin-Abd-al-Aziz
Al-Sa'ud, Second Deputy Premier, Minister of Interior Nayif Bin Abd-al-Aziz
Al-Sa'ud and to Assistant of the Minister of Interior for Security Affairs
Mohammad Bin Nayef Bin Abd-al-Aziz.

HH the Crown Prince Shaykh Nawaf Al-Ahmad Al-Jabir Al-Sabah and HH the Prime
Minister Shaykh Nasser Al-Mohammad Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah also sent similar cables.

Source: Kuna news agency website, Kuwait, in English 1232 gmt 28 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 29, 2009 Saturday

Editorial says Pakistan's Khyber attack indicates terror network still alive

LENGTH: 467 words


Text of editorial headlined "Alive and kicking" published by Pakistani newspaper
The Nation website on 29 August

The attack on security forces in Torkham area of Khyber Agency that killed at
least 22 security personnel and injured many, indicates that the terrorist
networks are still very much alive and kicking, putting an end to the euphoria
created after the death of Baitullah Mehsud. This is the first major retaliatory
attack after his death and certainly casts a pall over the security environment
of the country. Though a major chunk of the terrorist leadership of the
Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan has been eliminated and the terrorists are on the run,
they are nonetheless very much capable of creating havoc. The new commanders,
Waliur Rehman and Hakeemullah Mehsud, are certainly proving themselves to be as
ruthless as their predecessor.

The attack would also bear testimony to the failure of the military in
benefiting from the rifts in the TTP and cashing in on the opportunity to
dismantle the network. The law enforcement agencies must now be on highest
alert, not only to thwart more attempts by the network to carry out deadly
attacks but also to prevent it from organizing itself in the true sense of the
word. The military no doubt deserves a pat on the back for driving out militants
from Malakand Division, but the fact remains that the Waziristan chapter of the
TTP is still intact. The attack on Thursday [27 Aug] is a proof of that. The
government ought to realize that now is the time to act with determination.

But unfortunately, on the other side of the spectrum, there is US, which owing
to its self-serving policies has pushed Pakistan invariably between a rock and a
hard place. Its strategy of fighting militancy does not take into account
Pakistan's security dilemmas. Take drone attacks for example. True, there have
been some attacks in which important members of the terrorist outfits were
killed, but beyond that these drone strikes have largely been counterproductive.

Reportedly, around 700 hundred non-combatants have died so far as a result of US
aerial strikes in tribal areas. Just the other day, a US strike in South
Waziristan killed eight people. On the one hand, they create a backlash among
the tribals, something that provides recruits to the militants and on the other,
they are a violation of Pakistan's sovereignty. On top of that, US officials
show no disposition to distance themselves from a hostile stance aimed at
pressurizing Islamabad. The statement by Central Command Chief Gen David
Petraeus the other day that the enemy in Pakistan was far from defeated, is a
reflection of this mindset. These mood swings by the top US officials will
undermine a meaningful partnership against terrorism.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 29 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            August 29, 2009 Saturday

Arrest over '77 terrorist attack

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 78 words


Federal prosecutors said yesterday that 57-year-old Verena Becker was detained
on Thursday at her Berlin home.

Prosecutors launched a fresh investigation into Buback's assassination earlier
this year based in part on the analysis of new DNA samples. They believe Becker
played a key role in the planning and carrying out of the April 7, 1977, attack
that left Buback and two others dead.

Becker was a member of the Red Army Faction left-wing terrorist group at the
time.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 31, 2009 Monday

Algeria: Fears of terror attacks against western interests in Sahel countries

LENGTH: 491 words


Text of report by Ahmed Nacer headlined "Fears of attacks of Al-Qa'idah branch
in the Sahara on the interests of western countries: Hundreds of western
nationals evacuated from the Sahel countries", published by privately-owned
Algerian newspaper El-Khabar website on 31 August

The Algerian Ministry of Defence has allowed the flight over Algerian airspace
of western military transport aircraft which were on a humanitarian mission and
were carrying the families of western nationals who were evacuated from
Mauritania, Mali and Niger.

France and the United States evacuated more than 400 western nationals during
August, mostly from European Union countries who were in Mali and Niger. The
United States advised its citizens not to avoid travelling to Sahel countries.

The United States and France had also evacuated families of staff of western
companies operating in the oil and mining industries from Niger and Mauritania.
The United States also evacuated some 190 civil servants from the three
countries, while more than 140 Americans working in charitable organizations
left Mauritania.

Several western countries including France, Spain and Britain are considering
the assigning of the responsibility of security in its embassies in Mauritania,
Mali and Niger, as well as oil and minerals exploration companies in Niger and
Mauritania to specialized security companies. Algerian or Moroccan security
companies may win deals with global security companies to guard western
facilities in the Sahel.

An informed source told El Khabar that France, Britain, the United States and
Spain had moved dozens of their citizens from Mali, Mauritania and Niger since
last July, through Senegal, on flights that crossed Algerian airspace. At the
same time, western countries have asked their nationals not to leave major
cities in Niger and Mali and to inform security officials at embassies of their
movements. They also recommended their citizens to constantly change their daily
movements in order to avoid the surveillance of terrorist cells.

This comes at a time when an American NGO which sponsors voluntary charity
program "Peace Corps" has evacuated all its  employees from Niger, Mali and
Mauritania, and transferred a number of them to Senegal after the American
government warned its citizens not to travel to countries in Africa.

A well-informed source indicated that western countries had received a strong
security alert of the possibility of a major terrorist attack on their interests
in the Sahel region of Africa and in north Africa, in response to the military
and political actions taken by the Sahel countries in the fight against
terrorism, in addition to the expected reaction of terrorist groups following
the start of military operations against Al-Qa'idah in the Land of Islamic
Maghreb in the Sahara soon, which indicates a deterioration in the security
situation in the Sahel.

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 31 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 1, 2009 Tuesday

Terror suspect Top said planning attack on airline - Indonesian police chief

LENGTH: 215 words


On 31 August, the Indonesian news website Detikcom quoted Indonesian National
Police (Polri) Chief Bambang Hendarso Danuri as telling a meeting at the House
of representatives (DPR) building on 31 August 2009 that evidence suggested that
wanted terror suspect Mohamad Syahrir aka Aing was reportedly part of another
terrorist plot by Noordin M Top involving an airline.

There are indications that Syahrir was a qualified technician and worked as a
mechanic for Garuda Indonesia.

On 15 May 2009 in Kebumen [Central Java], Top reportedly spoke to Baridin [aka
Bahrudin Latif] (Top's father-in-law) and Syaifudin Zuhri [bin Jaelani Irsyad]
about a bomb attack which would be carried out.

Danuri said that Top is the head of an organization, but he did not elaborate.
Under Top, Ibrahim aka Ibrohim aka Boim was the strategic planner [for the
organization]. Syahrir, meanwhile, was the organization's link to the airline.

[A 31 August 2009 Detikcom article entitled 'Syaifudin Zuhri Anggota JI Generasi
Baru' quoted former Jemaah Islamiyah member Farihin as saying on 30 August that
Jaelani was part of the new generation of JI, which had grown out of the old JI
structure. He confirmed that Jaelani was an alumni of JI in Yemen and Pakistan.]

Source: Detikcom website, Jakarta, in Indonesian 31 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 2, 2009 Wednesday

Greek police purchases new equipment to deal with riots, terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 1194 words


Text of report by Greek newspaper Ta Nea on 29 August

[Report by Stelios Vradhelis: "Rubber, Taser, and Armoured Vehicles Against the
Demonstrators"]

The trial for the murder of Alexis Grigoropoulos and the anniversary of the
incident has raised the alarm in the Police.

The Greek Police is feverishly preparing to deal with an especially hot fall.
The trial of the special guards that are charged with the murder of 15-year old
Alexis Grigoropoulos, which is scheduled for the middle of October, as well as
the one-year anniversary of the event itself has raised the alarm in Greek
Police [EL.AS.], which does everything possible not to be caught asleep.

As well as the fear of a new terrorist attack, which, according to the Greek
Counterterrorism Squad, is possible due to the sad anniversary of the teen's
death, top police officials have held a number of meetings which will be
becoming even more frequent as the time approaches. Furthermore, Europol, in a
recent report, has warned about a possible terrorist attack also, raising the
temperature in Katekhaki Street [Greek Public Order Ministry] even higher.

In any event, the Greek Police has already decided to proceed with the purchase
of new weapons, including hand grenades, rubber bullets, tasers  - high voltage
stun guns - , and tank mounted water cannons.

D unit in the neighbourhoods

So far, the presence of the D unit in Athens has not justified the high
expectations that were cultivated by the Greek Interior Ministry when it was
formed. Crimes that are referred to as "everyday crimes"  - like, robberies and
thefts -  were not deterred by the presence of the D unit in the streets. On the
contrary, according to the latest figures published by the Greek Police
headquarters, crime indeed increased in the areas where the D unit has a
presence. Despite all this, the initial number of 30 units was increased and
even new units were formed in areas outside the centre of Athens. In the fall,
more men will be added to the Police force and either new units will be formed
in the areas of Kaisariani, Zografou, Menidhi, Papagou, Pefki, Kipseli,
Ambelokipi, Marousi, Nikaia, Koridhalos, and Piraeus or the existing units will
be further strengthened. A tender has already been launched for the purchase of
motorcycles that can easily carry two policemen.

Counterterrorism super bug

The super bug of the Counterterrorism Squad will be in full operational
readiness by October. This is the same type of super bug that was purchased and
used by Greek Intelligence. The German-made device of the Counterterrorism Squad
will have the capability, in the first phase, to monitor 800 persons. Its
technical standards are capable of simultaneous surveillance of conventional
phones, cell phones, faxes, e-mails, and text messages. The Greek Interior
Ministry is looking for a formula of cooperation between Greek Intelligence and
the Counterterrorism Squad to avoid the surveillance of the same persons.
Furthermore, a proposal has already been submitted for upgrading the technical
capabilities of the system for the simultaneous surveillance of 3,000 persons.
The software that is required for the upgrade costs 4 million euros.

With hand grenades expelling rubber balls

As well as the stun grenades (flashbangs), the police officers will be also
equipped with riot control hand grenades expelling small rubber balls. Top Greek
Police officials admit that the new weapon in question may indeed become
dangerous if the hand grenades are used against crowds. Nevertheless, they
clarify that the grenades are to be used by police guards of buildings, targets,
and police stations, which often become the target of attacks by anarchists. "As
a weapon, it is considered to be more effective than the stun grenades, because
it can cause minor injuries on the persons who attack and can immobilize them
for a while", an officer of the state police says in Ta Nea.

Tasers, which are high voltage stun guns, will constitute yet another asset of
the police forces. Already, a small number of tasers has been given to EKAM
[Special Counterterrorism Unit] and some arrests were carried out using them. In
the United States and Canada, where tasers are widely used, they have been
implicated in the death of several persons. There is also concern by western
European police forces about the use of tasers.

Proposals for bicycles

Officially, no one from the Interior Ministry or the headquarters of Greek
Police takes responsibility for coming up with the idea that bicycles be used in
the fight against crime. It started in Thessaloniki with the first ten policemen
on bicycles. In Athens, the proposal concerns the use of groups of policemen on
bicycles in the Dhionisios Areopagitis pedestrian walk up to the area of
Monastiraki, in Zappio, and in Pedion tou Areos.

Cameras for sure

The generals of the Greek Police have requested the acceleration of the
unblocking of the use of cameras. Their proposals, as well as the use of the
existing cameras in the centre of Athens, include also the installation of
additional cameras in crucial, as they claim, locations. Such locations are:
Solonos Street, Kharilaou Trikoupi Street, Ippokratous Street, Akadhimias
Street, Emm. Benaki Street, Asklipiou Street, Omirou Street, Amerikis Street,
Massalias Street, because the Greek Police wants to monitor any moves from the
Exarkhia area (Athens centre area).

[boxed section]

The tank mounted water cannons are coming soon

These are riot armoured vehicles mounted with water tanks and cannons that can
spray water. They are used by a number of police forces to stop big rallies. And
they are considered to be especially effective "weapons". In the past, the Greek
Police had armoured vehicles, which however, in the mid 1990s were characterized
as slow and hard to move and were withdrawn.

The immediate delivery of two such vehicles to the Attiki Police General
Directorate is expected, while the Interior Ministry has expressed the intention
to purchase eight vehicles in total, which will be distributed to Athens as well
as Thessaloniki.

According to Greek Police top officers who spoke in Ta Nea, "the vehicles that
will be delivered are relatively small in size and will be mainly used to put
out fire barriers from garbage bins, tyres, or cars that are set on fire by
rioters.

[boxed section]

They are preparing a tender for dogs and trainers

The Greek Police has already turned towards the Air Force General Staff
requesting trainers and dogs. The Police, which is in a hurry to have dogs,
submitted a request to the Air Force, which uses dogs for the protection of
airports and their trainers have the experience the Greek Police needs.

Officially, the Police wants dogs that will be used in foot patrols and will be
trained to stop criminals. A tender is about to start for additional trainers
and, depending on the number of the puppies and dogs it can get from the Air
Force, more dogs will be purchased from abroad. Top officers have also submitted
the proposal that the dogs in question be used also to avert demonstrations;
something that was initially rejected by the Greek Police headquarters.

Source: Ta Nea, Athens, in Greek 29 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                          September 2, 2009 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Hero cop's actions saved untold lives after terror attack;
PRAISE AS STEWART PICKS UP A PRESTIGIOUS AWARD

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 569 words


BRAVE officer Stewart Ferguson has been honoured with one of the highest
national bravery awards for the role he played in foiling the Glasgow Airport
terror attack.

The Paisley-based policeman received a bronze medal from the Royal Humane
Society in recognition of his courageous actions on June 30, 2007.

PC Ferguson swung into action on the day terror came to our doorstep as Dr Bilal
Abdulla, 29, and his accomplice Kafeel Ahmed, 28, targeted the airport in a car
bomb attack.

They had transformed an ordinary suburban home in the quiet Renfrewshire village
of Houston into a bomb factory, where they made a number of potentially lethal
devices.

The pair then drove a burning Jeep Cherokee filled with gas canisters into the
main doors at the airport.

When Abdulla got out and ran back towards the burning vehicle, driver Ahmed -
whose body was on fire - emerged and PC Ferguson put the flames on his skin out
with a fire extinguisher. The award from the Royal Humane Society is the second
time PC Ferguson has been recognised for his actions at the airport that day.

In January this year, the 42-year-old cop was among 39 Strathclyde Police
officers who were honoured at a special ceremony for the role they played in
responding to the terror attack.

PC Ferguson, who has around 25 years' service as a cop, received the Strathclyde
Chief Constable's Very High Commendation at the ceremony in Glasgow City
Chambers.

He was only at the airport that day in June 2007 to collect his parents at
arrivals.

But PC Ferguson said he didn't hesitate to act when the burning Jeep crashed
into the terminal building.

He added: "It initially seemed to me to be a road accident or a road rage
incident. I was off-duty and could easily have walked away but your instincts as
a police officer kick in. It's an instinctive thing.

"The driver was fully engulfed in flames and was lying on his back. I got a
large water fire extinguisher and proceeded to put him out.

"But I wasn't prepared for his second wind.

"He actually got to his feet and tried to exchange blows."

The airport was experiencing its busiest day of the year when Abdulla and Ahmed
struck and the Jeep filled with gas canisters would have caused untold carnage
if it had exploded.

PC Ferguson and his colleagues have been credited with saving countless lives
through their heroic actions.

His latest award has been personally approved by Princess Alexandra, the Royal
Humane Society's president.

Dick Wilkinson, the society's secretary, who announced the award, said: "PC
Ferguson showed the very highest levels of heroism on that fateful day on June
30, 2007.

"When he arrived at the scene, the vehicle was on fire and the driver, who was
also on fire, was attempting to access the rear of the vehicle.

"This brave officer cleared the area of the public and ran to get a fire
extinguisher. Despite several explosions in the vehicle, he discharged the
extinguisher at the man and doused the flames. He then assisted in containing
the two terrorists.

"His actions saved the terrorist and untold lives."

In December last year, evil Abdulla, who worked as a doctor at Paisley's Royal
Alexandra Hospital, was jailed for at least 32 years at Woolwich Crown Court
after he was found guilty of conspiracy to murder and conspiracy to cause
explosions.

His accomplice Ahmed died from his extensive burns a month after he staged the
terror attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PRIDE: The officer already has a police bravery award FIRE: The car
exploded as it smashed into the airport

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          September 2, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hollyoaks star terror as lover is attacked

BYLINE: VINCE SOODIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 168 words


HORRIFIED Hollyoaks star Hollie-Jay Bowes saw her boyfriend get his jaw broken
by a hoodie who had been taunting her, a court heard yesterday.

The 20-year-old actress bundled blood-spattered Martin Shepherdson into a cab
after he was attacked outside a club by thug Jake Albison.

Albison, 20, recognised Hollie-Jay - Michaela McQueen in the Channel 4 soap -
and shouted: "Hollyoaks! Hollyoaks!" He pushed Martin as the couple walked away.
Martin, 23, asked what he was doing and the yob punched him in the face.
Hollie-Jay had Martin rushed to hospital after the incident in Oldham, Greater
Manchester, last October. His jaw was fractured in three places.

Albison, of Oldham, admitted GBH at Minshull Street Crown Court, Manchester. He
got a 36-week suspended jail sentence and 300 hours of unpaid work.

Judge Yvonne Coppel told the yob: "This was a serious assault on a young man
whose girlfriend you had been taunting because you recognised her from a TV
programme. You pushed and hit him in an unprovoked attack."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hoodie ... Albison
Taunted ... Hollie-Jay

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Western Gazette series

                               September 3, 2009

Memories of terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 716 words


Bomb attacks in Spain have stirred up painful memories for a Dorchester resident
who was caught in a terrorist strike while on holiday seven years ago.

Margaret Morrissey was staying at Las Piramides hotel in Fuengirola on the
morning of 21 June 2002 when it was shaken by a huge bomb planted by the Basque
separatist group Eta.

Mrs Morrissey, aged 65, of Poundbury said news of bombings in Burgos and Majorca
in July, in which two people were killed and 40 injured, has brought back
disturbing images of that fateful morning.

She said: "We were asleep in bed at 7am. All of a sudden the room moved,
everything flew up in the air, and we found ourselves in the bathroom.

"It was like in films, where everything comes apart and starts flying. I was
frightened but we managed to pull ourselves together enough to see what had
happened.

"In a way, we were lucky to have been thrown across the room. The large sheet
windows had been blown out and they would have fallen on to us. The enormous
noise of the blast was followed by a silence that I've never been able to
describe to anyone. I had never experienced it before and, thank God, I haven't
since. It was a deadly silence, like the world had ended. Then the noise of
alarms and sirens erupted. Looking out, we saw reflections of flames in the
windows of the hotel opposite. In our naivety we thought the other hotel was on
fire. We switched on the television and we saw the breaking news. I thought: 'My
God, that's our hotel'."

The hotel had borne the brunt of a car bomb that caused nearly £500,000 damage.
British holiday makers were among those injured by shrapnel but no-one was
killed.

Mrs Morrissey said: "It totally destroyed half the hotel. A big greenhouse, as
big as two houses, had been picked up and wrung out like a cloth. How the hotel
stayed standing I'll never know. Afterwards the foyer was full of guests,
including 20 American schoolgirls who had survived 9/11. They were totally
hysterical.

"The hotel staff had gone; they had just run away. No-one was there to help us.
The police had sealed the hotel doors so we were locked in. They had been told
there was another bomb just outside the hotel doors and they thought we were
safer inside than out. Eventually we were all led out to a side street. We
managed to get hold of our travel agent, who said she would find us another
place to stay in Marbella. Ten minutes later she rang back to say Eta had set
off another bomb in Marbella. Obviously we said we weren't going and we made
plans to go home. It was terribly traumatic. We were totally in shock. On the
plane home I feared there may have been another bomb on board and had a panic
attack."

On Wednesday last week, Spain's interior minister Alfredo Rubalcaba said weapons
caches had been seized following July's atrocities, proving Eta was still a
threat. Mrs Morrissey said she still bears psychological scars from her
experience and carries a deep loathing of the terrorists who wanted to kill
people for political gain.

"When you see something on television like this it really affects you. The
images are still very clear in my mind. It's right there in front of me, even
now," she said. "Every so often I'll see something, hear something or smell
something that reminds me of it, and the fact that I was so close to dying comes
right back to me. That might sound dramatic, but that's the fact of the matter.
The bomb was designed to kill. We have never understood what made them choose
that hotel in that road in that town.

"It took away part of my life; the confidence I had that if I did everything
right and behaved decently, everything would be okay. Now I know life's not like
that, because you can't control the actions of others. If someone really wants
to do evil, they will. I see danger in everything.

"That feeling is never going to go away. None of us that day should have
survived the bombing but we did. There probably won't be a second chance and if
it happened again, I won't be as lucky. Only cats have nine lives. In years
past, Eta probably had a justification for fighting for independence and
freedom, but not in today's world. It's not acceptable. What did I have to do
with it? Killing by bombs is not the way to get what you want. It's a horrible
way to kill someone too. There were children there."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 250


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            September 4, 2009 Friday

Pakistani TV show discusses rise in terror attacks after Taleban chief's death

LENGTH: 1223 words


Karachi Geo News television in Urdu at 1600 GMT on 2 September relays live
regularly scheduled "Today with Kamran Khan" program. Noted Pakistani journalist
Kamran Khan reviews, discusses, and analyzes major day-to-day developments with
government ministers and officials, opposition leaders, and prominent analysts
in Geo TV's flagship program. Words within double slant lines originally in
English.

Program: "Today with Kamran Khan"

Reception: Good

Duration: 60 minutes

Segment I

Khan says: "Today, there was an assassination attempt on Hamid Syed Kazmi,
federal minister for religious affairs, in Islamabad, which he luckily survived.
However, his car driver got killed and his bodyguard was wounded in the attack.
The reason behind the new wave of suicide attacks is the operation against
Tehreek-e-Taliban [TTP] and death of TTP chief Baitullah Mehsud. This attack can
be regarded as backlash from the Taliban. In today's program, we'll discuss why
this attack has been carried out."

Khan establishes a video link with Mazhar Tufail, a senior reporter of The News
Islamabad, and asks him what is the security forces' assessment as to who is
behind the attack, and if there was a prior information of it? Tufail replies:
"According to the security agencies, they had forewarned the government
officials through a report that anti-Pakistan foreign elements are trying to
make ground for //sectarian violence// in the country. They had also warned that
after the successful operation in Swat, the second or third tier of the Taliban
can retaliate out of frustration by conducting such kind of attacks." Khan asks:
"Terrorists generally go for suicide bombing or attack that can cause maximum
damage. This attack was a different one." Tufail replies: "The second tier
Taliban are now trying to use //like-minded// people as their fringe power to
conduct such attacks to sustain their dying movement."

Segment II

Khan says: "Opinion surveys in the United States affirm that a vast majority of
Americans have now started to urge the Obama administration to withdraw forces
from Afghanistan. A columnist, George F. Will, of the Washington Post has also
asserted in his article yesterday that it is 'time to get out of Afghanistan.'
Another article of the Washington Post today says: 'Taliban surprising US forces
with improved tactics.' A military commander says through the Washington Post
that the Taliban are fighting with passion and gallantry, and their attitude
reflects a great new confidence in them, and they are providing training to the
people of the areas under their control."

Khan establishes a video link with Rahimullah Yousafzai, resident editor, The
News, Peshawar, and asks him why the mass opinion in the United States itself is
tilting in favor of the withdrawal of forces? Yousafzai replies: "The United
States had assumed that troops surge in Afghanistan or particularly in Helmand
Province will serve their purpose well, but the outcome was beyond their
expectations. The recent wave of attacks in Kabul is another surprise for them,
and now they have started realizing that it would be next to impossible to quell
the resistance." Khan asks: "Do you think the unreliable Afghan presidential
election is also a reason behind change in opinion?" Yousafzai replies: "Since
Karzai got himself reelected in an unmerited way, the United States feels
hesitant to support his government, which they believe cannot bring any positive
change in favor of the people of Afghanistan."

Segment III

Khan says: "According to Indian and American analysts, the remarkable
advancement in Pakistan's missile program has taken them by surprise. Deepak
Kapoor, Indian chief of staff, has stated that Pakistan's proficiency in this
field is causing alarm in India, and that Pakistan has acquired more nuclear
weapons than needed to sustain minimum deterrence. According to a report
published in The Times of India, Pakistan has got highly sophisticated delivery
system, which is primarily aimed at India; Pakistan is producing nuclear,
ballistic, and cruise missiles and the manufacturing of the nuclear cruise
missile is indicative of Pakistan's ability to switch the uranium based atomic
program to the one based on plutonium, which means that Pakistan is entering a
new chapter altogether. Similar concerns have been expressed by the Indian naval
chief, Admiral Nirmal Varma, as well."

Khan establishes a video link with Lieutenant General [Retired] Talat Masood, a
defense analyst, and asks him to comment on the Indian acknowledgment of
Pakistan's nuclear and missile technology. Masood replies: "Pakistan's missile
program is quite comprehensive and is capable of producing a range of missiles.
Perhaps, the projection of the Indian concerns about Pakistan's proficiency in
this field is an attempt to seek an excuse to justify their own plans of nuclear
advancement. Second, they want to keep Pakistan under pressure. The US interest
to put pressure on Pakistan derives from their need for Pakistan to spend all
its energies on war against terror, instead of enhancing its nuclear
capability." Khan asks: "Do you think Pakistan's nuclear and missile program is
better than that of India?" Masood replies: "No doubt, Pakistan's missile
program is at par with India, but what gives India an extra advantage is their
//space program//; what gives Pakistan an extra advant! age is its capability to
produce cruise missile indigenously. Pakistan is now in a position to start
producing plutonium-based nuclear //warheads//, which are much lighter than the
one based on uranium, and for that matter, can be transported over a larger
distance."

Segment IV

Khan says: "Former President Pervez Musharraf has arrived in Saudi Arabia, and
it is again time for Saudi Arabia to play a role in Pakistani politics to
assuage Nawaz Sharif's feelings against Musharraf and to make possible
reconciliation between them."

Khan establishes a video link with Zahid Malik, editor-in-chief, Pakistan
Observer, and asks him what role Saudi Arabia is playing in Pakistani politics?
Malik replies: "The relationship between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia is so full of
affinity that it makes them one nation living in two different states. Saudi
Arabia has always been very keen to rescue Pakistani politics when it is being
faced by some crisis." Khan asks: "Do you think the Saudi Arabian authorities
will be able to assuage Sharif's vendetta driven feelings?" Malik replies: "Yes
they can make Sharif to renounce his plan of reciprocating what Musharraf had
done to him."

Segment V

Khan says: "The Lahore High Court has reversed its earlier order of disabling
the security protocol of Dr A.Q. Khan. Dr Khan is back in the //security
protocol//, which has maintained invidious restrictions on his movement for the
past five years now."

Khan establishes a video link with Ali Zafar, Dr Khan's lawyer, and asks him
what the status of Dr Khan's protocol is now? Zafar replies: "The court will
decide on 15 September whether or not the appeal filed by the government is
maintainable. The Islamabad High Court had decided that Dr Khan is a free man;
however, the federal government imposed restrictions on him in the name of the
so-called security protocol, violating Islamabad High Court's decision."

Khan concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1600gmt 02 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            September 4, 2009 Friday

Ahmadinejad's cabinet: hardliners, the first woman - and man wanted over terror
attack: Leader consolidates power but three nominees rejected: Defence minister
faces bomb charges in Argentina

BYLINE: Julian Borger, Diplomatic editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 672 words


Mahmoud Ahmadinejad took an important step yesterday towards consolidating his
power in the wake of disputed elections, winning parliamentary support for most
of his new cabinet, including a defence minister wanted in connection with a
terrorist attack in Argentina 15 years ago.

Ahmadinejad presented the vote, which confirmed 18 of his ministerial nominees,
as a "crushing response" to pressure from western powers, whom he has accused of
backing post-election protests.

Bolstered by the unexpectedly strong show of support in the parliament, or
majlis, he shrugged off the threat of further sanctions over Iran's nuclear
programme. "No one can impose sanctions against Iran any more. We welcome
sanctions," he told reporters.

The approval of a hardline cabinet to underpin Ahmadinejad's second term is the
latest sign of the conservative faction consolidating its position after two
turbulent months in which the Iranian regime was shaken by the force of
opposition protests at the incumbent's re-election.

The severity of the crackdown angered some conservatives as well as moderates in
the political establishment, and many observers predicted Ahmadinejad would have
problems gaining parliamentary endorsement for his new government.

Yesterday, however, the parliament voted in support of all but three of the
nominees, including a defence minister, Ahmad Vahidi, who faces charges in
Argentina for his alleged role in the bombing of a Buenos Aires Jewish cultural
centre in 1994. Vahidi won 227 out of 286 votes, more than any other nominee.

Vahidi promised parliament: "All those who act against Iran will face the iron
fist of the Iranian government, nation and armed forces. "

Marzieh Vahid Dastjerdi also won approval as health minister, making her Iran's
first woman minister since the Islamic revolution.

"I think today women reached their long-standing dream of having a woman in the
cabinet to pursue their demands," Dastjerdi said "This is an important step for
women and I hold my head high."

Ahmadinejad himself claimed that Iran had delivered a package of proposals for
nuclear talks, but diplomats in Brussels, London and Washington said no such
proposals had been received. Iran has so far defied UN security council
resolutions calling on it to suspend the enrichment of uranium, which Tehran
insists is for peaceful purposes.

Envoys from six major powers met in Germany on Wednesday to discuss the Iranian
nuclear standoff and gave Tehran until the end of the month to respond to an
invitation for talks, or face further sanctions. The deadline will expire at the
UN general assembly debate beginning on 23 September, which is expected to be
attended by both Ahmadinejad and Barack Obama.

However, it remains unclear whether tougher UN sanctions will follow that
deadline. Russia and China remain resist ant to punitive measures being pushed
by the US, Britain, France and - increasingly - Germany, but they are said to be
pushing Tehran to enter substantive talks on enrichment in the next few weeks. A
meeting of foreign ministers from the six-nation group, known as the E3 + 3, is
provisionally planned for the week of the general assembly, to assess Iran's
response, or lack of response.

Ahmadinejad will be making his first foray into the west since the June
elections. The new cabinet is packed with hardline Ahmadinejad loyalists,
helping to consolidate his hold on the levers of power. Heidar Moslehi, an
acolyte of the president, was made intelligence minister following a purge of
officials who had questioned the post-election crackdown.

However, it was not an outright victory for Ahmadinejad. Two other women
nominees, for the health and social welfare ministries, were voted down, as well
as his choice for the energy ministry.

"He's won the battle but not the war. This does not mean this is going to be a
rubber stamp majlis," said Meir Javedanfar, the head of the Middle East Economic
and Political Analysis thinktank. "But it was a surprise. Many people were
expecting bigger opposition from the parliament."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Kent Messenger

                               September 4, 2009

Woman and dogs in street attack terror

LENGTH: 255 words


by Chris Hunter

chunter@thekmgroup.co.uk

A 10-YEAR-OLD labrador was injured after it was pounced upon and pinned to the
floor by two akita dogs.

Kate Griffiths says she was walking her two dogs, Molly and Eva, along Cranbrook
High Street on Saturday morning when she spotted the two akita dogs.

While the 18-year-old said she was wary of the dogs, she had no idea they were
about to attack.

Trouble

"They were sitting with their owner," she said. "I assumed because they were on
the pavement they wouldn't cause trouble.

"When I got to them they immediately pushed straight past me."

While younger dog Eva managed to get away, running into the arms of a nearby
pedestrian, 10-year-old Molly was caught by the akitas.

Kate said: "They jumped on her. It was horrible. People came out of houses just
because of the noise.

"I couldn't even see my dog because the two akitas were on top and the owner was
on top of them."

The attack eventually came to an end, and Molly was taken to a vet to be treated
for bite wounds.

Painkillers

Kate and her mother Susan are now trying to track down a passer-by who helped
Kate, who was traumatised, get her dog to a nearby vet.

Molly is now on antibiotics and painkillers, while her owners say the akitas
need to be investigated.

Tunbridge Wells council said it was not aware of the incident, but confirmed
that claims following dog on dog attacks were always a civil matter.

A spokeswoman added: "If the owner of the akita dogs were known to us we could
offer advice on steps to take to prevent future incidents."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           September 5, 2009 Saturday
                                 First Edition

'When the security of our country is at stake we cannot walkaway' ;
PM insists Afghan action is crucial to prevent terror attacks in the UK away'

BYLINE: Tomos Livingstone

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 579 words


GORDON BROWN sought to restate the case for Britain's increasingly bloody
presence in Afghanistan yesterday, insisting it would be wrong to "walk away"
from the conflict.

The Prime Minister said the campaign was crucial to protect civilians in this
country from terrorist attacks.

A total of 212 British soldiers have died in Afghanistan, including 41 in July
and August alone. Fresh doubts about the mission, which dates back to the
aftermath of the 9/11 terror attacks in 2001, were raised by MP Eric Joyce, who
resigned from his post as a Ministry of Defence aide on Thursday evening.

But Mr Brown said: "Each time I have to ask myself if we are doing the right
thing by being in Afghanistan.

Each time I have to ask myself if we can justify sending our young men and women
to fight for this cause. And my answer has always been yes."

He said training for the Afghan army would be speeded up, a move which could
bring the pull-out date for UK troops closer. Mr Brown said: "When the security
of our country is at stake, we cannot walk away.

"When the stability of this volatile region, spanning the Afghanistan-Pakistan
border, has such a profound impact on the security of Britain and the rest of
the international community, we cannot just do nothing and leave the peoples of
Pakistan and Afghanistan to struggle with these global problems on their own."
He added: "Our aim in 2009 is the same as in 2001. We are in Afghanistan as a
result of a hard-headed assessment of the terrorist threat facing Britain."

Mr Brown said he wanted to see the "Afghanisation" of the conflict, with the
Afghan army taking a greater role in tackling the Taliban. The British Army is
already training the Afghan army and aims to complete an expansion of the force
from 80,000 to 134,000 by November 2010.

Meanwhile, the bodies of Sergeant Stuart Millar, 40, and Private Kevin Elliott,
24, who were both killed in Helmand province in southern Afghanistan on Monday,
were flown home yesterday.

And a soldier killed by an explosion in Afghanistan on Wednesday was named by
the Ministry of Defence as Lance Corporal Richard James Brandon of the Corps of
Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers.

Last night, Defence Secretary Bob Ainsworth said he would not set an "artificial
deadline" for the reduction of British forces, adding that it would be
"ridiculous" to say the mission would carry on for a set period. He said: "I
have said before that I think we will be able to show progress within the next
year or so."

Paul Flynn, the Labour MP for Newport West and a long-standing critic of the
war, said Mr Brown's speech showed he remained attached the "fantasy" that
Britain could succeed in Afghanistan.

Mr Flynn said: "It has to be recognised that militarily we are in a dire
situation. We should concentrate on a peace strategy and do a deal, which we
will have to do eventually. The Canadians have given a timetable.

"I think there will be collapse in public support - 212 soldiers have died,
there is repeated publicity and people are asking, where is the advantage? Where
are the gains?" Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg said: "After pursuing an
over-ambitious and under-resourced strategy for eight years, it's hard to
believe that increasing the training of the Afghan police and army will now do
the trick.

"We need a bolder change of strategy to turn things around. When it comes to
Afghanistan, we need to do things properly or not at all."

Your vote: page 16 more

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  'DOING THE RIGHT THING': Gordon Brown yesterday. He said training for
the Afghan army would be speeded up which could bring the pull-out date for UK
troops closer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            September 6, 2009 Sunday

LIZ JONES: MY TERROR OVER GUN ATTACK ON MY EXMOOR HOME

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN PETRE AND NICK CONSTABLE

LENGTH: 599 words


OEI FLED LONDON TO ESCAPE GUNFIRE AND AGGRESSION!

MAIL on Sunday columnist Liz Jones has spoken of her shock after the mailbox at
her country home was peppered by shotgun pellets in what she believes was a
retaliation attack for barbed comments she has made about the area.

The shooting at her isolated farmhouse on the edge of Exmoor in Somerset, which
is being investigated by police, has left her so distressed that she is thinking
of moving.

Ms Jones, 51, has used her columns in The Mail on Sunday!s You magazine and a
new book to describe her often painful efforts to adapt to rural life after
years in London.

But her depiction of local men as OElucky to have teeth! and of car parks in
nearby Yeovil as OEawash! with hard drugs has upset some neighbours.

Yesterday, however, she defended her comments and said she supported the local
community. OEI!m disappointed and shocked because I have never been nasty about
people personally,! she said. OEI am quite shocked at how small-minded people
are.!

She insisted that she was not fearful for her own safety, but only for her
horses, dogs and sheep.

But she added: OEI might well move. I don!t mind people hating me, but if they
do drive me out of the area, lots of people I employ will be made redundant.

OEI moved from London to get away from gunfire, feral children and aggression.
It is a shame if country people could drive people like me out of the area. I am
pretty fed up. If I go a lot of people will be put out of work. My gardener, my
groom, the builders, everyone. I put a lot back into the community.!

In one of her columns, the single divorcee complained: OEIf men have teeth in
the West Country, it!s a bonus: anyone mobile enough not to need Meals on Wheels
upped sticks long ago in search of work above the minimum wage.!

She claimed that shelf-stackers in her area all have learning difficulties and
OEhave never heard of Illy coffee!. And her recent book The Exmoor Files,
detailing her move from North London to Brushford in West Somerset, did little
to improve her popularity.

But she defended her comments, saying: OEI wrote about Yeovil having a drug
problem, for example, but it does have a drug problem. My friend!s daughter is
in a coma. She bought her drugs in car parks in Yeovil. We can!t gloss over what
is happening.!

The shotgun attack was reported to police on Thursday by Ms Jones!s groom Nicola
Bebb after builders working at the farm noticed a six-inch wide dent in a metal
mailbox fixed to the wooden gate at the end of the drive, about 50 yards from
the main house.

Ms Bebb said: OEShooting a mailbox is an atrocious thing to do. People claim she
is not friendly, but how welcoming is that? Liz is incredibly upset and hurt
because she tries so hard to provide business for people round here.

OEEveryone knows her here and it!s very difficult to live somewhere if you!re
blatantly not liked.!

Neighbours also condemned the shooting. At the local shop, the Carnarvon Arms
store, assistant Gina McIntyre said: OEIt is pretty scary, actually, especially
for a single woman.!

Ms Jones!s gardener, Brian Greenslade, added: OESomeone has done this to
frighten her but she won!t bother much with that.!

One local farmer, who refused to be named, said: OEShe portrays us as a bunch of
toothless inbreds who eat only basket meals and rum baba and spend our spare
time being cruel to animals.

OEIt!s not true and has rubbed everyone up the wrong way. But taking potshots at
her property is outrageous.!

Avon and Somerset Police say they are keeping OEan open mind! about the attack.
A spokeswoman said: OEWe!re treating this as damage to a mailbox.!

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 6, 2009, Sunday

RELIVING THE TERROR ATTACKS;
TV

BYLINE: Steve Hendry

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 190 words


No one who witnessed the horror of the terrorist attack on the World Trade
Centre on September 11, 2001 will ever forget it.

And no one who watches this documentary about that horrifying event eight years
ago will be left unmoved by its contents. The oneoff film relives the shocking
event through the final messages - left on personal answering machines and to
the emergency services - by many of those trapped inside the towers facing
death.

They remain heartbreakingly sad and haunting for those hearing them for the
first time but, as the film shows, have given great comfort to the loved ones
left behind.

9/11: 102 Minutes That Changed America (Monday, Channel 4, 9pm): It seems
incredible but just 102 minutes passed between the first plane's impact into the
North Tower to the second plane's attack on the South Tower, followed by the
eventual collapse of both buildings.

During that time, the people of New York reached for their cameras and took
footage as the harrowing events unfolded.

This film joins together hundreds of pieces of footage to create an intensely
personal, moving account of an event which has scarred the world forever.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 9/11: Phone Calls from the Towers Today, Channel 4, 9pm

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                               September 6, 2009

Thai terror campaign continues with further attacks in south

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 451 words


A spate of shootings, bombings and military raids last week left 12 people dead
and dozens wounded in Thailand's restive south, where a terror campaign has
killed more than 3,700 people since January 2004.

The surge in violence coincided with the Muslim celebration of Ramadan. ''The
number of incidents goes up every year during this period," said Srisompob
Jitpiromsri, of Pattani's Prince of Songkhla University. ''Some believe that
insurgents stage symbolic attacks during Ramadan, to demonstrate that their
objective is ethno-political, rather than religious."

Last week's killings took place just a few hours' drive from Thai land's popular
southern beaches and resorts. So far, however, the insurgents have not targeted
foreigners or Thailand's tourist infrastructure, which may explain why the
beheadings, bombings and drive-by shootings have not yet altered tourists'
perceptions of this holiday paradise.

However, the country's export-oriented economy is struggling amid the global
downturn, and is expected to shrink by between 2.8 and 3.6 per cent this
year.That downturn, combined with domestic political unrest, has also hit
tourist numbers.

In the first seven months of 2009, the number of arrivals fell by 15.5 per cent,
a significant drop as the sector contributed almost 6 per cent to the country's
GDP last year. Most of the 1.8 million people in Thailand's three southernmost
provinces are Malay-speaking Muslims, but they make up only 2 per cent of a
largely Buddhist country. More Muslims than Buddhists have been killed since the
violence began in 2004.

The region - once known as the Pattani Sultanate - was incorporated into the
kingdom of Siam under a 1909 treaty with Britain, which then ruled what later
became Malaysia to the south. Siam, now called Thailand, was never colonised.
But attempts to assimilate the Muslims have been met with rebellion.

The current hostilities erupted under former prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra,
who is now in exile after being ousted in a military coup three years ago.
Unlike Islamist terrorists or insurgency elsewhere, the perpetrators neither
declare responsibility for attacks, nor align themselves with any particular
political goal. It is assumed that they are seeking increased regional autonomy
for Malay Muslims, though their precise motives remain unclear.

Despite the spiral of violence, the Muslim insurgency in the south is something
of a sideshow to mainstream Thai politics.

The capital, Bangkok, remains beset by ongoing protests and demonstrations by
redshirted supporters of Thaksin and yellow-clad royalists. The redshirts
postponed a rally scheduled for last weekend after the government deployed 5,000
troops on the city streets.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            September 7, 2009 Monday

Feature - Pan AM terror attack - Megrahi: A pawn in the game;
The man who took the rap for the Lockerbie blast was almost certainly framed by
the West, says John Pilger

LENGTH: 996 words


The hysteria over the release of the so-called Lockerbie bomber reveals much
about the political and media class on both sides of the Atlantic, especially
Britain.

From Gordon Brown's "repulsion" to Barack Obama's "outrage," the theatre of lies
and hypocrisy is dutifully attended by those who call themselves journalists.

"But what if Megrahi lives longer than three months?" whined a BBC reporter to
the Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond.

"What will you say to your constituents, then?"

Horror of horrors that a dying man should live longer than prescribed before he
"pays" for his "heinous crime" - the description of the Scottish Justice
Minister Kenny MacAskill, whose "compassion" allowed Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed
al-Megrahi to go home to Libya to "face justice from a higher power."

Amen.

The US satirist Larry David once addressed a voluble crony as "a babbling brook
of bullshit." Such eloquence summarises the circus of Megrahi's release.

No-one in authority has had the guts to state the truth about the bombing of Pan
Am Flight 103 above the Scottish village of Lockerbie on December 21 1988, in
which 270 people were killed.

The governments in England and Scotland in effect blackmailed Megrahi into
dropping his appeal as a condition of his immediate release.

Of course there were oil and arms deals under way with Libya. But had Megrahi
proceeded with his appeal, some 600 pages of new and deliberately suppressed
evidence would have set the seal on his innocence and given us more than a
glimpse of how and why he was stitched up for the benefit of "strategic
interests."

"The endgame came down to damage limitation," said the former CIA officer Robert
Baer, who took part in the original investigation, "because the evidence amassed
by (Megrahi's) appeal is explosive and extremely damning to the system of
justice."

New witnesses would show that it was impossible for Megrahi to have bought
clothes that were found in the wreckage of the Pan Am aircraft - he was
convicted on the word of a Maltese shop-owner who claimed to have sold him the
clothes, then gave a false description of him in 19 separate statements and even
failed to recognise him in the courtroom.

The new evidence would have shown that a fragment of a circuit board and bomb
timer, "discovered" in the Scottish countryside and said to have been in
Megrahi's suitcase, was probably a plant.

A forensic scientist found no trace of an explosion on it. The new evidence
would demonstrate the impossibility of the bomb beginning its journey in Malta
before it was "transferred" through two airports undetected to Flight 103.

A "key secret witness" at the original trial, who claimed to have seen Megrahi
and his co-accused, al-Alim Khalifa Fahimah (who was acquitted), loading the
bomb on to the plane at Frankfurt, was bribed by the US authorities holding him
as a "protected witness."

aThe defence exposed him as a CIA informer who stood to collect, on the Libyans'
conviction, up to $4 million as a reward.

Megrahi was convicted by three Scottish judges sitting in a courtroom in
"neutral" Holland. There was no jury. One of the few reporters to sit through
the long and often farcical proceedings was the late Paul Foot, whose landmark
investigation in Private Eye exposed it as a cacophony of blunders, deceptions
and lies - a whitewash.

The Scottish judges, while admitting a "mass of conflicting evidence" and
rejecting the fantasies of the CIA informer, found Megrahi guilty on hearsay and
unproven circumstance. Their 90-page "opinion," wrote Foot, "is a remarkable
document that claims an honoured place in the history of British miscarriages of
justice." (His report, Lockerbie - the Flight from Justice, can be downloaded
from www.private-eye.co.uk for £5.)

Foot reported that most of the staff of the US embassy in Moscow who had
reserved seats on Pan Am flights from Frankfurt cancelled their bookings when
they were alerted by US intelligence that a terrorist attack was planned.

He named Margaret Thatcher the "architect" of the cover-up after revealing that
she killed the independent inquiry her transport secretary Cecil Parkinson had
promised the Lockerbie families.

And in a phone call to president George Bush Sr on January 11 1990, she agreed
to "low-key" the disaster after their intelligence services had reported "beyond
doubt" that the Lockerbie bomb had been placed by a Palestinian group,
contracted by Tehran, as a reprisal for the shooting down of an Iranian airliner
by a US warship in Iranian territorial waters.

Among the 290 dead were 66 children. In 1990, the ship's captain was awarded the
Legion of Merit by Bush Sr "for exceptionally meritorious conduct in the
performance of outstanding service as commanding officer."

Perversely, when Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait in 1991, Bush needed Iran's
support as he built a "coalition" to expel his wayward client from a US oil
colony.

The only country that defied Bush and backed Iraq was Libya.

"Like lazy and overfed fish," wrote Foot, "the British media jumped to the bait.
In almost unanimous chorus, they engaged in furious vilification and open
warmongering against Libya."

The framing of Libya for the Lockerbie crime was inevitable. Since then, a US
defence intelligence agency report, obtained under Freedom of Information, has
confirmed these truths and identified the likely bomber - it was to be the
centrepiece of Megrahi's defence.

In 2007, the Scottish criminal cases review commission referred Megrahi's case
for appeal.

"The commission is of the view," said its chairman Graham Forbes, "based upon
our lengthy investigations, the new evidence we have found and other evidence
which was not before the trial court, that the applicant may have suffered a
miscarriage of justice."

The words "miscarriage of justice" are entirely missing from the current furore,
with MacAskill reassuring the baying mob that the scapegoat will soon face
justice from that "higher power."

What a disgrace.

- This article appeared in the New Statesman.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            September 7, 2009 Monday

Family's arson attack terror

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 323 words


Sion morgan

A TERRIFIED grand- dad is living in fear after arsonists tried to burn down his
house.

Kevin Scallan has described how flammable liquid was poured through the
letterbox of his Cwmavon home on Friday night while his three-year-old
grand-daughter slept upstairs.

The attack is the second of its kind in the Neath Port Talbot area in a
fortnight and has left the 51-year-old shaken.

"It's terrifying because I had my three-year-old grand-daughter and 10- year-old
nephew staying at the house on Friday night and I don't want to think what could
have happened to them," Mr Scallan said.

"Someone just poured turps through our letterbox and then lit a piece of paper
and threw that through.

"Luckily the fire alarm woke me up and I was able to put out the flames myself
before the fire brigade arrived.

"There's some fire damage to the front door but it could have been a lot worse."

Fire officers were called to 24 Heol Tabor at 11.54 on Friday night.

A spokesman for the fire service confirmed the incident is being treated as
arson. He said: "The fire was caused by an accelerant being poured through the
letterbox and lit using white tissue paper.

"The incident is under investigation."

It is the second blaze of it's kind in the county borough in a matter of weeks.

On Thursday August 27 fire crews from Neath and Port Talbot were called out to a
similar incident at Collins Street, Briton Ferry.

Twenty-year-old Carl Thomas Moule, of Penrhiwtyn Street, Neath was arrested
following the fire and appeared before Swansea magistrates on Saturday.

It is understood that nobody has been arrested following the incident in Cwmavon
and Mr Scallan says he is living in fear.

"It is a worry that incidents like this are becoming more common.

"And the fact that we know this person is still out there makes me very restless

"I can't relax knowing they are out there somewhere."

Meanwhile police have confirmed that enquiries into the incident are ongoing.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 37


                    Copyright 2009 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday

Chinese police official: Urumqi syringe attacks "violent terrorist crime"

LENGTH: 328 words


Text of report in English by official Chinese news agency Xinhua (New China News
Agency)

[Xinhua: "Urumqi Syringe Attacks Are "Violent Terrorist Crime": Police
Official"]

Urumqi, Sept. 8 (Xinhua) - The syringe attacks in Urumqi, capital of northwest
China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, were a copy of violent terrorist
crimes and not just normal crimes, said a police official late Tuesday.

"The attacks are copies of violent terrorist crimes," said Du Xintao, an
official with the regional Public Security Department, at a press conference.

The recent syringe attacks were neither some individuals' practical jokes, nor
simple criminal activities, but organized and planned major adverse events,
which had disturbed social order and created an atmosphere of fear, Du said.

The attacks were aimed at individuals on the surface and at unsettling groups in
society, so that they were not ordinary crimes but crimes against society, Du
said.

They were vicious and difficult to prove, said Yan Yuxing, former president of
Urumqi Municipal Intermediate People's Court.

Yan said they aimed to unsettle the city's atmosphere. Yan said the crimes could
be punished with death.

The regional and municipal government was tackling the crisis. The government
had posted guards in public areas like buses, schools and hospitals. The health
department was treating victims. No death nor any case which needs anti-virus
drugs had been reported, said an official with the regional centre of disease
control and prevention.

Tens of thousands of people took to the streets of Urumqi to protest and demand
security guarantees last week. Five people died and at least 14 people were
treated in hospital with injuries during the protests.

By Thursday, hospitals had dealt with 531 victims of syringe stabbings, 106 of
whom showed obvious signs of needle attacks. Police have caught 45 suspects, of
whom 12 are in police custody.

Source: Xinhua news agency, Beijing, in English 1605 gmt 8 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Counter terrorism spending attacked

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 178 words


MILLIONS of pounds of taxpayers' money meant for tackling violent extremism is
being spent without proper oversight, critics warned today.

More than pounds 12m has been given to councils to distribute as part of the
"Prevent" strand of the Government's counter-terrorism strategy.

But the Taxpayers' Alliance said there was "insufficient monitoring" of how the
cash was spent.

The campaign group used the Freedom of Information Act to obtain detailed
accounts from local authorities of how they used the money.

They found cash was handed to karate, judo and boxing clubs and to a table
tennis club to buy equipment.

Other recipients included a Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Network and a
"safe garden" project.

TaxPayers' Alliance Research Director Matthew Sinclair said: "Giving councils
millions of pounds to dole out to hundreds of community groups clearly creates a
massive risk that money will be wasted."

"A spokesman for the Department for Communities and Local Government said
councils should make "robust" checks on how money is being spent.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday

GCHQ foiled terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 692 words


Stephen Hackwell

GCHQ helped foil a terrorist attack "bigger than September 11".

The role of the spy base emerged yesterday as three Islamic extremists were
convicted of a suicide bomb plot to blow up transatlantic airliners in a bid to
kill thousands.

The al Qaida-inspired terror cell planned to detonate home-made liquid bombs on
board flights bound for major north American cities.

Evidence from the trial revealed the major role that  staff at the Doughnut
played in averting the atrocity in the largest ever counter-terrorism operation
in the UK.

A report from the Intelligence and Security Committee, originally written in
2007, disclosed the Benhall-based listening post "temporarily diverted
significant resources to support the operation" to bring down the terrorist
cell.

The spy centre is believed to have focused its efforts on intercepting emails
and phone calls between the plot's masterminds in Pakistan and their foot
soldiers in Britain.

A GCHQ spokeswoman said the operation was part of its regular duties in
combating terrorism.

She said: "Counter terrorism is one of GCHQ's key priorities and we work closely
with the security services to provide the support they need.

"The committee's report acknowledges the effort we put into this particular
investigation.

"There will always be speculation about exactly what we did and how we did it,
but for us to go into details would damage the very intelligence techniques and
sources which help us to counter the continuing threat posed by terrorism."

The three guilty men  -  Abdulla Ahmed Ali, Assad Sarwar and Tanvir Hussain -
will be sentenced on Monday.

Three other men were found not guilty of the same charge and the Crown
Prosecution Service will now decide whether to hold another trial.

The Crown had alleged the British cell planned to assemble liquid bombs on
planes and blow up at least seven airliners heading to North America.

The court heard the group plotted to smuggle the components of the bombs on to
the planes in soft drink bottles and then build the devices on-  board, meaning
they would have been undetectable by airport security.

The plot was disrupted in August 2006 when the men were arrested following a
global operation by British and US intelligence services.

The sudden discovery and subsequent revelations about the nature of the bombs
led to huge disruption in airports.

The restrictions imposed on the liquids that  travellers can take in their hand
luggage are still in force today.

Ringleader Ali singled out seven flights to San Francisco, Toronto, Montreal,
Washington, New York and Chicago that departed within two-and-a-half hours of
each other.

Authorities on both sides of the Atlantic would have been  left powerless to
stop the destruction once the first bomb exploded.

Police said the plot was drawn up in Pakistan with detailed instructions passed
to Ali during frequent trips to its lawless border with Afghanistan.

They believe a mystery al Qaida bombmaker was responsible for the ingenious
liquid bomb design, concealed within 500ml Oasis or Lucozade bottles.

Surveillance teams watched Ali on his return to Britain as he assembled his
terror cell, gathered materials and identified targets.

Undercover officers looked on as the unemployed former   shop worker used cash
to purchase   a £138,000 second-floor flat in Forest Road, Waltham-  stow.

They planted a secret bug that revealed it had been converted into a bomb
factory where Ali met others to construct the bombs.

The flat was also used as a location for Ali and others to record suicide videos
threatening further attacks against the West.

In his video, Ali warned the British public to expect "floods of martyr
operations" that would leave body parts scattered in the streets.

Ali was watched as he used public phone boxes, mobile phones and anonymous email
accounts to keep in touch with mystery terrorist controllers in Pakistan.

On his arrest, he was found to be carrying an elaborate and damning blueprint
for the plot scrawled in a battered pocket diary.

Airport security arrangements and details of flights, including the seven
highlighted services, were also discovered on a computer memory stick.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 32


                      Copyright 2009 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           September 8, 2009 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

MEN HIT WITH GOLF CLUB IN TERROR ATTACK;
32-year-old needed 20 metal staples in serious head wound

BYLINE: BRYAN BROUGH

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 435 words


TWO men were battered on the head with a golf club when they got caught up in a
frightening street fight with a gang of yobs.

One of the victims, a 32-year-old, was hammered so hard doctors had to insert
more than 20 metal staples to hold a deep wound together.

His 44-year-old friend also suffered a gash to the head, which needed three or
four stitches.

One source told the Paisley Daily Express: "The fight was horrific and I feared
someone was going to end up dead. One of the men lost a lot of blood."

The terrifying beating happened in the early hours of Saturday morning at a
tenement close in Waverley Road, Foxbar, Paisley.

Yesterday sources said both victims had just left a flat in that street when a
row erupted involving the pair and a gang of neds in their mid to late teens.

Out of the blue one of the youths produced a golf club and aimed at both men.
The 32-year-old was the first to be hit - he was clubbed on the head and
collapsed semi-conscious to the ground.

During the melee the second man was also hit - and shocked neighbours who called
the cops after hearing the disturbance said officers were in the scene within
minutes.

Some of the teenagers are believed to have made their getaway in a silver car,
which police are trying to trace.

Officers were so concerned about the condition of the 32-year-old they tried to
stop the flow of blood from his head wound while waiting for paramedics to
arrive.

Both injured men, who live in the Paisley area, were rushed by ambulance to the
town's Royal Alexandra Hospital for urgent treatment.

A source said: "The younger man had a nasty wound on his head. That was caused
by one gang member wielding a golf club. The victim was bleeding badly.

"The other man's injury was not quite so bad. I think he was battered with a
metal club too. Some people came out of their homes to help the injured men."

Last night, as police stepped up the probe, they continued inquiries in the
Waverley Road area.

The brutal attack was initially treated as an attempted murder, but officers are
now describing it as a serious assault.

A team of cops are carrying out door-to-door checks and looking at CCTV footage
in the hope that members of the gang have been caught on film.

Detective Sergeant Owen Gallagher, of Paisley police, said: "I would appeal to
anyone who may have witnessed a disturbance in the Waverley Road area around 1am
on Saturday to contact us.

"Anyone who can help identify the individuals involved is urged to come forward
and provide us with information. Ring Paisley CID on 0141 532 5900 or
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2009 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         The Evening Standard (London)

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday

GIRL'S MOMENT OF TERROR AS SEX ATTACKER STRIKES

LENGTH: 445 words


JUSTIN DAVENPORT CRIME CORRESPONDENT

THIS is the terrifying moment when a teenager is dragged off the street by a
would-be rapist.

The 18-year-old woman had been out with friends near King's Cross when she was
grabbed by the man and dragged along the street "like an animal".

The victim was pulled into a side street and forced to the floor when a
passer-by heard her screams and came to her aid. Her attacker Samson Bello, 23,
admitted two other sex attacks on women committed within hours of this one.

He was sentenced yesterday at Southwark crown court and received a detention
order under the mental health act to be detained indefinitely.

In total he pleaded guilty to four charges, three attempted rapes and one count
of kidnapping with intent to commit a sexual offence. The images of the attack
were released today as it emerged that murder squad detectives tracked Bello to
his home using CCTV.

They were able to pick up his attacks on cameras located in the street and then
follow him on CCTV as he caught two buses home.

Analysis of the cameras on a 149 night route showed Bello, a Nigerian national,
alight at a stop near Beatty Road in Hackney.

Detectives flooded the area with CCTV images of the suspect in a distinctive
white jacket asking residents if they recognised the man. As they were doing so
Bello walked out of his basement flat and was stopped by two officers. He
admitted that the image was him.

Bello, who has a history of mental illness, launched his first attack on a
16-year-old girl in Marylebone High Street at 3.30am on 29 March.

The victim said she was grabbed by Bello who told her: "Come with me. If you
scream then I'll hurt you." She was pulled into an alley and assaulted before a
passer-by intervened. Two days later Bello went on the rampage attacking three
women in three hours. A 24-year-old woman was attacked in the Prince of Wales
Passage off Hampstead Road at 12.30am. The Spanish woman fought back and the
attack was interrupted by a passer-by.

At 2.45am the 18-year-old was attacked as she walked along Pentonville Road. At
one point she smashed a bottle of beer she was carrying and attempted to slash
Bello but he was too strong for her.

Twenty minutes later a 20-year-old woman was attacked opposite the British
Library. In this case she managed to struggle free and run off.

Police say officers watched hundreds of hours of CCTV to piece together Bello's
movements on the night.

Bello was first spotted on film as the suspect in the case on 4 April and
arrested five days later. Detective Chief Inspector Peter Lansdown said: "The
volume of CCTV cameras in central London was a significant factor in solving
these offences quickly."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright  2009    Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  London Lite

                          September 9, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Face the facts of terrorism;
Do you fear more fanatic attacks?

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 314 words


WE HAVE to face facts, that terror is now a feature of our society and will be
for years to come. Well done to the police and security services for the
successful case against Tanvir Hussain and his two co-conspirators, found guilty
on Monday of plotting to blow planes flying from London to America out of the
sky. Yet I fear this success is only a measure of greater challenges to come.

Larry, Stanmore FANATICS are making the UK a more scary place. One never knows
when one of these psychos will get through and manage to murder innocent
civilians for their cause. We can't afford a soft approach to terrorism.

Rupert, London FRIGHTENING how unintelligent the plotters seemed: even more
frightening that there may be more idiots around.

Mandy, London UNLESS we take the threat seriously there will be further
atrocities. On a show yesterday the interviewer asked if it was worth spending
£30m to stop the bomb plot. I shouted at the radio, "It's worth two of Jonathan
Ross to stop mass murder." Wake up, guys.

Bryan, Tower Bridge

THIS trial is the final confirmation that we should give all powers possible to
the security services. It only takes one plan to escape the net and we will be
left with another atrocity and many innocents dead.

Cally, Walthamstow I'M NOT scared because they all seem to be utterly inept
terrorists. This plot, like the Glasgow airport attackers and Richard Reid, who
failed in his attempt to bring down an airplane with a bomb in his shoe in 2001,
demonstrated truly staggering ineptitude.

? Don't miss Log on to: Barton W, London co.uk HOW can we not be scared when we
hear of the links between Al Qaeda fanatics in Pakistan and Afghanistan and
extremists based here. To my mind it shows that we must keep our troops there,
no matter how unpopular it gets.

Andy, Islington

Forget your Lite ? Don't miss a single edition! Log on to:
e-edition.thelondonlite.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fanatic: bomb plotter Tanvir Hussain's martyr video

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LOL


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS



             PA Regional Newswire for English Regions: EAST ANGLIA

                    September 9, 2009 Wednesday 4:37 PM BST

DETECTIVE TELLS COURT OF `TERROR` AT FIRE ATTACK ON HOME

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 203 words


A detective told a court about the terrifying ordeal suffered by his family when
their home in Essex was firebombed.

Detective Sergeant Martin Brough was targeted after he was part of a team
raiding addresses during a drugs operation, the Old Bailey heard.

He and his wife Amanda were feeding their newborn baby when two petrol bombs and
concrete slabs were thrown at the front of their Essex home.

Mrs Brough fled with the baby while Det Sgt Brough rescued their young son in
January 2006.

The attack damaged their front door but double glazing prevented further damage.

Det Sgt Brough told the court: ``I was horrified that night, absolutely
terrified ... that someone should firebomb my home ... I was so frightened.''

He said he was not aware of anyone with a grudge against him at the time but now
spent time looking over his shoulder.

The prosecution alleges local car trader Wayne Taylor ordered petrol bomb
attacks on the officer and the home of Detective Inspector Michael Ornellas
after his home and business was raided.

Taylor, 42, of Merrilees Crescent, Clacton, denies two charges of attempting to
murder the Essex detectives.

He also denies the two offences of arson at their homes and a third unconnected
arson. end

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                    September 9, 2009 Wednesday 3:47 PM BST

DETECTIVE TELLS COURT OF `TERROR` AT FIRE ATTACK ON HOME

BYLINE: Shenai Raif, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 395 words


A detective told a court today about the terrifying ordeal suffered by his
family when their home was firebombed.

Detective Sergeant Martin Brough was targeted after he was part of team raiding
addresses during a drugs operation, the Old Bailey heard.

He and his wife Amanda were feeding their newborn baby when two petrol bombs and
concrete slabs were thrown at the front of their Essex home.

Mrs Brough fled with the baby while Det Sgt Brough rescued their young son in
January 2006.

The attack damaged their front door but double glazing prevented further damage.

Det Sgt Brough told the court: ``I was horrified that night, absolutely
terrified ... that someone should firebomb my home ... I was so frightened.''

He said he was not aware of anyone with a grudge against him at the time but now
spent time looking over his shoulder.

The prosecution alleges local car trader Wayne Taylor ordered petrol bomb
attacks on the officer and the home of Detective Inspector Michael Ornellas
after his home and business was raided.

Taylor, 42, of Merrilees Crescent, Clacton, denies two charges of attempting to
murder the Essex detectives.

He also denies the two offences of arson at their homes and a third unconnected
arson.

Fires were started within minutes of each other but the occupants escaped and
damage was confined.

Taylor was said to have been angered by the raids four days before Christmas -
particularly as presents under a tree had been opened.

Det Sgt Brough said he came into Clacton police station a few weeks later asking
for the return of his credit cards.

``He indicated he had a bad Christmas because police had seized his credit
cards,'' said the officer.

Det Sgt Brough's name had been on a document left by police after the raid and
he had also been the media spokesman for the operation.

Mr Ornellas had been in charge of the series of raids and had applied for the
search warrant.

He told the court: ``I was woken by an enormous crashing sound. I could see the
bottom of the stairs were alight.

``There was no other way out. I had real concerns for my family's safety.''

Mr Ornellas managed to put the blaze out with the help of his sons and the
family escaped to safety.

The court has been told that one of two men jailed in 2007 for the arson attacks
would be giving evidence against Taylor in an attempt to have his sentence
reduced.

The trial was adjourned to tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                          September 10, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Bollards are no barrier to terrorist attack;
YOUR VIEW

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 941 words


IS there any evidence that the Subway is at risk from terrorist ram raiders ?

Surely any terrorist with just half a brain would see the security lapses in our
Subway system a mile off.

People Power, Glasgow

Too little, too late

ANOTHER waste of money. Let's face it, 10 years ago the idea that you could
hijack a plane and smash it into the side of a skyscraper would have sounded
positively absurd. As was ramming a car full of gas cylinders into an airport
building.

My point is that terrorists will always find new and ingenious ways to catch us
out. London isn't fitting these bollards outside every Tube station is it, and
you'd think it would be a lot more vulnerable.

RapidAssistant, Glasgow

What a waste of money

I AM a regular Subway user and I have to say that the person(s) on the
management team of the SPT responsible for ordering and installing these
bollards are nothing short of inept - an embarrassment to Glasgow and culpable
wasters of farepayers' and taxpayers' money.

NewGoldDream, Glasgow

Escalator navigator

IT would take quite a terror group to drive a car down the escalators.

Subway User, Hillhead

Priorities are all wrong

THE Glasgow Airport attack happened in June 2007.

It takes until October 2008 for the SPT to approve this terrorist counter
measure.

Then it's another 11 months to actually get something done - by which time the
threat is reduced.

That sums up the SPT!

Meanwhile the number of passengers using the Subway drops - GBP271,000 would
have paid for a six-month extended hours trial period.

Bill Forbes, Cambuslang

Closed to everyone

THE priority should be extending the Subway's opening hours.

Sweenato, Bishopbriggs

It's an obstacle course

GETTING off at Kinning Park I walked into one of these new bollards. They are
yet another annoying piece of street furniture that will cause injury to the
visually impaired.

PepsiBarker, Glasgow

Call centre staff got a raw deal

COMMENT OF THE DAY

IT was always a cert that these call centres would close as soon as things got
tight or it got cheaper to do it abroad (250 jobs to go as RBS axes two city
call centres, September 9).

Redeployed? To Edinburgh? On call centre wages?

That's just PR fluff from the management to make it look like they aren't really
binning 250 people.

It won't even be worth going to Greenock on those wages.

BHGlasgow

Criticism isn't bullying

I'VE worked in both the public and private sector and have had to put up with
rude people, both staff and customers, but I never bleated about bullying.

Don't get me wrong, I know there are bullies in every place of work, but I don't
see it as being at the levels stated in this article (40per cent of council
workers suffer bullying attacks, September 8).

It seems that we pander to people who are over sensitive to any criticism of
their failing to carry out work correctly and in turn they use the catch all of
bullying to defl ect attention from their own failings.

Maxi Glasgow

Floodlight Clyde crane

IF they want to floodlight an iconic Glasgow landmark, then why not choose the
Finnieston Crane (Towers to be bathed in light, September 8)?

It looks a lot better than a couple of concrete water towers in the middle of a
housing scheme.

Name and address supplied

We've lots to offer

WHAT a great idea the campaign is to attract tourists to Renfrewshire (Campaign
aims to boost tourism revenue by GBP3m, September 8) - it will create jobs and
opportunities.

Renfrewshire has a great deal to offer visitors and this campaign will bring in
lots of new tourists to the area.

Well done to those who have the vision and energy to make it happen.

Johnjo Glasgow

Racing back for run

THE Great Scottish Run was a great day out.

I was the one doing the 10K in my desert combats, and boots. I walked round in
one hour and 39 mins, so a job well done.

My brother did the half marathon in just over two hours, well done. We'll be
back next year.

Mbam38 Preston

Bumpy road ahead

I AM all for campaigns to reduce road fatalities (Motorists urged to Go Safe,
September 9). All I ask is that if they decide to add more speed bumps that they
ensure drivers can pass over them at the posted speed limit without damaging
their vehicles - unlike the poorly fi tted bumps installed in Pollok, Barrhead
and Paisley.

Cannyscot Glasgow

Diageo has no loyalty

I'M disgusted that Diageo has ignored the plan from the Scottish Government and
decided to go ahead with its planned cut jobs.

I wonder if the company ever had any intention of considering the proposals that
were made to bosses?

Loyalty from staff and customers obviously means nothing to Diageo.

Name and address supplied

Cut overseas card fees

I FOR one am hugely relieved overdraft fees are being cut by RBS (Overdraft fees
cut welcomed, September 8).

It's about time and I hope other banks follow suit.

I would also like other firms to take action to cut the high fees customers face
when using their credit or debit cards abroad. It's just ridiculous the amount
you have to pay in extra charges.

LKMGlasgow

Q Should the Scottish Government sever all links and contracts with Diageo in
the wake of the firm's confi rmation of 900 job losses?

Vote yes or no at www.eveningtimes.co.uk

YESTERDAY'S VOTE: 36per cent said there were enough measures to keep pedestrians
safe.

THEY SAID IT. . .

I love the predictability of some of the reaction. You'd think they might know
better by now Chris Evans on his critics

Hopefully this will throw a wrench in the system and people will make music that
sounds good Mercury prize winner Speech Debelle

I do love a good burger and fries. French fries are my favourite. If I could,
I'd eat them at every meal Michelle Obama who forgoes fries for fitness

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Readers had plenty to say on anti-terror bollards being put up at the
entrance to Buchanan Street Subway station in Glasgow city centre as part of a
security review Reader Audrey Murray, from Gourock, sent in this scenic shot
taken last month in Strathyre, near Callander. Do you have a picture you would
like to share with readers? E-mail your images to yourpics@eveningtimes.co.uk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                      Copyright 2009 Newsquest Media Group
                              All Rights Reserved

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Sevenoaks Chronicle

                               September 10, 2009

Knife attack terror stuns quiet village

BYLINE: Stuart Woledge stuart.woledge@courier.co.uk

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 500 words


A Man was knifed after a late-night horror attack at a village pub.

Richard Wellman, known as Rick, needed hospital treatment for a stab wound
through one of his arms following the row with two men.

The assault is said to have taken place outside The Crown pub in Otford in the
early hours of Saturday morning.

It followed what police have described as a "disturbance" in the beer garden.

An eyewitness and friend of Mr Wellman, whom the Chronicle agreed not to name
for fear of reprisals against him, had been in the pub at the time.

He said: "They followed Rick out into the back garden and beat him up.

"One lad with dark hair then ran through the pub and said, 'We've done him and
when he comes out we're going to stab him.'"

Police have denied arresting the man believed to have been responsible for
stabbing Mr Wellman, despite a culprit being named locally.

At least one other man is said to have been involved in the incident.

The landlord of The Crown, Mark Fenge, said a row had broken out between Mr
Wellman and two other men.

Mr Fenge said he told the pair to leave, but allowed Mr Wellman to stay inside
until the matter had blown over.

But they waited for him.

"I tried to make the other people go home, but they wouldn't go home," said Mr
Fenge.

"The other guy tried to go outside with a pool cue. I restrained him and took it
from him.

"In the end they wanted to get at each other in the street.

"If people want to get at each other then people will."

He added: "It's shocking. We've been here two-and-a-half years and there's never
been any trouble."

Mr Wellman lives with his mother, Olive, in the village.

Speaking on Monday, she said she had not seen her son since the incident.

At the time her son was recovering in Kent and Sussex Hospital in Tunbridge
Wells.

He has now discharged himself.

"I know he's been stabbed in the arm," said Mrs Wellman.

"But I don't know what happened. Sometimes he goes out and has a drink with
friends and doesn't come back that night.

"He didn't come back, but I never took any notice.

"I don't know what the incident was.

"Maybe he was just in the wrong place at the wrong time.

"He's very ordinary. He's not a child - he's a young man.

"I'm concerned for his health, but I'm not involved in this issue."

In a police statement, Chief Insp David Cooper confirmed: "A 36-year-old man was
involved in a disturbance with another man while in the pub garden.

"When the men left the pub later he was assaulted by at least two men, one of
whom, he believes, was involved in the earlier incident in the pub garden.

"As a result of the assault the man received a wound to his arm that is thought
to have been caused by a sharp instrument like a knife."

A police investigation into the crime is currently underway.

Anyone with information should call 01732 379217, quoting reference 12923.

Alternatively,  people with information can contact Kent Crimestoppers,
anonymously, on 0800 555111.

Information about the incident  can also be emailed at any time  to
appeals.westkent@kent.pnn police.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 103


                       Copyright 2009 Sevenoaks Chronicle
                              All Rights Reserved

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 11, 2009 Friday

Lebanese army uncovers "terror cell" plotting attacks on UNIFIL

LENGTH: 466 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Lebanese newspaper The Daily Star
website on 11 September

["Army Busts Terror Cell Plotting Attacks on Unifil Report" _ The Daily Star
Headline]

Friday, September 11, 2009 BEIRUT: The Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) have
unearthed a terror cell with links to a fundamentalist group who were plotting
attacks against UN peacekeeping force UNIFIL, Al-Akhbar newspaper reported on
Thursday [10 September].

Lebanon's Army Intelligence began monitoring the cell following a tip-off it was
planning a string of attacks against UNIFIL and other targets in Lebanon,
according to the report. After a lengthy surveillance operation, Army
Intelligence uncovered a Palestinian cell tied to Fatah al-Islam, an Al-Qaeda
inspired Islamist group that fought a three-month battle with the LAF in 2007
from the Nahr al-Bared Palestinian refugee camp in northern Lebanon.

Intelligence officials reportedly arrested one of the cell's members after
receiving information he was hiding in a Palestinian camp in South Lebanon,
Al-Akhbar reported. Interrogations revealed the cell was monitoring UNIFIL
positions and bases south of the Litani River using "innovative" tracking
methods, the report added. Several members were tasked with observing the UN
force. The cell's non-Lebanese Arab members allegedly received help entering
Lebanon from a network of human traffickers and counterfeiters.

UNIFIL Commander Major General Claudio Graziano was immediately informed about
the cell's activities and requested all UNIFIL contingents take the necessary
precautions in light of the potential threat, Al-Akhbar said. The report added
that UNIFIL itself had provided the LAF with information about a possible attack
against it in south Lebanon. When asked about security measures, UNIFIL
Spokesperson Yasmina Bouziane told The Daily Star the matter was in the hands of
the Lebanese authorities, who have primary responsibility for law and order in
UNIFIL's areas of operations. "UNIFIL takes all threats seriously "(the force)
already has comprehensive security and protection measures in place and our
focus remains on our operations and the implementation of Resolution 1701," she
said, referring to the 2006 UN Security Council resolution that ended Israel's
34-day war on Lebanon, expanded UNIFIL's mandate, and called for the disarmament
of armed groups in Lebanon.

UNIFIL has been the target of previous attacks and attack attempts. In June
2007, six peacekeepers were killed and three others wounded when a roadside car
bomb targeted their convoy. Twelve men belonging to Fatah al-Islam were in July
sentenced to up to life in prison after being found guilty of carrying out the
attack, as well as others in northern Lebanon.

Source: The Daily Star website, Beirut, in English 11 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 11, 2009 Friday

Philippine police on high alert for anniversary of 11 Sep terror attacks in US

LENGTH: 294 words


Text of report in English by Philippine newspaper The Philippine Star website on
11 September

[Report by Mike Frialde: "PNP on high alert for 9/11 anniversary"]

MANILA, Philippines -Units of the Philippine National Police (PNP) nationwide
have been placed on high alert to thwart any possible terror attack to coincide
with the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks in the United States
by al-Qaeda terrorists.

"The lessons learned from 9/11, and also our own share of experience in some
local incidents, have taught us never to lower our guard against terrorism," PNP
chief Director General Jesus Verzosa said.

Meanwhile, PNP spokesman Senior Superintendent Leonardo Espina said police units
have been instructed to heighten vigilance against terrorism in the aftermath of
the recent bombing incident in Cotabato City.

"Although there has been no reported terrorist activity or sympathy actions by
local terrorist organizations and domestic threat groups, we want to be one step
ahead by initiating proactive security measures," Espina said.

Espina said anti-terrorist and anti-crime measures were put in place with
intensified police operations and patrols with the assistance of community
volunteers and force multipliers such as barangay (village) peacekeeping teams,
civilian volunteer organizations, and local government units.

He said private security guards were also mobilized to assist in the
anti-terrorist campaign in shopping malls, commercial centres, hotels, mass
transportation facilities, and other places of public convergence.

"Our three-tiered defence system against terrorism is in place with emphasis on
intelligence, target-hardening, and incident management," Espina said.

Source: The Philippine Star website, Manila, in English 11 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                           September 11, 2009 Friday

Victims of 9/11 attacks remembered;
People in Plymouth will today remember the lives of those lost during the
terrorist attacks of 9/11.

BYLINE: REBECCA THOMPSON Herald Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 148 words


The Lord Mayor and Lady Mayoress were due to lay a wreath at the foot of the
Mayflower Steps today in rememberance of those who died in the tragedy eight
years ago.

The terrorist attacks of 9/11 have had such an impact that many can still
remember exactly where we were at the time.

Eric Flato, star of Plymouth Raiders basketball team, remembers being woken up
by his mother in the early hours of the morning of September 11.

She urged him to watch the news with her at their home in California as reports
of the first plane crash flashed on the screen.

Eric described how he felt after witnessing the second plane collide with the
towers.

He said: "It felt surreal, like I was watching something out of a movie."

Eric will be saying a prayer for all those who lost their lives on that tragic
day and hopes people will remember what he describes as "a major point in
history for the whole world".

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 82


                         Copyright 2009 Evening Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Future News - Media Planner

                           September 11, 2009 Friday

U.S. continues National Emergency with respect to terrorist attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Highlight; International News

LENGTH: 61 words


U.S. extends National Emergency with respect to 9/11 terrorist attacks on the
World Trade Center, the Pentagon, & aboard United Airlines flight 93, & the
continuing threat of further attacks for another year. The emergency, declared
on 14 Sep 2001, incl the powers & authorities adopted to deal with that
emergency

Start date: 2009-09-14

End date: 2009-09-14

Event URL:

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2009 Precise
                              All Rights Reserved

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Kent Messenger

                               September 11, 2009

Children's view of terror attack on twin towers

LENGTH: 119 words


THE stark images of planes crashing into the World Trade Center in New York
exactly eight years ago today (Friday) made a deep impression on all who saw
them - children included.

Brother and sister Marty and Abbie Knight were both barely six at the time (they
are triplets with their sister Ntiarna).

They drew these pictures of the collapsing twin towers a few days afterwards for
their grandmother Rita Knight.

Mrs Knight, of Chapman Way, East Malling, came across the drawings again this
week when she was having a clear-out.

She said: "It quite choked me up. I remember being very upset by the whole thing
at the time and you wonder what on earth the kids made of it."

Marty and Abbie are now 14 and live in Offham.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Sutton Observer

                               September 11, 2009

Crews show how to tackle attack;
On Sunday, fire crews from Sutton, Erdington and further afield raced to the
Cincinnati plant in Woodlands Farm Road, Erdington. There they met colleagues
from the police and ambulance service to mount a major, multi-agency operation.
A full-scale terrorist attack had been simulated to test the readiness of more
than 100 emergency workers.

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 498 words


F Or the emergency services, you may think, it never rains but pours. And
sometimes, as on Sunday, there are even showers - quite the splash for a dry
run.

Last weekend, 25 walking wounded "victims" of a fictional terrorist attack were
led out of a disused Erdington building by local crews and ushered towards
specialist showering equipment which supposedly decontaminated their clothes and
bodies.

As dress rehearsals go in any line of business, be it show, sporting friendlies,
or mock exams, there cannot, surely, be nervier practices.

And if the name of Sunday's test scenario was anything to go by, it was not so
much "break a leg" as "break the lot" - "chemical, biological, radiological or
nuclear incident" makes The Scottish Play seem like child's play.

But it is getting used to such a large-scale operation that means emergency
services will be prepared should the unthinkable happen.

"The dry runs give us the assurance that we can turn up, use the equipment, and
do the business, so that when we come together, we have confidence and what we
face is not such a shock," said Mac McGregor, West Midlands Fire Service area
commander.

"The other thing is reassuring the public that by working together, we can
resolve something like this.

"It won't be so overwhelming if we're ever tested this way."

No fear, then. But surely, even on paper, the concept can be alarming. The irony
of the unthinkable is that it doesn't half make you think.

All Mac will say of the scenes faced by the crews training on Sunday is: "It was
an impressive sight; all that kit together."

The pre-conceived scenario was that a chemical had been released in a building
occupied by the public and there would be no fatalities. All of the 25 occupants
were able to make their way out of the site, but would need on-the-spot
decontamination - not quite wash 'n' go; more of a sprinkler system for people.

A breakdown of the emergency services personnel taking part is relatively
straightforward. In total, 150 were there, of which 100 were firefighters. The
remainder was made up of police support units and ambulance workers operating in
specialist crews dubbed HART - Hazard Area Response Teams.

Twenty fire engines, 10 specialist appliances and five HART vehicles round out
the numbers, with detection and monitoring equipment brought in to identify any
harmful substances that the showers wash away.

But who takes the part of the 25 walking wounded? "Tonight Matthew, I'm going to
be... at death's door."

Volunteering colleagues do the work, Mac said. But, everyone being a critic, can
they act?

"Oh yes," Mac said. "They're all made up, they affect the symptoms and go
through the motions as if they'd actually been exposed to a chemical."

The drama comes to an end and with crews' response and procedures tested, their
performance is gauged. How did they do?

"It went really well," Mac said, "it was a big success." As befits crews dealing
weekly with dilapidated buildings, you could say they brought the house down.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 56


                    Copyright 2009 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                           September 11, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Widow's book for the son born after his father died in terrorattack ;
attack

BYLINE: Mike Jones

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 878 words


IT IS exactly eight years to the day since Elizabeth Turner's world was torn
apart.

On September 11, 2001, while seven months pregnant with her son William, she sat
in horror watching the 9/11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre on the TV
monitors at Channel 4, where she worked as a senior HR manager.

Her husband, Simon, a financial publisher, was at a meeting in a restaurant on
the 106th floor of the North Tower when the plane crashed into it.

He didn't make a last phone call to her - she believes he knew he was going to
die and didn't want to cause her further trauma with goodbyes.

"I did reflect on that, but not for long, because even if he thought he was
going to get out, he would always put me and William first. Whatever his thought
process was, he thought it would be better not phoning, because he loved us."

She was left in an abyss of grief, giving birth two months later at London's
Portland Hospital in the presence of a team of hospital staff and a female
friend.

Simon's body was never recovered and Elizabeth's abiding fear for years
afterwards was that he was one of the victims who jumped. She forced herself to
look at pictures in the press of the jumpers, but mercifully never saw him. "If
your choice is to jump out of a building from that far up, if that's a better
choice than what's going on in the building, that must be your hell on earth,"
she says. "Nobody would ever make that choice unless that was their better
choice. It just haunted me.

"I've found a peace with it in that I feel, with Simon's death, things happen
for a reason."

It has taken years of recovery, counselling and alternative therapy including
Reiki healing, for Elizabeth, now 41, to find a positive way forward and she no
longer feels the dark anticipation of each anniversary of September 11. "The
first anniversary was incredibly intense. I went to New York with William, but
even at that early stage I felt I didn't want to make it an annual thing. I
didn't want to keep coming back. I didn't want to put pressure on myself to do
something each year."

These days, she makes sure that on poignant days - anniversaries, birthdays,
Christmas - she is with family or friends.

"Birthdays and anniversaries are never the days when it gets to me. It's William
doing something - when he's doing sports day or when he went to Beaver camp for
the first time.

"It's like having a grief for Simon and William and the experiences they've not
had."

To assuage any awkward conversations, Elizabeth e-mailed all the mothers in
William's class to let them know of her situation.

"I felt I had a responsibility to talk to the mums about this. Each year when
the anniversary comes round, William might ask questions or talk about it or
talk to other children about it."

He now knows that his father died before he was born and some details of the
circumstances, although Elizabeth has been careful to filter through the
information only when he asks specific questions.

She has now written The Blue Skies of Autumn to give William a record later on
of what happened. It's a heartfelt story which could be another misery memoir
but is actually one of hope and optimism, healing and recovery. She does still
cry for Simon, but the tears aren't always filled with grief.

"It's a mixture of love and sadness and missing him and a future that we'd
arranged and moving to a point where you're able to enjoy the memories that you
have."

She cleared out many of his clothes after he died, but kept items which reminded
her of him and would give William further insight into his father, including a
pair of ripped shorts which he used for decorating, his old gardening shoes and
his office diaries.

Today, she and William live in north London and she has a new partner, Dave, a
man she met again after many years at the launch of her life coaching company U
Life on September 11 last year, helping others in many areas including grief,
redundancy, health problems and divorce.

Has she forgiven the terrorists who killed her husband? "You have to a find
peace with it. To say I forgive them is quite patronising. My experience taught
me that nobody should have to go through an experience of grief that is
traumatic in its form.

"It doesn't matter whether it's me or it's a soldier's wife or a girl in Iraq. I
don't think it matters who you are or what your circumstances are or your
position in the world.

"I don't have an anger towards it. I see the whole thing as a comment on the
world at large. It's not right to kill people. You look back thousands of years
and humans are just not learning how to resolve conflict and live within a
peaceful world."

She is living now what she calls her "ultimate life" - there's no room for
revenge.

"I could do two things with William. I could say, 'These people killed your
daddy and we don't like them' and create animosity, anger and hate, or I could
say, 'That did happen and it isn't right to do that. However, doing it back is
definitely not the right way to deal with it'.

"I never want William's life to be taken over by the events. I want his life to
be a normal life - and I can hear Simon saying that too." The Blue Skies Of
Autumn by Elizabeth Turner is published by Simon & Schuster, priced pounds 9.99

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  HEALING: Elizabeth Turner with her son William COUPLE: Elizabeth with
her husband Simon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                          September 12, 2009 Saturday

Jail for terror attack on ex-girlfriends home

BYLINE: julian.makey@cambridge-news.co.uk

LENGTH: 320 words


A MAN who threw barbecue-lighting fluid over his ex-girlfriends house and
shouted burn bitch burn has been locked up for two-and-a-half years.People in
the house during the attack in the early hours of the morning were left
terrified, Peterborough Crown Court was told.William Bowie, 30, had earlier been
moved on from the house in Bedford Street, St Neots, by police who had been
called by his ex-girlfriend, but returned in an attempt to get into the building
and then threw the bottle containing the fluid, which shattered when it hit the
house.Bowie, of Maskell Drive, Bedford, admitted threatening to damage
property.Judge Sean Enright told him: What you did was on impulse but you knew
what you were throwing and that it would break on impact as it did.The court
heard that Bowie had 11 previous convictions for 19 offences, including violence
and causing death by dangerous driving, and there had been previous incidents at
the ex-girlfriends house and the home of another woman.Nicola Devas,
prosecuting, said the householder had a relationship with Bowie, but it ended
because of his violence after drinking.She said that Bowie turned up at the
womans house shortly after midnight on June 2 and began banging on the doors and
windows. He was later seen sitting in a car on the drive. Mrs Devas said the
police were called to the house and Bowie was told to leave.But he returned at
2am and was seen pouring a fluid over the door.

He then lit a cigarette, which he put where the fluid had been poured.She could
smell what appeared to be barbecue fluid which she had in the garage at the
time, Mrs Devas said.She told the court that Bowie was shouting: I am going to
burn it down, and burn bitch burn.Mrs Devas said the woman, who was in the house
with her young child, sister and a man, had been terrified by the incident.David
Lee, defending, said Bowie was now anxious to get help in dealing with his
alcohol abuse.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2009 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Record

                          September 12, 2009, Saturday

PANIC ON POTOMAC AS USA REMEMBERS 9/11;
EXERCISE ON RIVER SPARKS TERROR ATTACK FEAR

BYLINE: Tom Pettifor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 450 words


THE United States Coast Guard sparked a terror panic in the centre of Washington
yesterday - on the anniversary of the 9/11 attacks.

FBI agents rushed to the Potomac amid claims Coast Guard craft had fired shots
at a suspect vessel moments after president Barack Obama's motorcade crossed a
nearby bridge.

He was heading from the White House to place a wreath at the Pentagon, where 184
people died eight years ago.

News channels covering the remembrance services reported the shooting. Locals
feared the capital was under attack - and Reagan National Airport was closed for
22 minutes as panic spread.

The Coast Guard claimed the incident was just a training exercise and no shots
had been fired.

Spokesman John Edwards said CNN had picked up on a radio transmission during the
exercise. In it the craft had been given simulated instructions to let off 10
rounds.

Ominous

But the Coast Guard had not even let the FBI know about the training mission.

Lieutenant Mike Libby of the US Park Police, who was by the river near the 14th
Street Bridge, said: "They're in a training exercise and we didn't know it.

"Somebody reported that they had shot at somebody. That was part of the
exercise."

A group representing military families expressed outrage.

Military Families United said in a statement: "September 11 is a day to remember
the loss of 2973 innocent victims in New York, Pennsylvania and the Pentagon;
not a day to create an unnecessary panic near a terrorist target."

The incident cast an ominous shadow over the day's remembrance services.

Obama and first lady Michelle began the day with a moment of silence in pouring
rain on the south lawn of the White House at 8.46am - the moment the first of
two jets hit New York's World Trade Centre in 2001.

Then the Obamas headed southwest across the Potomac to the Pentagon, which
terrorists had flown a third jet into eight years ago.

In a speech at the memorial to the victims, Obama vowed America would "never
falter" in the pursuit of al-Qaeda.

He said: "Let us renew our resolve against those who perpetrated this barbaric
act and who plot against us still. In defence of our nation, we will never
waver.

"Let us remember how we came together as one nation, as one people, as
Americans, united not only in our grief, but in our resolve to stand with one
another, to stand up for the country we all love."

Obama has distanced himself from predecessor George Bush's anti-terror policies.

Condolences

But his words recalled Bush's speech to Congress in the aftermath of the
attacks.

Bush yesterday issued a statement expressing his condolences to the victims and
their families, and urged Americans to "renew our determination to prevent evil
from returning to our shores".

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SOMBRE: Obama pauses for thought and the emotion bubbles over, right
TERRIFYING REMINDER: Coast Guard boats during the exercise on the Potomac that
sent a ripple of fear through Washington as it remembered the 9/11 attacks

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2009 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       Evening Chronicle (Newcastle, UK)

                          September 12, 2009 Saturday

Armed Attack Terror

BYLINE: Sophie Doughty

SECTION: A; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 190 words


ARMED burglars have threatened a couple in their home.

Police are appealing for help to catch the raiders, following the aggravated
burglary, in Wallsend.

The incident happened at around 9.55pm, on Wednesday.

The couple were in their house, on Archer Street, when two men smashed their way
in.

Armed with a knife they threatened the couple, and demanded they hand over cash.

But they then fled empty handed.

The couple were not hurt, but they were left shocked by their ordeal.

Police say they believe the burglary was an isolated incident.

But they are now appealing for help to catch the thugs.

And patrols have bee stepped up in the area.

DC Nick Lawrance, of North Tyneside CID, said: "House-to-house enquiries have
been carried out and detectives and Wallsend Neighbourhood Policing Team
officers are investigating this incident.

"This does appear to be an isolated incident  and officers have increased
patrols in the area to reassure the community."

The burglars are both believed to be aged in their early 20s and were dressed in
dark clothing at the time.

Anyone with any information is asked to call DC Lawrence on  03456 043 043 ext
63153.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                          September 12, 2009 Saturday

Town stages park tribute to victims of 9/11 attacks;
Victims of the September 11 New York terrorist attacks were remembered at a
service in an East Devon town.

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 146 words


Members of the fire, ambulance and police service attended, as did a number of
residents and some pupils representing Exmouth Community College.

The 15-minute remembrance service was held in Exmouth's Phear Park and was
organised by Lionel Howell, from the 531st Tribute Fund, to mark the eighth
anniversary of the tragedy.

Two sisters laid a wreath at the service in memory of a cousin they lost, as did
children from Exmouth Community College.

Father Tony Oswin took the service and said a prayer in memory of the victims of
the attacks and the loved ones who were left behind.

After the service, at 1.46pm, the time in the UK when the first plane was flown
into the north tower of the World Trade Center in  New York, a fire engine
sounded its siren to mark the start of two minutes' silence.

For more on the service and more pictures, see Wednesday's This Is Exmouth
supplement.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 14, 2009 Monday

Russian website questions reports of foiled terrorist attacks in Moscow

LENGTH: 813 words


Text of report by Russian political commentary website Politkom.ru on 9
September

[Commentary by Olga Mefodyeva: "They Saved Moscow from Exploding Track Shoes"]

The news media reported that a terrorist suicide bomber, who was supposed to
have blown himself up during the City Day celebrations, was taken into custody
in Moscow at the end of last week. Today some publications learned the details
of the arrest and the exact number of terrorist acts that had been planned for
Moscow. Fortunately, both terrorist acts were averted through the efforts of the
police in the capital and law enforcement agencies in the Caucasus. The arrests
of the suicide bombers led to invaluable information about the changing tactics
of the terrorists: They are now being trained by the Taleban in Afghanistan and
live in the forest for a year, during which they are "stuffed" full of
psychotropic drugs, and they now carry explosives in their track shoes as well
as in the so-called "martyrs' belts." In line with this far-fetched story, they
must also have a magic wand....

On Monday one of the news agencies reported that a terrorist suicide bomber
named Islam Batayev, who was supposed to have committed a terrorist act during
the City Day festivities, had been arrested in Moscow last Friday. When Batayev
was interrogated, he divulged the details of the mission he had been assigned by
the leaders of the militant rebel gangs in the Caucasus. The interrogation also
revealed the connection between Batayev and another man, who had also been
arrested last Friday in Gudermes (Chechen Republic) - Bekkhan Ospanov, who
apparently was supposed to have committed a second terrorist act in the First
Capital.

Kommersant reported the details of the interrogation and the information
collected by undercover investigative personnel. Militant rebels arrested in
Chechnya last Thursday had told of plans for explosions in the Caucasus
republics and of two "human bombs" sent to Moscow. The felons also named their
mentors - Wahhabi Emir Obu-Sulyan Dzhabrailov of Chechnya's Vedenskiy Rayon,
Ulan-Ude resident Aleksandr Tikhomirov, and field commander Khuseyn Gakayev.
They apparently testified that the Afghan Taleban had provided the bombers with
their "practical training."

After this, according to the report in the newspaper, law enforcement agencies
performed miracles of efficiency and professionalism. After learning the names
of the presumed perpetrators of the terrorist acts in Moscow, cousins Islam
Batayev and Bekkhan Ospanov, whose brother had already blown himself up in front
of a police station in Chechnya on 25 August, undercover investigators launched
an operation to catch the felons. Learning of Bekkhan's poor eyesight from the
Ospanov brothers' parents, the Chechen police were convinced that he had been
trained as a suicide bomber. On Friday the Chechen police already had Bekkhan
Ospanov under surveillance and were able to neutralize him in a frenzied
exchange of fire after the visually challenged terrorist lost his glasses. They
found seven detonators in the rebel's pockets and 3 grams of TNT (!) concealed
in one of his running shoes. He was also carrying a ticket from Kizlyar to
Moscow (with a scheduled arrival date of 7 September in the capital).

Islam Batayev was also arrested on Friday, in an apartment in Moscow's
Northeastern District. He provided more details of the terrorists' plan for two
explosions and shared some information about suicide bomber training tactics.
Apparently, this brand of holy martyrdom is a privilege reserved solely for
individuals who have suffered various deprivations while living in the forest
for a year. Batayev also reported that they were constantly "pumped" full of
psychotropic drugs, which put them into a trance.

That is the impressive and "credible" story the newspaper told. Either the
Chechen and Moscow law enforcement agencies got carried away with their
imaginations or the suicide bombers are now motivated by a wish to shock the
public in addition to causing lethal damage. Otherwise, why would such a
far-fetched account be printed in a respectable newspaper?

Judging by all indications, news items of such a dubious nature either are
supposed to demonstrate the efficiency of our national police force, which would
agree with the recent appeals Dmitriy Medvedev voiced at the conference in
Stavropol on terrorism in the Caucasus, or are intended to increase the anxiety
of the Moscow public, which has been warned about possible terrorist acts by
various publications for a long time now. Another explanation also seems
possible, however: The so-called siloviki are using methods of this type to
justify their influence in the Caucasus. Whatever motives the sources of these
reports were guided by, however, "fooling" the Russian reader in this way is
just not right.

Source: Politkom.ru website, Moscow, in Russian 9 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday

Terror attacks feared in major Pakistani cities on 18 September

LENGTH: 343 words


Text of report by Mazhar Tufail headlined: "Terror attack feared on Al-Quds Day"
published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 15 September

Islamabad: As the nation is going to observe Al-Quds Day on September 18
(Friday), a premier security agency has expressed the fear of a terrorism bid in
a major city of the country, particularly Islamabad, 'The News' learnt here on
Monday [14 September].

"As the nation is going to observe the day with traditional zeal with rallies,
processions and demonstrations planned in all major cities and towns in all four
provinces as well as Azad Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan, there is a serious
threat of a terrorism attempt, particularly in Peshawar, Parachinar, Quetta,
Islamabad, Lahore, Karachi and Multan," an official of the security agency told
'The News' on condition of anonymity.

The official said that a large number of people would gather outside Lal Masjid
on September 18. These people would hold a protest demonstration at Aabpara
Chowk.

He said that rallies and demonstrations would be held in all cities and towns
across the country.

"There is a serious threat of terrorism attempt from Afghanistan," the official
disclosed. To avert any sabotage act in Peshawar, Parachinar and Quetta,
extensive scanning would be conducted in areas bordering Afghanistan so that
Afghan nationals could be kept away from protest demonstrations and rallies in
major cities and towns close to the border, he said.

Protest demonstrations and rallies would be held on the appeal of Quaid
Millat-e-Jafaria Allama Syed Sajid Naqvi and leaders of Jamaat-e-Islami, Jamiat
Ulema-e-Islam, Jamiat Ulema-e-Pakistan, Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, Islami
Tehrik, Shia Ulema Council and Imamia Students Organisation.

"Almost all political parties have agreed to participate in the Youm Al-Quds
rallies," said Syed Sikandar Abbas Gilani while talking to 'The News'. "All
parties have said that their local leaders will participate in rallies in their
respective areas," he added.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 15 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                           September 15, 2009 Tuesday

Terror attacks reaction studied

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 97 words


University researchers have looked at the impact of the September 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks on language and America's "state of fear".

Dr Catherine Morley, a lecturer   at the University of Leicester, examined
literary responses to the "war on terror".

She said: "In light of this attack on American soil - the first foreign attack
since the Second World War, it is not surprising   American writers became more
subjective and less dispassionate.

"There was a general feeling among writers that words would inevitably fail in
the face of the extremely visual nature of the attacks."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


                        Copyright 2009 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 16, 2009 Wednesday

Judge in Iran's Kordestan explains recent "terrorist attacks"

LENGTH: 335 words


Tehran, 16 September: "Following three dastardly terrorist acts against local
officials in Kordestan Province, Judge [Ali Akbar] Garusi has provided some
information to us," Tabnak news agency reported on 16 September.

"In an interview with a Tabnak correspondent, Ali Akbar Garusi, the head of the
Justice Department in Kordestan, said: "A number of cases are being followed up
after the assassination attempts in the past few days and a number of special
operations teams from the Law Enforcement Force, Intelligence Ministry and other
security-military foundations have been formed. Moreover, a group of expert
judges have begun to follow up and seriously investigate the recent incidents
and senior officials of the province are closely monitoring the situation,"
Tabnak news agency reported.

"About the terrorists and their possible motives, he said: Such acts were
perpetrated by secessionist armed mini groups and Salafi [a Sunni Islamic
movement] extremist groups," Garusi said.

Judge Garusi named two judges and a Friday prayer imam in Sanandaj as the three
local officials who had been the target of the recent assassination attempts.
They were Judge Mehdi Kamiabi, Friday Prayer Imam of Qoba Mosque in Sanandaj
Mamusta Borhan Ali, and Assistant to Public Prosecutor Hasan Davtalab, Judge
Garusi said.

Judge Garusi said: "Judge Kamiabi who, was the target of a terrorist attack a
few days ago, is currently being treated in a Tehran hospital and the general
health of Judge Davtalab, who was the target of a terrorist attack this morning,
is satisfactory and there is no threat against his life."

Judge Garusi warned: "The perpetrators of such terrorist acts cannot escape the
law. We shall arrest them, put them on trial and punish them in the most severe
manner, so that it becomes a lesson to other opposition groups and those who
violate people's lives, property and security."

Judge Garusi rejected that the three terrorist acts were linked.

Source: Tabnak news website, in Persian 1244 gmt 16 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                Cornish Guardian

                               September 16, 2009

Golf event: 9/11 us survivors meet fellow firefighters;
Twelve New York firefighters who survived the terrorist attacks on the Twin
Towers have been in Cornwall this week to compete in a golf tournament
instigated after the 9/11 atrocities.

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 248 words


They are competing against UK and Irish firefighters for the Cyder Cup, an event
which has taken place every two years since April 2002 in lasting memory of
those who perished eight years ago and in tribute to those who survived.

The  golf competition was devised by UK firefighters after the 2001 Ryder Cup
was postponed for a year out of respect for those who  died at Ground Zero, and
is played on a home and away basis.

On Monday, the New Yorkers were at Trevose Golf Club near Padstow for a five-day
tournament that also included rounds at Perranporth and St Enodoc near Port
Isaac.

They are competing against firefighters drawn from England, Wales and Ireland.

One of the organisers, Symon Clifford, chief fire officer at Bristol Airport,
said there were a number of ways  firefighters in the UK had responded to the
9/11 attacks, but  they wanted to do more than simply fund-raise for the
families of their New York counterparts who had died that day.

"Over £2 billion was raised from donations across the world, but we wanted to do
something else and came up with the idea of the Cyder Cup to try and take these
guys' minds off  what they had gone through as much as we could, and a great
spirit of friendship and camaraderie has flourished over the years.

"The tournament is always friendly, but also fiercely competitive.

"These guys have been through so much.

"It's important for us to show them their ordeal hasn't been forgotten - it's a
bond that only other firefighters understand.''

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 59


                        Copyright 2009 Cornish Guardian
                              All Rights Reserved

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 16, 2009 Wednesday

US forces kill key al-Qaeda terrorist after daring air attack in Somalia

BYLINE: Mike Pflanz in Nairobi

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 588  words


US SPECIAL forces have

killed a leading al-Qaeda agent in Somalia, the first time they have officially
set foot in the country since the ill-fated Black Hawk Down mission.

Six helicopters were involved in an attack in which Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan was
killed.

The operation had echoes of the notorious 1993 incident in which two Black Hawk
helicopters were shot down by Somali gunmen during the Battle for Mogadishu.

The soldiers became involved in a day-long firefight which left 18 US Rangers
and more than 200 Somalis dead. Images of the bodies of the US  soldiers being
dragged around the streets led to an immediate pullout of the troops ordered by
President Bill Clinton. The operation was later dramatised in a book and film.

Monday's attack is thought to have been the first time American boots have been
on Somali soil since the debacle.

Nabhan, 30, died as Special Operations helicopters strafed his convoy during a
daylight raid launched from a US Navy warship patrolling off Somalia's coast.

Intelligence analysts in Nairobi said US commanders acted after receiving urgent
alerts that Nabhan, whom they had been watching for "a long, long time'' was on
the move and presenting an easy target.

Within an hour, up to six helicopters had closed in on a convoy of battered
four-wheel-drives speeding through the dust towards a village close to the town
of Barawe, 130 miles south of Mogadishu.

Reports said a short firefight ended when the firepower of the US Special
Operations forces overwhelmed the Somalis. Up to six men lay dead, including
Nabhan.

At least one of the helicopters landed at the attack site to collect Nabhan's
body and that of another man who died. Two injured men were also taken into
custody, it was reported. This was done to prove later that the US had hit its
target, analysts said. Earlier raids have ended in confusion with conflicting
reports as to whether Washington's missions had been successful.

Nabhan escaped at least one other missile attack in March last year. The
Kenyan-born terrorist is believed to have been a key link between al-Qaeda and
its Somali proxy, al-Shabaab, and is believed to have masterminded attacks on
Israeli targets.

He had been on the FBI's most wanted list since 2002 for his role in attacks on
a Kenyan beach hotel popular with Israelis and an attempt the same day to shoot
down a tourist flight bound for Tel Aviv.

Previous American attacks against suspected al-Qaeda agents in Somalia have left
scores of civilians dead.

"It seems they have listened to complaints over earlier civilian casualties,
this was a much cleaner, more targeted strike,'' said a Western diplomat in
Nairobi who focuses on Somalia.

Al-Shabaab's leader, Aden Hashi Ayro, was killed in a US warplane attack in May
last year. Yesterday a senior al-Shabaab member, who refused to be named, said
that the commando-style raid "can only make our will to defeat America and its
allies stronger''.

Speaking from Mogadishu, he threatened increased attacks on Somalia's weak
western-backed transitional government and a greater focus on US allies in east
Africa. This is likely to mean both Kenya and Ethiopia.

But al-Shabaab is now likely to be fractured and its key leaders "sent scurrying
for cover'', said EJ Hogendoorn, a Somalia analyst with the Brussels-based
Crisis Group.

"Al-Shabaab's operations are clearly going to be curtailed in the short run, and
its call for jihadists to come and train in Somalia may appear a little less
attractive to radicals watching from afar after the attack,'' he added.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                          September 16, 2009 Wednesday

Memorial service honours victims of terrorist attack;
Two sisters who lost their cousin in the 9/11 tragedy were among those who
attended an Exmouth memorial service for the victims.

BYLINE: BRADLEY GERRARD

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 352 words


Members of the town's emergency services turned out at the service in Phear
Park,  as did residents and six pupils from Exmouth Community College.

The 15-minute service, organised by Lionel Howell from the 531st Tribute Fund,
was followed by a two-minute silence.

The service was taken by Father Tony Oswin who said the event had "immeasurably
changed the world".

Sisters Charlotte Tuckett, 41, who lives in Ellerhayes, near Bradninch, and Tara
Corbett, 39, from Dorset, also attended the service to remember their cousin
Steven Lawn who lost his life in the tragedy.

Tara  said: "I was living and working in the USA. Steven had been there for a
few years.

"This event is very important to remember those lost. I was at Ground Zero on
the first anniversary."

Charlotte, who used to live in Lympstone, said: "I have been every year Lionel
has being doing it. I think it is very important. It has had such a huge impact
on everyone."

Andy Hallam, station manager at Exmouth Fire Station, said: "I have attended the
service each year and when you consider the amount of emergency service
personnel who lost their lives on that day, it still seems very poignant to
acknowledge that."

Bob Grigg, 59, an ex-firefighter from Exmouth, attends the ceremony, which falls
on his birthday, every year.

He said: "The service is important to remember all those people that were
killed. I come every year on my Harley Davidson, it's just one of those things
you do.

"I also think it is great of Lionel to organise it. It is relevant with what is
still going on in the world."

Mr Howell, who was supposed to retire in June from his role in the 531st Tribute
Fund, said: "I was asked if I would do this and I think it is important,
especially for people like Charlotte and Tara who lost a loved one.

"It is only right that we remember those who died. It is for them, the people
left behind and the emergency services."

Four wreaths were laid at the September 11 memorial with one laid on behalf of
the community college by Victoria Upton, 11, Hamish Ratley, 12, Tallulah
Bodenham, 12, Matthew Jackson, 11, Jevon Burns, 13, and Hannah Young, 13.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                           Express and Echo (Exeter)

                          September 16, 2009 Wednesday

Police step up hunt for gang behind 'despicable' attack on blind couple;
Youths terrorised a blind couple leaving them distressed and traumatised in what
police have branded a 'despicable' attack.

BYLINE: Eleanor Gregson

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 356 words


Police said the couple were targeted because of their visual impairment as they
walked their dog in Wonford, Exeter.

The incident took place several weeks ago, but  police inquires into finding
those responsible have so far drawn a blank. Officers believe someone living
locally will know the offenders. They are believed to be aged between 10 and 16.

The couple, who are described as middle aged, are both registered blind. They
were verbally and physically abused in the attack which took place in a grassy
area leading to Ludwell Valley Park behind Wonford Sports Centre, in Burnthouse
Lane.

They were walking their dog when they were approached by the  gang.

The couple were too distressed to talk to the Echo about the incident.

Police have described the attack as "despicable and cowardly" and are appealing
for any witnesses to contact them.

PC Treena Winteridge, of Exeter's Criminal Investigations Department, said: "The
offenders, who are believed to be juveniles, subjected their vulnerable victims,
both of whom are registered blind, to verbal and physical abuse.

"The couple did not suffer any lasting injuries, but have been left extremely
traumatised by the incident.

"They now feel very vulnerable - they cannot defend themselves due to their
visual impairment.

"The attack was a particularly nasty one. It was very random in nature and
committed by a group  for no reason at all.

"I understand the woman was putting the harness on the dog at the time and it
would have been quite clear to the youths that these were vulnerable people.

"This was a despicable and cowardly act.

"The offenders appear to have targeted this couple due to their disability and
in the knowledge that they would be unable to adequately defend themselves."

Police  want to speak to a man who was walking a small dog in the area at the
time of the incident,  at around 3.15pm on Monday, August 24. He is believed to
have spoken with the victims and may have witnessed the attack.

Anyone who thinks they saw the attack or who has any information that may assist
in identifying the offenders can  call the  police on 08452 777444 quoting crime
reference DE/09/9481.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 63


                        Copyright 2009 Express and Echo
                              All Rights Reserved

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          September 16, 2009 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

OUTRAGE AT ASSAULTS BY VICIOUS LAGS;
Officers' attack terror

BYLINE: BLANAID MURPHY; JOANNE McELGUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 277 words


PRISON officers have reacted furiously to a series of brutal assaults and a BOMB
threat.

Staff were battered in a mob attack by up to 20 teenage inmates at a young
offenders lock-up.

Elsewhere jailers were forced to deal with a savage row in Mountjoy involving
several prisoners - with one thug jumping through a WINDOW to attack a fellow
inmate.

An informed prison source said: "These incidents really highlight the dangers of
our job. Our overcrowded prisons are extremely volatile places.

"It can be incredibly dangerous when prisoners decide to cut loose." Three
officers were rushed to hospital after being badly beaten at St Patrick's
Institution in Dublin.

Vicious lags attacked four staff after one boy - jailed for stealing cars - was
caught picking up a drug drop.

Broken

One officer suffered a suspected arm fracture, the second a broken nose and the
third sustained a severe nosebleed in the incident on Monday, according to
sources.

At least two prisoners were brought to hospital for treatment after the violence
in Mountjoy. It's understood cleaners needed almost eight hours to mop up
puddles of blood following the horrifying disturbances.

Meanwhile, officers were on red alert after the suspected bomb was left at
Cloverhill Prison at the weekend.

It's understood an anonymous caller with a Northern accent rang a garda station
in west Dublin warning about the device.

A prison worker found a hoax bomb under his car in the staff car park later on
Saturday night.

A source said the events of the last few days were "very worrying", adding: "The
bomb threat showed how vulnerable prison officers are. It could have been the
real thing."

blanaid.murphy@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Your Local Guardian

                               September 16, 2009

Mumbai terror attack survivor completes duathlon

SECTION: NEWS WANDSWORTH

LENGTH: 263 words


A chartered surveyor who was shot in both legs and the chest during the
terrifying terrorist attack in Mumbai said he had completed "unfinished
business" when he finished a duathlon on Sunday.

Harnish Patel, 29, formerly of Santos Road, was using walking frames and
crutches until March this year, but raised money for the British Red Cross when
he ran in the Chelsea and Westminster Health Charity London event.

Mr Patel was in the Leopold Cafe, Mumbai, last November and was shot in both
legs and the chest when terrorists wielding AK-47 assault rifles and hand
grenades opened fire.

He said he was only alive because "the bullets missed all my arteries and major
organs".

After surgery in India Mr Patel underwent intensive physiotherapy at the
Hillingdon hospital in London, where he was helped by the Red Cross.

He focused on getting back to "the way things were" by swimming every day and
going back to running, his favourite sport.

The duathlon was an attempt to "write off some unfinished business", after he
pulled out of the 2006 event, he said.

Despite a slow time Mr Patel said he was "very comfortable doing the running
stage".

Asked if he saw himself as a role model for those who have suffered serious
injury, he said: "I don't see myself as much of anything, but I just crack on
with life, I always have and always will. You just have to navigate through the
obstacles of life and keep plugging away."

About 9.40pm on November 26 gunmen opened fire on the cafe. Six customers and
two waiters were killed. The attacks across Mumbai left 163 civilians and nine
gunmen dead.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday

Ethiopia "strongly" condemns "terrorist attack" in Somalia

LENGTH: 559 words


Text of statement issued by Ethiopian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (EMFA) on 17
September; published in English by EMFA website on 17 September

The government of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia [FDRE] strongly
condemns today's cowardly attack on AMISOM's [AU Mission In Somalia]
headquarters targeting AMISOM and TFG [Transitional Federal Government of
Somalia] authorities, and pledges, once again, to stand firmly with the TFG and
AMISOM in their heroic endeavours to stem the tide of terrorist violence and to
maintain peace and stability in the country.

The Ethiopian government realizes that these are, indeed, trying times for the
government and people of Somalia and it recognizes the murderous acts of
Al-Shabab [radical Somali Islamist group] and its international mujahideen
recruits will continue to pose a serious threat to the prospect of peace in that
country and the whole region. It is the conviction of the government of the FDRE
that such attacks should not scare elements of peace away from their cause.
Indeed, it is altogether fitting that such attacks, tragic and deplorable as
they are, be met with added resolve and commitment equal to the challenge. After
all, the choice of targets and the cowardly means employed clearly indicate how
desperate the terrorists are in the face of the joint efforts by the TFG, AMISOM
as well as other forces of peace to checkmate their murderous campaign.

The government of Ethiopia firmly believes that it is high time that the
international community redoubled its efforts already under way and to renew its
commitment to the cause of peace in Somalia. The brazenness of the attacks on
AMISOM HQ today should, if anything, point to the sense of urgency with which
the international community must bring its pressure to bear on the murderous
campaign of Al-Shabab and its international terrorist recruits as well as on
those who help these groups unleash destruction and carnage on the civilian
population and on the forces of peace. To the extent that there were some who
were willing to give Al-Shabab and its allies the benefit of the doubt for the
sake of peace, as it were, today's terrorist attack is a stark reminder that
these forces do not have even the slightest of interest in any national
reconciliation efforts in the country, at all. Needless to say, the
international community cannot remain complacent and its words need to be
matched by immediate and appropriate action in order to keep the prospect of
peace in Somalia alive.

Finally, the government of Ethiopia would like to express its condolences to the
TFG, AMISOM, to the people of Somalia in general as well as to those who may
have lost their loved ones as a result of this despicable act of terror. The
government of Ethiopia also expresses its sympathies with the governments of
Burundi and Uganda for the principled positions they have always taken and for
excellently discharging their responsibilities in a truly African spirit. The
government of Ethiopia also likes to take this opportunity to express its usual
readiness to support the efforts of forces of peace to rid Somalia of the forces
of violence and terror.

[Issued by] Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Democratic Republic of
Ethiopia.

Addis Ababa, 17 September 2009.

Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs website, Addis Ababa, in English 17 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                         Midhurst and Petworth Observer

                               September 17, 2009

Learn what to do in case of a terrorist attack

LENGTH: 157 words



HIGHLIGHT: Countywide workshops organised by Surrey police for companies to
learn how to plan  and prepare for, prevent and recover from a possible
terrorist attack are being held throughout the county.


The next workshop will be held at the Georgian House Hotel, Haslemere on
Tuesday, September 29.

Project ARGUS places local businesses in the midst of a  simulated terrorist
attack as a multi-media experience.

"The twin aims of these meetings are to raise awareness and to help make us more
resilient as a community," said Bob Stephens, head of Surrey Police's counter
terrorism security office.

The workshops are being organised by Surrey Police and the National Counter
Terrorism Security Office with the support of partners.

The workshop at the Georgian House Hotel is  supported by Waverley Borough
Council.

Coffee and registration is from 9.30am, for a prompt 10am start. To reserve a
place, email clare.arnold@waverley.gov.uk or ring Clare on 01483 523088.

What do you think? Send a letter to news@chiobserver.co.uk or leave a comment
below.

To tell us where in the world you are reading this story click here to add
yourself to our readers' map.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MAP


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

SUICIDE BUMMER;
Nut dies in TNT up rear terror attack

BYLINE: SIMON HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 190 words


A SUICIDE bomber tried to kill a Saudi prince by detonating TNT - stuffed up his
backside.

The al-Qaeda fanatic blew himself up but his intended victim escaped.

Last night astonished experts admitted: "We have never heard of anything quite
like this before." The target was the head of the security service in Saudi
Arabia - Prince Mohammed Bin Nayef.

Islamic extremist Abdullah Hassan Tali al-Asiri, 23, who was on a most wanted
list, tricked his way to a meeting by saying he was turning his back on terror.

But it was his backside that was full of terror - a stick of TNT. And he fooled
security checks as he went inside the prince's office in Jeddah. It is believed
the explosive was detonated electronically. Expert Chris Dobson last night:
"This is a worrying development because it is a tactic that could be repeated
against UK targets."

Former soldier Mike Yardley said: "I have never come across a suicide bombing of
this kind. Hiding it in a body cavity was obviously an attempt to defeat
scanners."

Prince Nayef, who had led an anti-terror crackdown, injured his hand. He
admitted: "He surprised me by blowing himself up."

53341@the-sun.ie

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Blown up ... Abdullah tried killing prince

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                          September 17, 2009 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

SUICIDE BUMMER;
Nut dies in 'backside TNT' Saudi terrorist attack

BYLINE: SIMON HUGHES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 293 words


A SUICIDE bomber tried to kill a Saudi prince by detonating TNT explosive -
stuffed up his BACKSIDE.

The al-Qaeda fanatic blew himself up but his intended victim escaped with just
minor injuries.

Last night astonished experts admitted: "We have never heard of anything quite
like this before."

The target was the head of the security service in Saudi Arabia - Prince
Mohammed Bin Nayef.

Islamic extremist Abdullah Hassan Tali al-Asiri, 23, who was on a mostwanted
list, tricked his way to a meeting by saying he was turning his back on terror.
He hid the stick of TNT in his rear to fool security checks as he went inside
the prince's office in port city of Jeddah.

It is believed the explosive was detonated electronically.

Security expert Chris Dobson last night: "I have never heard of this precise
method before.

Worrying

"This is a worrying development because it is a tactic that could be repeated
against UK targets.

"It is a reminder, if one was needed, that terrorists are always looking for new
ways of inflicting destruction."

And ex-soldier and weapons expert Mike Yardley added: "Hiding it in a body
cavity was obviously an attempt to defeat scanners and detectors.

"I would guess it was detonated electronically, but thankfully the victim
escaped because the bomber's body appears to have suppressed the force of the
blast."

Al-Qaeda named the bomber and released a statement claiming responsibility for
the attack.

It is believed they copied the idea from smugglers, who similarly hide drugs
inside their bodies in an attempt to beat searches.

Prince Nayef is a vital ally of Britain and the US, who led a terror crackdown
in the desert kingdom.

The prince only suffered a hand injury.

He admitted: "He surprised me by blowing himself up."

s.hughes@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Blown up . . Asiri tried to kill prince

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2009 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 18, 2009 Friday

Israel warns of "imminent" terror attacks across India

LENGTH: 246 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

[Harinder Mishra]

Jerusalem, 18 September: Israel has warned that Pakistan- based Lashker-e-Toiba
(LeT), which carried out the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, is planning "imminent" terror
strikes across India especially in India's northernmost state of Jammu and
Kashmir.

Israel's Counter-Terrorism Bureau at the National Security Council (NSC) in a
travel warning for Israeli tourists in India rated the threat as "imminent and
concrete", putting special emphasis on the Jammu and Kashmir.

"The terrorist group that carried out the serious Mumbai attack in India is
planning to carry out a number of attacks across India, particularly against
concentrations of Western or Israeli tourists," warned a statement from Israel's
counter-terrorism unit.

The bureau has recommended Israelis currently in India to avoid crowded areas,
especially tourist areas, which have no apparent armed security.

The statement said the travel warning was based on "a concrete, very serious
threat."

In view of potential terror attacks across the entire country, Israeli
travellers have been advised to "take precautions and remain alert".

The warning comes at a time when the Chabad houses across India are planning
numerous events for the celebration of Rosh Hashana, the Jewish new year. Last
year's attacks in Mumbai had targeted a Chabad house, among several other
targets, where six Israelis were killed.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 0605gmt 18 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 18, 2009 Friday

Pakistani analyst sees foreign role in Khyber terror attacks

LENGTH: 953 words


Text of article by Qazi Muhammad Rauf headlined "Khyber Agency in grip of
bloodshed once again" published by Pakistani newspaper Nawa-i-Waqt on 16
September

Khyber Agency is divided into three tehsils [sub-divisions] -- Landi Kotal,
Jamrud, and Bara. Unfortunately, such situation is prevailing here for the past
few months that people living in these peaceful areas are under the constant
fear of terrorism. The people of Khyber Agency had not yet forgotten the Jamrud
Bhagyari mosque incident, which occurred on 26 March, when they suffered the
shock of a suicide attack at the Khasadar [tribal police] barrack in Turkham on
the Pakistani-Afghan border just before the ceremony to break the Ramadan fast
on the evening of 27 August. If the nature of incidents is seen, these blasts
are similar in nature, and religious institutions have been targeted.

The Jamrud Bhagyari incident occurred at a time when the Friday sermon had been
delivered and the prayer leader was about to start prayers. No sooner did he
say, God is great, than the explosion occurred. Over 100 personnel and common
people were killed and several others wounded. The suicide attack on the
Pakistani-Afghan border at Turkham was also of the same nature. A suicide bomber
headed toward the Khasadar barrack with a bottle of water in his hand. The
personnel were waiting for the ceremony to break their fast. The suicide bomber
expressed the desire to commit a noble deed by serving water to them. It is
commonly known that serving the fasting people at the time of breaking fast is a
noble deed, and a guest is considered God's special blessing in the Pashtun
society. Khasadars greatly honored the suicide bomber, invited him to the dining
table, and offered him something to eat. No sooner did the voice, God is great,
was heard from a nearby mosque and the Khasadars! were about to start their meal
after drinking water, than the suicide assailant hurled a hand grenade, which
did not explode. Immediately, he blew himself up. Eighteen personnel present
there were killed on the spot, while two more were killed near a table.
Twenty-seven personnel were injured in the incident.

The news of the incident spread like wildfire in the area and then across the
country and the world. Smoke engulfed the incident scene, and it was dark. The
people present on the occasion started rescue work as soon as the smoke
dispersed. They deserve appreciation for the speed with which they took part in
rescue work. The bodies of those martyred in the suicide attack along with the
injured were immediately taken to the agency headquarters hospital, and the
injured were given medical treatment there. The bodies of martyred personnel
were handed over to their relatives at Landi Kotal hospital, and they were laid
to rest in their native graveyards the next day. Those martyred belonged to
different subtribes of Zakha Khel.

The funeral prayer for those martyred in the suicide attack was offered on
Friday in different areas of Landi Kotal, including Bazaar Zakha Khel, Krimna,
Berg, and Sadu Khel. No high-ranking official participated in the funeral
prayers due to security concerns, while the political agent of Khyber Agency
announced 100,000 rupees each for the heirs of those martyred, and the injured
were provided free medical treatment.

Turkham is a sensitive place on the Pakistani-Afghan border. The explosion
before this also occurred at a sensitive place. The route is used for provision
of daily essentials to the masses and for access to Central Asian states. Due to
this, Pakistan-Afghan Highway holds great importance, and the terrorists are
particularly focusing on it. The involvement of a foreign hand in the suicide
attacks in Jamrud and Turkham cannot be ruled out, because no Muslim can think
of committing such a heinous act under these situations. The political agent of
Khyber Agency, Captain [ret] Tariq Hayat Khan, has also stated in clear terms
that a foreign hand is behind these incidents, and it wants to disrupt peace to
create anarchy. They are trying to end the trade being transacted through
Turkham.

A suicide bomber was arrested at Turkham on the Pakistan-Afghan border some time
ago, who said he was brought from Afghanistan to launch suicide attacks. The
detained suicide bomber was between 14 and 16 years. His arrest was made due to
the vigilance and strict security of Khasadars. But the situation here was
different. It is unfortunate that Pakistan, which is engaged in the war on
terror at the global level, is also a victim of terrorism, and such factors are
at work against it that are allies in the war on terror and also conspire
behind-the-scenes to weaken Pakistan economically. The Indian intelligence
agency, RAW, and Israeli agency, Mossad, cannot be overlooked here, because they
never miss such an opportunity [to harm Pakistan]. The Baghyari mosque suicide
attack on the Pakistan-Afghan highway and the Turkham suicide attack on the
Pakistan-Afghan border are parts of the same chain.

They [RAW, Mossad] want to succeed in their nefarious designs by weakening
Pakistani security measures, so that the security situation in Pakistan may be
questioned by the world community and Pakistan can be isolated by maligning it.
However, those hatching conspiracies against the country must know that the
people who became victim to terrorism offered the ultimate sacrifice for the
sake of their country's defence and security. The blood of doctors, government
functionaries, factory owners, and poor people is included in these sacrifices.
It will bear fruit, and the elements hatching conspiracies against the country
will get nothing except humiliation.

Source: Nawa-i-Waqt, Rawalpindi, in Urdu 16 Sep 09, p 10

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 18, 2009 Friday

Terrorist attacks feared on Id al-Fitr in 25 cities of northwest Pakistan

LENGTH: 195 words


Text of report by staff correspondent headlined "25 cities declared sensitive on
Eid" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 18 September

Peshawar: After the death of Baitullah Mahsud, top commander of banned
Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan, and ongoing operation against militants in tribal
areas including Swat, the law enforcement agencies have declared 25 cities of
NWFP [North-West Frontier Province] including provincial metropolis as sensitive
on Id al-Fitr.

Special security arrangements would be taken in the sensitive cities on Id,
sources said.

After the death of Taleban commander and arrest of different terrorists'
leaders, the law enforcement agencies have sent a report to Interior Ministry
and home departments of all the four provinces, warning them of possible
terrorist incidents on Id al-Fitr in major cities of the country.

The law enforcement agencies in their report also directed relevant authorities
to adopt extraordinary security arrangements. On the other hand, home
departments of all the four provinces have submitted their security plans to the
Interior Ministry, sources added.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 18 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 18, 2009 Friday

Energy infrastructure in Russia's south prone to terrorist attacks - FSB

LENGTH: 198 words


Text of report by Russian state news agency ITAR-TASS

Rostov-na-Donu, 18 September: The threat of terrorist and sabotage attacks
against facilities of the fuel and energy infrastructure remains real in
Russia's south. This was stated today by the press service of the FSB [Federal
Security Service] directorate for Rostov Region, quoting the conclusions made at
a meeting of the council of the heads of the security agencies of the Southern
Federal District which has taken place in Astrakhan.

It is being noted that six terrorist and sabotage attacks on open sections of
the Mozdok-Kazimagomed trunk gas pipeline in Dagestan were prevented during the
first six months of this year alone.

Over the past two years more than 330 cases of illegal tapping into trunk oil
pipelines were also discovered in the federal district. This fact proves that
facilities of the fuel and energy infrastructure are insufficiently protected
and are vulnerable.

"On the basis of the discussion, specific decisions were taken on the issues of
improvement of operational-service activity in a number of other areas of work,"
the directorate reported.

Source: ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian 1131 gmt 18 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        The Observer (London)  (England)

                               September 20, 2009

Clampdown by police amid fears of major terrorist attack: Dissidents plan
'greeting' for new chief constable

BYLINE: Henry McDonald Ireland Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 650 words


Armed police checkpoints have been set up across Northern Ireland this weekend
to counter the threat of a "spectacular" terror attack by dissident republicans.

Mobile checkpoints have been established on the main arterial routes leading
into Greater Belfast and other major towns as part of the Police Service of
Northern Ireland's "Operation Dissent" - security measures designed to prevent a
large-scale terrorist incident over the next few days.

As well as entry points into towns and cities, police patrols were stopping vans
and lorries in Belfast city centre yesterday afternoon as part of the security
clampdown across the Province.

Security sources told the Observer yesterday that the PSNI had received
"top-grade intelligence" that the armed republican groups opposed to the peace
process were planning an attack to mark the arrival of the new chief constable,
Matt Baggott.

He takes over as head of the PSNI on Tuesday. However, the sources stressed that
the PSNI had no "pin-point or accurate knowledge" as to where or whom the
dissidents were targeting.

A PSNI spokeswoman yesterday confirmed that the police have begun an important
security operation. "Police will put in place a high-visibility operation over
the forthcoming days following a recent increase in dissident republican
activity," she said.

"The operation will take effect across the Province, utilising vehicle check-
points and high-visibility patrols to counter what police believe is an increase
in threat from dissident republicans."

She admitted that the checkpoints and security searches would cause disruptions
over the next few days. "Police apologise in advance for the inconven ience this
operation will cause, but seek the public's patience and support in what we
believe is a necessary step to prevent those with murderous intent going about
their business."

Baggott's deputy, Judith Gillespie, last week described the current dissident
terror threat as "severe".

All three dissident terror groups - the Real IRA, Continuity IRA and Oglaigh na
hEireann - have intensified their activities in recent weeks. The Continuity IRA
is believed to be behind two nights of violence on the streets of Lurgan last
week, when hijacked burning vehicles blocked the Dublin-Belfast rail line. The
disturbances followed the jailing of three Continuity IRA men for 15 years in
con nection with a mortar bomb plot aimed at killing police officers. The jailed
trio all came from the Lurgan area. Armed men wearing masks were spotted late
Friday night in the Lake Street area of Lurgan. Up to 30 youths were involved in
hijacking vehicles and firing missiles at PSNI patrols.

Meanwhile, the Dublin-Belfast railway line between Lisburn and Portadown
remained closed yesterday due to the disturbances. Rail passengers are being
taken by bus from Lisburn to Newry. There is already severe disruption on the
main railway link on the island due to the collapse of the rail bridge at
Malahide in north Dublin.

The smallest republican dissident organisation, Oglaigh na hEireann, was behind
a 600lb bomb attached to a command wire stretching into the Republic, which was
defused by the army in south Armagh this month.

In Derry, the Real IRA left bombs at the homes of relatives of a Catholic PSNI
officer a fortnight ago. Catholic recruits to the police remain among the prime
targets of dissident terror groups.

In August the Real IRA took over the south Armagh village of Meigh, where armed
men wearing masks set up a roadblock to stop traffic. During the incident a PSNI
mobile patrol spotted the Real IRA unit but withdrew from the village, fearing
that their presence would provoke a firefight.

Police set up checkpoints in Belfast and all over the province this weekend to
head off an attack by dissidents. Paul Faith/PA

Matt Baggott

takes over as new chief constable on Tuesday, but tip-offs said a 'spectacular'
incident will mark his arrival.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        The Observer (London)  (England)

                               September 20, 2009

National: Clampdown by police amid fears of major terrorist attack: Dissidents
plan 'greeting' for new chief constable

BYLINE: Henry McDonald, Ireland Editor

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 627 words


Armed police checkpoints have been set up across Northern Ireland this weekend
to counter the threat of a "spectacular" terror attack by dissident republicans.

Mobile checkpoints have been established on the main arterial routes leading
into Greater Belfast and other major towns as part of the Police Service of
Northern Ireland's "Operation Dissent" - security measures designed to prevent a
large-scale terrorist incident over the next few days.

As well as entry points into towns and cities, police patrols were stopping vans
and lorries in Belfast city centre yesterday afternoon as part of the security
clampdown across the Province.

Security sources told the Observer yesterday that the PSNI had received
"top-grade intelligence" that the armed republican groups opposed to the peace
process were planning an attack to mark the arrival of the new chief constable,
Matt Baggott.

He takes over as head of the PSNI on Tuesday. However, the sources stressed that
the PSNI had no "pin-point or accurate knowledge" as to where or whom the
dissidents were targeting.

A PSNI spokeswoman yesterday confirmed that the police have begun an important
security operation. "Police will put in place a high-visibility operation over
the forthcoming days following a recent increase in dissident republican
activity," she said.

"The operation will take effect across the Province, utilising vehicle check-
points and high-visibility patrols to counter what police believe is an increase
in threat from dissident republicans."

She admitted that the checkpoints and security searches would cause disruptions
over the next few days. "Police apologise in advance for the inconven ience this
operation will cause, but seek the public's patience and support in what we
believe is a necessary step to prevent those with murderous intent going about
their business."

Baggott's deputy, Judith Gillespie, last week described the current dissident
terror threat as "severe".

All three dissident terror groups - the Real IRA, Continuity IRA and Oglaigh na
hEireann - have intensified their activities in recent weeks. The Continuity IRA
is believed to be behind two nights of violence on the streets of Lurgan last
week, when hijacked burning vehicles blocked the Dublin-Belfast rail line. The
disturbances followed the jailing of three Continuity IRA men for 15 years in
con nection with a mortar bomb plot aimed at killing police officers. The jailed
trio all came from the Lurgan area. Armed men wearing masks were spotted late
Friday night in the Lake Street area of Lurgan. Up to 30 youths were involved in
hijacking vehicles and firing missiles at PSNI patrols.

Meanwhile, the Dublin-Belfast railway line between Lisburn and Portadown
remained closed yesterday due to the disturbances. Rail passengers are being
taken by bus from Lisburn to Newry. There is already severe disruption on the
main railway link on the island due to the collapse of the rail bridge at
Malahide in north Dublin.

The smallest republican dissident organisation, Oglaigh na hEireann, was behind
a 600lb bomb attached to a command wire stretching into the Republic, which was
defused by the army in south Armagh this month.

In Derry, the Real IRA left bombs at the homes of relatives of a Catholic PSNI
officer a fortnight ago. Catholic recruits to the police remain among the prime
targets of dissident terror groups.

In August the Real IRA took over the south Armagh village of Meigh, where armed
men wearing masks set up a roadblock to stop traffic. During the incident a PSNI
mobile patrol spotted the Real IRA unit but withdrew from the village, fearing
that their presence would provoke a firefight.

Police set up checkpoints in Belfast and all over the province this weekend to
head off an attack by dissidents.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 21, 2009 Monday

Algerian terrorists attack military convoy in Lakhdaria region

LENGTH: 159 words


Text of report by Algerian newspaper Liberte website on 19 September

[Report by A. Debbache: "Lakhdaria: Military convoy attacked in Maala"]

With the approach of Id [el-Fitr], the terrorists have committed an attack on a
military convoy in the spot known as Ouled Bechali, in the municipality of Maala
(Lakhdaria, 50 kilometres from Bouira).

According to our sources, a homemade bomb hidden by the side of the road was
triggered remotely as the military convoy drove past this past Tuesday [15
September]. The explosion caused about 10 wounded.

Despite the surprise effect, the elements from the National People's Army [ANP]
were in control of the situation by positioning themselves to respond to any
burst of fire. The victims, who were given help, were all transferred to the Ain
Naadja military hospital and their days are not in danger. A huge search
operation was kicked off on the heights of Maala.

Source: Liberte, website, Algiers, in French 19 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS



           PA Regional Newswire of English Regions: YORKS AND HUMBER

                     September 21, 2009 Monday 1:17 PM BST

ATTACKER HAD WATCHED VIDEOS OF TERRORISTS

SECTION: PA Regional Newswire for English Regions

LENGTH: 207 words


A Hull University student watched terrorist videos before breaking into his
ex-girlfriend's home and stabbing her, a court has been told.

Barry Nason, 26, from Raglan Street, Hull, attacked Birgit Massam on February 12
when he found out she had a new boyfriend, Hull Crown Court heard.

Nason watched video footage of beheadings, terrorist training exercises and
petrol bombings to ``beef himself up'' before putting on an Army uniform and
arming himself with an axe and a knife.

He went to Miss Massam's house and smashed patio doors with the axe and stabbed
her in the back with the knife.

Surgeons who operated on her said she was lucky not to have died from her
injury.

Nason was charged with attempted murder but earlier this year pleaded guilty to
a lesser charge of wounding with intent, which was accepted by the prosecution.

Katherine Robinson, prosecuting, said when Nason was asked by police why he
watched the videos, he said it was to ``beef himself up''.

She went on: ``He wanted to make himself feel hard and important. Watching
terrorist training exercises and petrol bombings made him feel strong.''

Nason told police he wore the Army jacket ``to make himself feel like a hard
man''.

The case was adjourned until Tuesday for sentencing. end

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday

Several terrorist attacks foiled in Algeria during Ramadan - paper

LENGTH: 805 words


Text of report entitled "Several terrorist attacks against civilians and
security barriers  foiled  in Ramadan" published by privately-owned Algerian
newspaper Echourouk El Youmi website on 22 September

The army troops had foiled several terrorist attacks planned by the terrorist
organization by the name of the "Salafi Group for Call and Combat," under the
command of "Abdelmalek Droukdel" (Abou Mousab Abdelouadoud) during the month of
Ramadan, which knew this year a significant stability at the security level.
Security observers emphasized that 2009 Ramadan had been a safe one since the
outbreak of violence in Algeria.

According to observers, the security plan adopted by the army command during the
month of Ramadan was "effective and efficient in the field". The military
command had focused on the deployment of the largest number of its members in
order to achieve a wide coverage of security which contributed in the field to
paralyze the movements of terrorists across several regions in addition to the
intensification of search operations that have expanded outside of the main
strongholds of the terrorist organization and the registration of a significant
decline of support and the fact that citizens inform about suspicious movements.
Citizens foiled a terrorist attack on the outskirts of Boumerdes in the last
days of Ramadan that targeted an armed civilian.

The army troops had carried out pre-emptive operations within the framework of
preventive action before the holy month of Ramadan as they were in possession of
information on plans by the terrorist organization "The Salafi Group"  to carry
out spectacular attacks for propaganda purposes, especially in the capital, and
find a remedy to the series of blows it received remarkably in recent months.
This is especially so since terrorist organizations had, in previous years, been
observed to step up its activity on this religious occasion and intensify the
attacks by using explosives, especially under the control of the remnants of
"GIA" on the leadership of "Droukdel's" organization.

The information available to "Echourouk" indicated that "Droukdel's" leadership
had issued instructions to all its activists to intensify terrorist acts and
expand the attacks in the month of Ramadan, but it faced difficulties in the
field due to security prosecutions and the monitoring of the movement of its
elements, who had resorted to move in small groups in order to escape ambushes
and reduce human casualties, and also ensure ease of movement.

The activation of intelligence work contributed significantly to foil the
schemes of "Droukdel" through carrying out precise military operations,
dismantling support and assignment networks and the arrest of terrorists who
were planning to carry out terrorist attacks in the capital and its environs in
view of the media coverage they achieve.

Unsuccessful attacks against the security barriers are an indicator of the
decline of terrorist capabilities

The stifle on "Droukdel's" followers, especially in his main strongholds, led to
the carrying out of individual attacks that targeted the elements of the
municipal guards and self-defense and the intensification of kidnappings for
ransom. This reflects the financial deficit experienced by the organization
after drying up funding sources, in addition to the failed attacks against
security barriers and checkpoints, particularly in Kabylie region, which once
again reflected the inability of "Droukdel's" followers for direct confrontation
and the decline of their capabilities. "Droukdel's" followers had also targeted
former armed civilians as it occurred in the area of Lakata in Boumerdes where
the terrorist activity had recently focused. Circles do not rule out that the
perpetrators of these attacks are among the members of support and assignment
networks who were drawn into the direct terrorist act after surrounding the
terrorists in the mountains.

Furthermore, observers of the security issue link the stability that was known
in the last month of Ramadan to the decline in support, the vigilance of
citizens and the fact of informing the security services of the most
insignificant suspicious movements. A terrorist attack was foiled on the
outskirts of Boumerdes thanks to the intervention of citizens. It targeted an
element of self-defense. It was recently recorded a decline in support and
backing of the main strongholds  of terrorism after the attacks that targeted
civilians, as it happened in Tadmait in Tizi Ouzou. "Droukdel's" leadership
turned its activity to the civilian suppliers of military barracks. A supplier
was assassinated in Tizi Ouzou in order to intimidate all those who commercially
deal with the security services after it failed to "convince them" to do so.

Source: Echourouk El Youmi website, Algiers, in Arabic 22 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                           September 22, 2009 Tuesday

Eight years for man 'beefed up' for knife attack by terror videos

LENGTH: 475 words



HIGHLIGHT: A jealous student who stabbed his ex-girlfriend in a drink-fuelled
attack after watching terrorist videos to "beef himself up" has been jailed for
eight years.


Barry Nason, 26, of Raglan Street, Hull, went on the rampage in February after
discovering fellow University of Hull student Birgit Massem had a new boyfriend.

The elected equal opportunities councillor with the student union dressed in
camouflage, armed himself with an axe and knife and went to find her, smashing
his way into her home, before stabbing her in the back with the knife.

Surgeons who operated on her said it was "astonishing" the weapon had not hit
any vital organs.

Sentencing Nason, Judge Michael Mettyear, Recorder of Hull, said Nason's
behaviour during their relationship was "sometimes odd, sometimes threatening
and sometimes worrying".

He said his actions on the evening of the attack were "serious and worrying" and
only a custodial sentence could be justified.

He said: "You watched violent videos, including videos of beheadings to 'beef
yourself up'. You then set off to her home in combat gear with an axe and a
vicious-looking knife, intending to attack and injure her.".

Judge Mettyear said Miss Massem had been seriously affected by the attack.

"Physically, she has made a fairly good, but not complete, recovery. She's left
with scars that concern her and inhibit her dress.

"The psychological scars are much more serious," he added.

Nason, originally from Ireland, was charged with attempted murder, but earlier
pleaded guilty to wounding with intent, which was accepted by the prosecution.
He showed no emotion as he listened to the judge but shook his head as he was
led out of the dock.

Earlier the court heard on the evening of the attack the victim had seen Nason
in a nightclub where he told her: "I'm going to find out who he is and because
of you and him I'm going to kill myself."

She was later woken by the sound of smashing glass and found Nason in her
bedroom.

The aftermath of the attack was seen by a housemate who came into the room and
saw the victim on the floor in the foetal position with blood "pumping out" of
the wound and said Nason "appeared to crumple".

Defending, Paul Genney said that immediately after Nason  stabbed Miss Massem,
he "came to his senses" and dialled 999.

Mr Genney added: "This was a totally out of character offence fuelled by
alcohol, committed in a mood of jealousy and while suffering pangs of rejection.
With this one blow he changed his mind and came to his senses. He took his coat
off to try and staunch the flow of blood, and he called the police and stayed
with her."

Speaking after the sentencing, Det Con Craig Nicholson, of Humberside Police,
said: "I am pleased that the severity of Barry Nason's actions has been
recognised by the court.

"This was a vicious and premeditated attack motivated by the defendant's
jealousy and obsession."

He praised Miss Massem for her "bravery and dignity" throughout the
investigation and said he hoped she could now move forward with her life.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YPOS


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                   September 23, 2009 Wednesday 06:49 PM GMT

Gaddafi attacks 'terror council' UN

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 950 words


Colonel Muammar Gaddafi today attacked the United Nations, branding the Security
Council the "terror council".

The Libyan leader was addressing the UN in New York as those affected by
terrorist attacks protested at his presence outside.

Colonel Gaddafi lambasted the UN's "inequality" and inability to prevent some 65
wars breaking out since being founded in 1945.

His words came as relatives of victims of the Lockerbie bombing gathered on the
roads leading to the UN compound to demonstrate against his appearance in front
of the general assembly.

They were joined by those affected by the September 11 attacks in New York and
family members of victims of IRA violence in the North.

As they united in their condemnation of Gaddafi, the man himself used the
opportunity of speaking to world leaders to hit out at the UN's structure.

He said Libya did not accept, acknowledge or recognise the UN charter and
criticised the make-up of the Security Council.

Dressed in brown robes with a large black badge of Africa attached, Gaddafi read
from hand-written notes contained in a yellow folder.

He called for an abolition of veto rights for the permanent council members.

"It should not be called the Security Council, it should be called the 'terror
council'," he said.

Gaddafi added that the body should be more representative with a place on the
council for African nations.

He also attacked the UN's inability to prevent conflict, noting that since 1945
"sixty-five aggressive wars took place without any collective action by the
United Nations to prevent them".

Gaddafi's speech directly followed that of President Barack Obama.

The Libyan leader welcomed the US leader's address, adding that he was "a
glimpse in the dark".

He contrasted it to the actions of the previous US administration, calling on
the Bush administration to be held to account over the Iraq war.

He said that "those who have participated in mass murder against Iraqis" should
be tried.

Gaddafi added that the US will never come to a "fruitful" result in terms of the
conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Gaddafi's long - it lasted for around one and a half hours - and at times
rambling speech took in a number of topics, from the effects of jet lag to swine
flu and even the assassination of John F Kennedy, but it was delivered in front
of a half-empty chamber.

The US was represented by two low to mid-ranking diplomats, with secretary of
state Hillary Clinton leaving the hall after President Obama's address.

Likewise British foreign secretary David Miliband left the chamber shortly
before the Libyan leader's speech, a spokeswoman for the UK mission the UN
confirmed.

The UK was represented by Ivan Lewis, the foreign office minister responsible
for Libya.

Gaddafi's first speech at the UN could not have occurred at a move sensitive
time in relations between the African state and the West.

It comes just weeks after the release of Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi, the
man convicted of the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103.

The release was especially of concern to the US. Of the 270 lives lost when the
plane crashed after exploding over the Scottish town of Lockerbie, 189 were
American.

Even before he arrived, the issue of Gaddafi's visit had provoked controversy
and hastily rearranged plans as to where the Libyan leader would pitch his tent
- Mr Gaddafi famously shuns hotels while on foreign trips in favour of a
Bedouin-style camp.

Original plans to set up at a five-acre plot in New Jersey were changed amid
local opposition - many of the victims' relatives live in the state.

Later, the Libyan government asked to use Manhattan's Central Park, but the
request was denied.

Instead they opted for a site in Bedford, around 43 miles from the centre of New
York. But this has likewise been greeted with protest from local residents.

Today anti-Gaddafi anger was taken directly to the UN. In the hours leading up
to his address, anti-terror activists arrived to air their complaint over
Gaddafi's presence.

Many taking part in the protest had lost loved ones in the bombing of Pan Am
flight 103.

Kathy Tedeschi lost her husband Bill Daniels in the terrorist blast. The
60-year-old travelled from South Carolina to attend the demonstration.

She said: "I am horrified that Gaddafi is here and he is welcomed as a member of
the UN and able to speak. I'm appalled and just so upset."

Ms Tedeschi added: "He showed no compassion to me, my husband or the 269 other
people (who died in the Lockerbie bombing).

Glenn Johnson's daughter Beth Ann was also killed in the attack on the Pan Am
flight.

The 67-year-old from Pittsburgh said: "It is a day to be angry. It is anger at
being double-crossed."

"The British really let us down," he added in reference to the release of Al
Megrahi.

William Frazer travelled from Northern Ireland to attend the protest.

He lost four family members including his father during the Troubles. He wanted
to highlight the role Gaddafi played in supplying the IRA with arms and
technology in the 1970s.

Now a spokesman for Families Acting for Innocent Relatives (Fair), Mr Frazer
said: "This was a rogue state that sponsored terrorism.

"They say Gaddafi has changed. Well, compassion has been shown to the Libyan
government; what about the Libyan people? And what about compassion coming from
Gaddafi to the people he helped (make) victims?"

The anti-Gaddafi protest was separated by two barriers from an equally large
pro-Gaddafi lobby.

This welcoming committee was swelled by members from the Nation of Islam who
turned out in large numbers.

They lined the roads at uniform intervals, dressed in dark suits and bow ties.

Despite repeated requests, noone from the organisation would discuss why they
had turned out for Gaddafi's arrival.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                      Coventry Evening Telegraph (England)

                          September 24, 2009 Thursday
                                Nuneaton Edition

Prostitute's 'attack terror';
COURTS: 'Predator' denies sexually assaulting pair

BYLINE: Sandish Shoker

SECTION: ; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 427 words


A PROSTITUTE told a court how she was punched and sexually assaulted in a
Coventry park by a 43-year-old man.

She described how she ran home and told her boyfriend who then tracked down the
defendant Steven Nicklin, aged 43, and confronted him.

Giving evidence, she admitted that when she told police about the attack she
lied about some of the details to protect her boyfriend from getting into
trouble.

Nicklin, of Snowdon Close, Grove Farm, Nuneaton, is on trial at Coventry Crown
Court accused of sexually assaulting two women and kidnapping a third in
Hillfields on October 18 last year.

He denies all the charges. The court has already been told how two of the women
he assaulted were working as prostitutes on the night and the other was walking
home alone from a night out in the city centre with work friends.

The jury was told that Nicklin was an "aggressive sexual predator" and in the
early hours of October 18, he had been prowling the streets for victims.

His alleged second victim, a prostitute, told the jury Nicklin had approached
her for work in Payne's Lane, Hillfields.

As they walked past the Binley Oak pub in Payne's Lane, another woman warned her
that she had been attacked by Nicklin earlier that evening.

"He was staggering like he was really drunk and he looked sincere so I took no
notice of her. I walked with him even though I should have listened to her,"
said the victim.

"He claimed he didn't know her and was saying 'I didn't do it, I didn't'.

"We walked to the park in Primrose Hill and then afterwards when I asked him for
money he shouted 'what money?'.

He pulled me down to the floor and held me down. I asked him to stop. I was
crying and screaming and then he punched me on the side of my face. He said I
don't know what you are scared of. Stevie wouldn't hurt you."

After the attack, the prosecution claim, the woman ran home to tell her
boyfriend about the assault. He grabbed a cricket bat and the pair went back out
to find Nicklin.

They saw him in a telephone box and her boyfriend confronted Nicklin, hitting
him on the arm.

Defending, Christina Montgomery quizzed the victim about her police statements,
which she had not given until several weeks after the assault. It is alleged
that she lied about the timing and location, and that she lied about what she
wore and whose house she went to following the attack.

"I didn't want to get my partner into trouble for attacking that animal and I
just didn't think anything would happen from it," the victim added.

"If I had told the truth my partner would have been arrested."

(Proceeding)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Coventry Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 25, 2009 Friday

Around 27 terror suspects involved in major attacks arrested in Pakistan

LENGTH: 492 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Rawalpindi, 24 September: Inspector General [IG] of Punjab Police Tariq Saleem
Dogar said on Thursday [24 September] that some 27 terrorists allegedly involved
in different terrorists' related major incidents like attacks on Sri Lankan team
and Manawa police, Rescue 15 in Lahore have been arrested so far.

He reiterated firm resolve and commitment that elimination of terrorism, provide
public better policing facilities, end the existing police Thana culture, create
public friendly system and resolution of their problems were the prime objective
of Punjab government and police.

He expressed these views while addressing a press conference at the RPO
[Regional Police Office] office here on Thursday.

Additional Inspector General, Regional Police Officer, RPO Mohammad Aslam Tareen
and City Police Officer CPO Rao Mohammad Iqbal Khan, SP HQ [superintendent of
police, headquarter] Syed Ishtiaq Shah and other senior police officers of
Rawalpindi were also present on the occasion.

Dogar said that his visit to Rawalpindi was aimed at reviewing the performance
of police officials, evaluating the level of crime and to see how to bring the
criminals to book and arrest the proclaimed offenders.

Dogar said certain reforms were being introduced in the police department to
ensure public protection, end the police thana culture to resolve public
grievances and introduce public friendly police culture following the
instructions of Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif, he added. He urged the media and
general public to make joint efforts extend cooperation to police and law
enforcing agencies to face and combat the challenge of terrorism and crime, he
added.

IG Punjab said that protection of public life, property and honour was the
responsibility of police department.

He said dacoit activities, robbery and other street crime can be reduced or
controlled with joint efforts of police, public, committees formed at police
station and Mohallah [area] level. The media can play a vital role in this
regard, he asserted.

Responding to a question, the IG Punjab said that Hafiz Mohammad Saeed was not
in police custody, saying however, he has been advised to restrict his movement
and activities for his own safety and security.

About the terrorists' activities, he said there has been close liaison and
collaboration with the provincial police, agencies and Federal institution and
agencies to curb the terrorists and terrorism in the country. To a question
about the promotions in Police department, he clarified that promotions are
always made keeping in view the performance, service record, seniority
eligibility and abilities of the officers.

Later, the IG Punjab Tariq Saleem Dogar also addressed open public Katachri
[court] at the lawn of RPO office and listened problems of some 50 applicants.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1424gmt
24 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 25, 2009 Friday

Iran finds clues to Kordestan recent "terrorist" attacks commander

LENGTH: 229 words


Text of report in English by Iranian conservative news agency Mehr

Sanandaj, 25 September: A police official announced on Friday [25 September]
that some clues have been found about the recent terrorist attacks in Kordestan
in northwest Iran.

Clues to the recent terror attacks in Kordestan have been found and the police
will inform the public about the results of the investigations into the
incidents, deputy police chief Ahmad Reza Radan told the Mehr News Agency.

Terrorists have killed Kordestan representative at the Assembly of Experts
Mamusta Sheykholeslam, Sanandaj Friday prayers leader Mamusta Borhan'ali, and
injured two judges.

Sheykholeslam was killed on 17 Sept while he was coming out of a mosque in
Sanandaj, the capital of Kordestan province.

Borhan'ali was also assassinated on September 12. Witnesses said three
assailants attacked Borhan'ali and fled the scene right away.

Iranian Interior Minister Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar has said foreigners present in
neighbouring countries are behind the terror attacks.

The individuals who have carried out such terrorist attacks are foreign
mercenaries, Najjar explained.

He said provincial security and intelligence officials attended several meetings
on Thursday to discuss the terrors.

Najjar also said the ringleaders of the attacks have been identified.

Source: Mehr news agency, Tehran, in English 1500 gmt 25 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Yorkshire Post

                           September 25, 2009 Friday

Hero of terror attack bids for Westminster

LENGTH: 181 words



HIGHLIGHT: Airport terror attack hero John Smeaton yesterday vowed to "create
waves" in Westminster if he wins the Parliamentary seat vacated by former
Commons Speaker Michael Martin.


The 33-year-old ex-baggage handler, who tackled a suicide bomber during the 2007
Glasgow Airport terrorist attack, said he will represent the people if he wins
the Glasgow North East byelection.

Mr Smeaton said a clampdown on crime was needed because gang crime was "running
unchecked", while unemployment was "rampant".

He was grilled by journalists in his first Press conference, at a hotel in
Glasgow, at which he confirmed his intention to stand in the byelection.

He said: "My message to Glasgow North East is: vote for change or stop
complaining.

"Let us all get out on the streets and make sure everyone votes for someone who
cares and who will fight for them."

He added:  "The Labour Party have had 30 years to bring investment and jobs into
Glasgow North East. I haven't noticed much difference and I know from strolling
round the constituency that folk living there haven't noticed many changes
either.

He went on: "Well I can. And, if I'm elected, you'd better believe it: I will.

"I'll bring a storm down on Westminster, knock down doors and badger them until
they listen. No messing."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YPOS


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 26, 2009 Saturday

Afghan police adopt new security measures to prevent terror attacks in north

LENGTH: 563 words


Text of report by privately-owned Afghan Ariana TV on 25 September

[Presenter] The Afghan Interior Ministry has adopted strict security measures to
prevent terrorist attacks in the northern provinces. The ministry spokesman
spoke of the presence of groups affiliated to Tohir Yoldosh, a senior member of
Al-Qa'idah, in the northern provinces. The ministry spokesman said the
insurgents' activities were not very extensive or far-reaching but were still a
matter of concern for the government and that there was a need for strict
measures to stop them. Abdul Wakil Naibi has a report on this:

[Correspondent] Interior Ministry spokesman Zmaray Bashari says pressure from
the government and international forces on insurgents in the southern provinces
forced the Taleban to move to the northern provinces and increase their
anti-government activities there. He said the Taleban wanted the government to
shift the focus from the southern to northern provinces. The Interior Ministry
spokesman added that the activities of insurgents were focused on highways in
the north and that they had not yet been able to expand their activities to all
provinces in the north. He indicated that the anti-government groups did not
have the power to fight face-to-face war with the Afghan and international
forces. However, they are disrupting the security situation from time to time
[he said].

[Interior Ministry spokesman in Dari] Criminal and insurgent groups that carry
out anti-government activities are not in a position to fight the government and
international forces directly. They are not considered a big security threat to
the north. They only carry out small-scale attacks on convoys, highways, schools
and some security checkpoints. Insurgents' activities are not yet widespread or
far-reaching. However, the government is determined to take a series of strict
measures to stop insurgents' activities.

[Correspondent] Mr Bashari spoke about new measures by the Interior Ministry and
said the ministry was reviewing its security plans in the north and would deploy
additional police forces in vulnerable and strategic areas in the north. The
Interior Ministry spokesman talked about the presence of groups affiliated to
Tohir Yoldosh, a senior member of Al-Qa'idah, in the northern provinces. He said
the intelligence services were working to determine the number of people or
groups affiliated to Al-Qa'idah.

[Interior Ministry spokesman in Dari] We have received some reports about the
presence of groups affiliated to Tohir Yoldosh. Our intelligence services are
working hard to determine the number and whereabouts of these groups. We have no
precise reports on the number of groups or their exact whereabouts. All efforts
are under way to find out about the activities of these groups so that we can
take the required actions.

[Correspondent] It is important to note that there has been an increase in
insurgents' activities in the north, in particular, in Konduz Province. The
increase in insurgents' activities has caused concern among the people who want
the government to take serious actions against insurgency. Reportedly, most of
the insurgents are members of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan fighting under
Tohir Yoldosh. Konduz, Baghlan and Fariab have been the scene of Taleban-led
militancy over the past couple of months.

Source: Ariana TV, Kabul, in Dari 1630 gmt 25 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                          September 26, 2009 Saturday

Coroner attacks failings over 'terrorised' family

BYLINE: Theo Usherwood and Ellen Branagh PA

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 460 words


A coroner attacked authorities yesterday over failings while dealing with a
family who were terrorised by a gang of youths.

Fiona Pilkington (38) was driven to such despair by the 16-strong gang that she
drove to a secluded lay-by and set her car alight while she and her disabled
daughter Francecca Hardwick sat inside.

Yesterday at the pair's inquest Coroner Olivia Davison asked why social workers
had never sat down with a family "over a cup of tea" and discussed their
problems.

Their blue Austin Maestro was found burnt out at the side of the A47 near their
home in Barwell, Leicestershire, on October 23 2007.

Ms Pilkington made her last report of intimidation by a gang of youths on the
day she died, a jury at Loughborough Town Hall was told.

The inquest heard Leicestershire County Council launched a serious-case review
into the way the authorities handled the care of Ms Pilkington, her teenage
daughter and severely dyslexic son Anthony, now 19.

The family were "under siege" in their home but police filed the incidents as
less serious "grade two" matters and considered her to be "over-reacting".

The review found there were a number of failings including a failure by
Leicestershire Police, the county council and Hinckley and Bosworth Borough
Council to share information about the family, their disabilities and the abuse
they were receiving from the gang - some as young as 10.

Questioning Mick Connell, director of adult services at the county council, Ms
Davison asked whether the deaths could have been prevented by a social worker
taking the time to sit down with the family and listen to their problems.

Ms Davison said: "If somebody had sat this woman (Ms Pilkington) down with a cup
of tea they could have perhaps helped her.

"It seems to me if you want to help somebody you need to understand what they
are dealing with and listen to them and get information from them and that's
probably best done by talking to them.

"I have never done any social work and I wonder why it has taken a serious-case
review to get to this point. You need to sit down with people to get information
from them and I wonder why that wasn't something that occurred here."

The inquest heard that the serious case review had made five recommendations:

- to expand the definition of who can be classed as a vulnerable adult to make
it broader

- investigate the impact of anti-social behaviour on people's lives and provide
more explicit information about the level of risk from such behaviour to certain
people

- to provide more accurate information and share that information between the
police, councils and health workers

- those dealing with complaints should read the situation from the victims'
point of view.

The jury will return on Monday when it is expected to retire.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                          September 26, 2009 Saturday
                                 2 Star Edition

BUS DRIVER IN '7/7 STYLE ATTACK' RAP;
TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 117 words


AN AFGHAN immigrant has been accused of posing the biggest threat to America
since 9/11 by plotting a bomb attack on New York.

Bus driver Najibullah Zazi, 24, has been indicted on charges of conspiracy to
use weapons of mass destruction.

He allegedly bought large amounts of hydrogen peroxide and nail-polish remover -
items that were used to make explosives in the 2005 London bombings.

Investigators say they found bomb-making instructions on his computer and
believe Zazi received explosives training from al-Qaeda. After Zazi's arrest
last week, Attorney General Eric Holder said: "We believe any imminent threat
arising from this case has been disrupted."

Zazi and his lawyer have denied he is a terrorist.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 28, 2009 Monday
                              North Wales Edition

HOW I FOUGHT OFF SLEDGE HAMMER RAIDERS;
Masked robbers pin grandad, 63, to wall in terror attack on bookies

BYLINE: KELLY BARKER

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 60 words


A 63-YEAR-OLD wrested a sledgehammer from masked robbers in a terrifying attack.

Two raiders pinned John Fletcher against a wall and threatened him with the
weapon as they demanded cash from his bookmakers in Wrexham.

But he grappled it from them and chased them down the street. Police are hunting
the pair, who struck wearing balaclavas.

FULL STORY PAGE 7

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  John Fletcher chased armed raiders from his bookmakers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           September 29, 2009 Tuesday

Fishermen in Pakistan's Karachi fear terror attack

LENGTH: 728 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 29 September

Karachi: Islands community activists have expressed fears for the local
fishermen as movement of unidentified people into the vicinity has been
witnessed due to lack of security along the Karachi Fish Harbour (KFH).

President Bona Fide Boat Owners and Fishermen Welfare Association Asif Bhatti
based at Bhit Island told The News that the recently foiled terrorist bid near
Keamari Oil Terminal compound justifies the issues raised earlier through a
letter written to Sindh chief secretary, demanding effective security measures
along the entire channel from KFH to Manora to thwart any possibility of such
incidents. The letter was also sent to other relevant authorities to persuade
them to tighten security to avoid any chance of attacks near this sensitive
zone. The News possesses a copy of the letter dated April 9, 2009 and has learnt
that it has also been sent to the Home Department, Maritime Security Agency,
Chairperson Karachi Port Trust, Commander Navy, Secretary Fisheries Department
and local union council nazim.

"We mentioned in the letter that the movement of certain illegal people is
apparent as the association frequently receives complaints of fishing tools
getting stolen from boats anchored along the local island jetties and the
harbour. If the authorities concerned fail to control the situation, these
people may reach the island localities, trap some greedy elements and use the
area for unlawful activities," Bhatti warned.

"There are sensitive installations along the channel but there is no check on
the people coming there. Apart from this, no identity cards have been issued by
the Karachi Fish Harbour Association (KFHA) for the people associated with
institutions housed in the harbour premises," the letter stated.

Bhatti said that the concerned government bodies never paid heed to their
complaints and fears, and terrorists had reached the target area, but foiled. At
present, there is no security and no check on outsiders coming in to the entire
channel.

The community activists say that whenever a terrorist incident occurs, local
fishermen become victims of security agencies which involve them in the
interrogation process, depriving fishermen of their livelihood activities.

He said that when the Mumbai incident occurred, the fishermen were terrorized by
certain forces. And after the recent incident at the Keamari Terminal, the
community people are being compelled to show their crew cards and boat
documents, which wastes their time unnecessarily while travelling for their
livelihood activities.

"Fishermen are law-abiding citizens and the government's security forces should
tighten the security at entry and exit points to thwart any possibility of
terrorist attacks, instead of harassing the community," he said, adding that
security measures must be taken inside the harbour to ensure that the boats
coming from the sea did not carry mysterious people onboard.

There are no clearance documents for the people running small boats in the
channel. These boats operate at night carrying unknown people, which may
sometimes create a security risk. The fishermen have been settled at the islands
for long and in case of any emergency the community may have to face a lot of
problems. The activists expressed fears that the community people might have to
be involved in unnecessary, unfair interrogation if such a situation arises.
Therefore, the government should tighten security before any blame falls on the
community.

The same non-government welfare body had sent another letter to the Director
General Maritime Security Agency (MSA) on September 9, requesting that the
fishermen have cards issued by relevant government agencies, KFHA, Karachi Port
Trust (KPT), Customs and others so that the local workforce can be identified
properly.

The letter states that the boats have a list of the crew prepared by KFHA, but,
at times, due to different reasons, the community boat owners change crew
members. This is an age old tradition, they said.

Therefore, it was argued, there should be no question of checking the crew list
and creating problems for the workers. The body appealed to government
authorities to tighten their security at relevant jurisdictions and avoid
blaming the innocent community people.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 29 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 30, 2009 Wednesday

Algerian, Malian forces reportedly attack terrorist strongholds in Sahara

LENGTH: 596 words


Text of report by privately-owned Algerian newspaper El-Khabar website on 29
September

Algerian and Malian forces have launched a mortar and air attack, the most
violent of its kind, against specific sites in the region of Adghagh Afogars
[name as transliterated]. The size of the air and missile force used in the
bombardment confirms that the expected major military operation has begun in
northern Mali.

On another plane, a terrorist belonging to the Sahara emirate group which is
part of Al-Qa-'idah in the Maghreb, has turned himself in to the Algerian
security forces at the border with northern Mali. He is called B Abdelkader.
This 40 year old terrorist is one of the old members of the armed Islamic group.
He originally comes from the town of El Minia, in the Ghardaia governorate.
Abdelkader carried arms under the command of five terrorist emirs, including
Belmokhtar, Abou Talha El Janoubi, in Laghouat, and finally Abdelhamid Abouzaid.
Earlier reports spoke about Abdelkader surrendering to the Malian army at the
borders with Mauritania, but this was denied by Algerian sources.

Moreover, early this week, eyewitnesses coming from the village of Tagharba,
northern Mali, said that helicopters and military aircraft were seen flying on
the heights of the Adghagh Afogars region. Local inhabitants of this village
heard the noise of explosions, and a security source said that there has been
air bombardment in several areas in northern Mali following reports that a
terrorist group composed of an unknown number of people was seen in Adghagh
Afogars.

Our source refused to confirm or deny the participation of Algerian military
aircraft in the wave of bombardment that is thought to have started about four
days ago. However, the source said that the assessment of the losses in the
ranks of the terrorists is the responsibility of the Malian side.

In this context, there were signs suggesting that the expected major military
operation against Al-Qa'idah hordes has indeed begun. These signs include the
fact that the Touareg rebels have been consigned to pre-arranged locations in
Kaidal region, to avoid losses in their ranks. Also, the Belmokhtar group moved
closer to the Algerian borders, after he declared his intention to turn himself
in to the Algerian forces. Likewise, Algerian airmen have been transferred to
the sixth military region in Tamanrasset, directly after 'Id al-Fitr [end of
Ramadan].

However, a senior security source told Al-Khabar that media reports about an
extensive military operation against the Al-Qa'idah strongholds in the Sahel are
exaggerated as all military experts know that undertaking large-scale military
operations in an immense desert against an unknown and hiding enemy is not
possible. What is happening now is what we can call pursuit, control and hunting
operations, with the participation of land and air forces that carry out
successive and continuous raids over several months against sites suspected of
housing ammunition depots or underground hideouts. There is also control of
supply roads used by terrorist groups. After this operation there will be a
stage where the terrorists will be denied stability, with the help of local
populations who pursue them and monitor their movements.

In this respect, security in the Sahara has been under control with the
cooperation of transhumant Bedouins. This is part of a long-term program aimed
at developing the border and Saharan regions in the north of Mali and Niger.
Algeria has contributed materially to this program.

Source: El-Khabar website, Algiers, in Arabic 29 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday

Somali Islamist said planning terror attacks in Somaliland, Puntland

LENGTH: 270 words


Text of report by Somali independent Radio Gaalkacyo on 30 September

A senior official of Al-Shabab Islamic Movement has announced that the movement
is currently involved in plans to carry out major attacks in Puntland and
Somaliland administrations.

The official, Shaykh Fu'ad Muhammad Khalaf aka Fu'aad Shongolo, made this
statement while speaking to hundreds of people during a sermon at Abu-Hurayra
Mosque in Mogadishu's Bakaaraha Market. He accused Somaliland and Puntland of
not applying the shari'ah law in their administrations, adding that they must be
uprooted through attacks.

The official stated that Ethiopian government indirectly rules the two
administrations, and stressed that Somaliland has already allowed its port in
Berbera to be used by Ethiopia.

Reliable sources say that most of those who attended the sermon were members of
Al-Shabab and businessmen who support the movement.

He also said that the ongoing fighting between his group and African
Union-backed Somali government forces will continue until they impose shari'ah
law in the country. He also stated that they will also topple the government of
[President] Shaykh Sharif Shaykh Ahmad.

The leader of Al-Shabab, Shaykh Mukhtar Abdirahman, aka Abu Zubeyr had earlier
made similar threat against Somaliland. There are also reports claiming that
Al-Shabab is planning to capture Puntland.

Simultaneous bomb attacks in Somaliland and Puntland claimed the lives of about
30 people last year. Puntland residents have expressed concern over the threat
made by Al-Shabab against their region.

Source: Radio Gaalkacyo, Gaalkacyo, in Somali 1015 gmt 30 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 1, 2009 Thursday

Jordanian court overrules sentence in "terror" attacks case

LENGTH: 343 words


Text of report by Jordanian Islamic newspaper Al-Sabil on 30 September

[Report by Tariq al-Nu'aymat: "Court of Cassation Overrules Al-Jayussi's Life
Sentence at Hard Labour for the Third Time"]

The Court of Cassation has overruled a life sentence of hard labour for the
leader of a group called the "Monotheism Brigades," which is affiliated with
Al-Qa'idah group in Bilad al-Rafidayn [Mesopotamia], for plotting an attempted
attack on the headquarters of the intelligence department in April 2004.

According to the court's ruling, "the State Security Court [SSC] erred in its
decision on the previous sentence, and it should have processed the case in
light of the Court of Cassation's ruling."

Moreover, "the investigative process is null and void, and the SSC is not
concerned with reviewing this case based on Article 12 of the Explosives Law."

The ruling goes on to say: "The confessions of the suspects are invalid, as they
were not a result of free well but were extracted under coercion."

Musa al-Abdallat, Al-Jayussi's defence lawyer, comments: "The SSC has not abided
by the Court of Cassation's sentence, contrary to the emphasis by the General
Assembly of the Court of Cassation to abide by the rulings of the Court of
Cassation, which has jurisdiction over this matter."

The SSC attorney general has indicted the suspects on charges of plotting to
execute terror attacks, possession of unauthorized explosives to be used
illegally, manufacturing unauthorized explosive material, affiliation with an
illegal organization - the Monotheism Brigades - and withholding a person who
committed a felony and assisting in his escape from justice.

According to the charges, the suspects have been preparing to execute operations
targeting the intelligence department headquarters and the Prime Ministry
through suicide attacks using six different cars and half a trailer, and the
purchasing 332 kilograms of nitroglycerine explosives and preparing it in 1,500
gallon containers, which were obtained from the local market.

Source: Al-Sabil, Amman, in Arabic 30 Sep 09

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                      October 1, 2009 Thursday 2:45 AM BST

TURKEY AGREES £1m COMPENSATION FOR TERROR ATTACK BRITONS

BYLINE: Dave Higgens, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 561 words


A family injured in a terror attack while on holiday in Turkey has secured more
than £1 million in compensation.

Sharon Holden, the mother of a woman who died in the bomb blast, believes the
award is the first time a foreign government had paid out such a sum to British
terror victims.

But Mrs Holden, from Spennymoor, County Durham, said no amount of cash would
compensate for the loss of her daughter, Helyn Bennett.

Miss Bennett, 21, also from Spennymoor, was among five people killed when an
explosion ripped through a minibus packed with tourists in the popular resort of
Kusadasi in July 2005.

Her fiance Stephen Stables, 23, her then 16-year-old brother Adam Megoran, aunt
Toni Punshon, cousin Sam Punshon, then 14, and Ms Punshon's partner, Michael
Aspinall, were also seriously injured in the blast.

Mrs Holden and her husband Tommy escaped the carnage because they had taken a
boat trip to Greece.

The force of the blast blew the vehicle's roof 20 to 30 yards into the grounds
of a neighbouring hotel.

Last night Mrs Holden said the Turkish authorities had agreed more than £1
million in compensation for her family, but said she still did not know the
exact figure.

She said she would continue to campaign for a change to the British system which
meant only the victims of terror attacks in the UK were entitled to compensation
from the Government.

Mrs Holden said: ``I don't know whether to laugh or cry at the moment.

``I would give every penny back if it meant having Helyn back.

``I'm pleased that the money is there to help them all, especially the lads,
Adam and Sam.

``Hopefully they will be able to set themselves up.''

Mrs Holden said all those injured in Kusadasi were still having problems with
their health and their memories of that day.

She said Mr Aspinall still had to make regular visits to hospital and her sister
suffered from nerve damage and had to take a range of tablets every day.

Asked about the British compensation scheme, Mrs Holden said: ``We haven't had
any help off of our government. We've been going on about it for
three-and-a-half years now and something has to be done.''

Mrs Holden praised the work of her solicitor, Jill Greenfield.

Earlier, Ms Greenfield told Channel 4 News there was a Turkish compensation
scheme already in existence but it held out the prospect of just a few thousand
pounds for the family.

She said: ``The view was taken that, actually, this just wasn't good enough,
that this family deserved more financial support, more recognition of what had
happened to them. So we decided to actually change the scheme itself.''

In June, Mrs Holden travelled to Turkey to face the man accused of planting the
bomb which killed her daughter.

But she said at the time she was devastated after the trial of the suspected
bomber was adjourned for three months.

The accused, known by the initials MSF, was arrested in April 2006 on suspicion
of murder.

He is accused of belonging to the PKK organisation, also known as the Kurdistan
Workers' Party and conspiracy to commit further terrorist acts on the Turkish
mainland.

Mrs Holden, 44, said she was ``completely devastated'' that the trial did not go
ahead but said that seeing the man accused of killing her daughter across a
court room had helped her move on from the tragedy.

It was the first time that Mrs Holden, of South Street, Spennymoor, had returned
to Turkey since the bombing.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 6, 2009 Tuesday

Pakistan minister warns of more terror attacks

LENGTH: 158 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 6 October: Interior Minister Rehman Malik has warned that terrorists
could carry out more attacks across the country, despite preventive measures
taken by the government.

According to Geo News [private TV channel], Malik said action against specific
targets of Mehsud group of Taleban is underway and vowed to expand the scope of
action, if the need arises.

Elaborating, he said Taleban leadership in a recent Swat meeting had decided to
resume fresh attacks after Id whereas terrorists of Waziristan had also vowed to
avenge Baitullah Mehsud's killing. Therefore, terrorists could carry out more
attacks countrywide.

Rehman Malik said no one would be allowed to challenge the government's writ and
warned the terrorists to leave the country or get ready to face the
consequences.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1049gmt
06 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Belfast News

                            October 6, 2009 Tuesday

Coleraine woman speaks of attack terror

LENGTH: 475 words



HIGHLIGHT: A COLERAINE woman has spoken of her terror after her home was
targeted by rioting thugs following an outbreak of violence at the weekend.


Police came under attack by youths throwing missiles after trouble flared in the
Killowen Street area around 8pm.

A 45-year-old man has been arrested on charges of assaulting police and
disorderly behaviour and is to appear at the town's magistrates court on October
26.

Around half an hour after the trouble flared, Carol Logue, 52, was in the
sitting room of her home in Winston Way, which is in the Killowen area, with her
daughter when she heard a smashing sound in one of her bedrooms.

She rushed upstairs to find that a brick had been thrown through one of the
windows, smashing double glazed glass and damaging a wardrobe on the other side
of the room.

No one was hurt in the incident, but Ms Logue said that it could have been so
different.

"I have a granddaughter who is two and she sleeps in this room," she said.

"If she had been there she would have been destroyed. She stayed here last
Sunday night."

She said that the police arrived, as did her family and friends to offer
support, but she admitted she was still "shaking like a leaf" over what had
happened.

Ms Logue said it was the second time her home has been targeted in such an
attack since the murder of Catholic father Kevin McDaid, who was beaten to death
near his home in the Heights area of the town in May.

"I've lived here for years and never had any bother in my life, but since the
death of Kevin McDaid it has escalated from that.

"When I say I live in Killowen people think it's a bad area but it's very quiet
and I have good neighbours. Innocent people are being targeted."

Ms Logue insisted she will not be forced to move from the area.

"I have been here a long time and I don't intend to move.

"But I don't know where this is going to end. I just hope that it's not a petrol
bomb the next night."

Police have said they are treating the incident as sectarian and believe it was
linked to the earlier disorder that broke out in Killowen Street.

According to local DUP councillor Maurice Bradley, Sunday night's violence broke
out after Celtic fans coming back from watching a match with Rangers "got tanked
up on alcohol and fell out amongst themselves before turning on the PSNI".

And he said that both Protestants and Catholics living in the Heights area were
"sick, sore and tired" of such incidents.

"Thuggery, drug-dealing, anti-social behaviour and criminality are being carried
on by a small minority holding this entire community to ransom," he said.

Also condemning the violence was Alliance councillor Barney Fitzpatrick.

"Given the events of recent months in the town this attack is particularly
worrying," he said.

"Those involved achieved absolutely nothing by attacking those who are trying to
protect the local community."

In other incidents, at 12.30am on Monday, the occupants of a house at Shuttle
Hill in Coleraine discovered that a window of their home had also been broken.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BELF


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Edinburgh News

                            October 6, 2009 Tuesday

Forces plan for terror attacks

LENGTH: 33 words



HIGHLIGHT: EMERGENCY services and the armed forces are this week taking part in
an exercise to help them prepare for terrorist attacks.


Exercise Border Fist began on Monday and runs until Friday at various sites
around Edinburgh.

Helicopters circled South Queensferry yesterday, with one landing in the car
park of Agilent Technologies.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EN


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Gravesend Messenger

                                October 8, 2009

Taxi driver tells of terror in attack caught on CCTV

LENGTH: 548 words


by Danny Boyle

dboyle@thekmgroup.co.uk

A TAXI driver has spoken for the first time of how he feared he would not see
his young children grow up when he was being strangled in a brutal attack in his
own cab.

As Steve West plucks up the confidence to return to night work after two thugs
were jailed for the merciless assault, he reveals how he thought he was going to
die.

In his first interview, the 46-year-old told the Messenger he wore sunglasses
when with his children to shield them from injuries that left him barely
recognisable.

Gavin Clark, 21, and Stephen Richardson, 34, were each jailed for 18 months in
September after their assault was captured on CCTV cameras in Mr West's cab.

The Phoenix Taxis driver was on his way home, looking forward to a family
holiday in Cyprus, when the pair wrongly blamed him for hitting another man who
drunkenly stumbled into the road in Perry Street, Northfleet, at about 10.30pm
on April 24. They left him covered in blood, with black eyes, cuts, bruises and
a footprint on the back of his head in an attack described by a judge as
"merciless and wicked".

Mr West, who lives in a Gravesham village with his partner and two girls, aged
three and nine, said: "I couldn't get the guy's hands away from my throat and I
thought I was going to die.

"I remember seeing so many people outside my window, some of them wincing and
some turning away, and I started thinking about my children because really I
thought it was the end.

"I blacked out and my next recollection is getting up off the floor where I had
my head stamped on."

Mr West - who grew up in Gravesend and whose parents, brother and two sisters
still live in the town - will only now pick up customers from the rank rather
than just telephone bookings.

And having returned to evening work only a fortnight ago, the taxi driver of
eight years makes sure he is always ready to drive away.

He said: "I lost a lot of confidence and found it a real struggle when I first
went back to work. I'm obviously a lot more cautious about who I pick up, but I
have no choice not to work - life goes on.

"The threat of an attack will always be there, but you can't let them win. I
don't have much feeling towards my attackers, but I hope the convictions act as
a deterrent to anybody else thinking of attacking a taxi driver."

STEVE WEST'S attack led to the first prosecution using footage from CCTV cameras
installed in all Gravesham cabs after the murder of grandfather Gian Chand
Bajar.

The equipment was brought in after the 71-year-old was killed by 20-year-old
Luke Aujila in May 2007.

It provided damning evidence which led Clark, of Snelling Road Northfleet, and
Richardson, of Greenhill Road, Greenhithe, to admit assault causing actual
bodily harm in Mr West's case.

He said: "All the witnesses in my case said they wouldn't have been able to
identify the attackers, so the CCTV did its job in this case.

"Obviously, it didn't prevent my attack, but it certainly helped bring the
people who committed this crime to justice."

Mr West added: "The support from the drivers has been amazing. Guys who I've
never spoken to before have come up to me and said how sorry they were over what
happened.

"Some of the guys who have been in the game for 20 or 30 years have said they
now think twice about who they pick up."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             October 9, 2009 Friday

Mass-goers terrorised in firework attack

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 272 words


Some people screamed in terror as the loud bang shattered evening Mass prayer at
Glenbrohane Church.

Fr John Ryan who was celebrating Mass at the time said it was a despicable and
violent attack on God, the house of worship and local community. A
quick-thinking parishioner managed to defuse the firework.

Fr Ryan said: "For a moment everyone was wondering what was happening and were
terrorised. Only for one member of the congregation stamping on it, anything
could have happened. It was a shocking attack   a new low level in behaviour."
The incident happened during 8pm Mass last Saturday.

"The collection box had just gone around when the firework was thrown in the
door into the gallery," one eyewitness said. "People didn't know if it was gun
shots, a bomb or what. The priest stopped Mass and said a few words. He got a
big shock. It's a sad situation when people no longer feel safe when they to
Mass," the eye-witness said.

Local councillor, Eddie Ryan also condemned the attack. "It's unbelievable that
somebody would do such a thing... Thankfully nobody was injured." Gardaí at
Bruff are investigating.

And in another attack at the parish church in Caherconlish, a person defecated
in a confession box and then wiped their soiled hands on the altar cloth.

"I saw all the stuff on the cloth when I was saying Mass," Curate Fr Danny
O'Gorman said. "It wasn't seen until I was coming back from giving out
Communion. There were marks on the cloth and it was only when we investigated we
found out what it was. It was shocking."

Fr O'Gorman said the person must have serious personal issues. "They're more to
be pitied than anything."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Kent Messenger

                                October 9, 2009

Rapist admits terror attack on woman in home

LENGTH: 291 words


A BURGLAR raped a terrified woman at knifepoint after breaking into her home, a
court heard.

James Donoghue was committing his second burglary of the day in the Fant area of
Maidstone, on July 14, when he was interrupted by the victim.

Trapped

Eleanor Laws, prosecuting, said Donoghue, 42, threatened the woman, aged 30,
with the knife and took degrading photographs of her, Miss Laws told Maidstone
Crown Court this week.

Donoghue sexually assaulted her and went on to rape her.

He attempted to remove evidence that would link him to the attack, but was
trapped by DNA left behind on a glove.

"He entered another property and washed himself and had a bath," said the
prosecutor. "He was arrested shortly afterwards.

"He denied the offences for some time, even after DNA evidence was provided to
him.

"After hearing the complainant in distress in a 999 call, he brought the
(police) interview to an end and admitted most of what took place."

Slightly built and balding Donoghue, of no address, admitted two charges of
rape, one of sexual assault and two of burglary. Miss Laws said further
consideration would be given to a second sexual assault charge which Donoghue
denied.

The basis on which he entered his pleas would also be considered.

"It is a very serious case," added Miss Laws.

Chequered history

Keith Middleton, defending, said Donoghue had a very chequered history.

"He has lost something like three stone since being remanded," he said.

"He is not in the best shape. He is under huge stress."

Judge Martin Joy called for psychiatric and probation reports.

He adjourned the case until October 19 for a further hearing.

Remanding Donoghue in custody, he said: "He has pleaded guilty to a very grave
matter. A lengthy custodial sentence appears inevitable."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 KM Media Group Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 10, 2009 Saturday

GHQ attack shows Pakistan must fight terror in own interest - India minister

LENGTH: 362 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 10 October: India on Saturday [10 October] asked Pakistan to be
"sincere" in acting against terror groups on its soil in its own interest and
"not to satisfy India".

Defence Minister of India A.K. Antony told reporters here on the sidelines of an
international flight safety conference that Pakistan "has to contain" terrorists
operating from its soil.

"India is telling always that unless they (Pakistanis) act sincerely (against
terrorists) there is no solution. Still they are not sincere. That is the
problem," Antony said.

The defence minister was reacting to reporters' queries on the suspected role of
Pakistan's intelligence agency ISI [Inter-Services Intelligence] in the terror
attack on the Indian embassy in Afghanistan's capital Kabul a couple of days
ago.

India, he said, had already taken up the matter "seriously" through the normal
channels.

On Saturday's terror attack on Pakistan Army headquarters in Rawalpindi, Antony
said: "This again shows that Pakistan should take determined and strong action
against terrorists."

He said: "It is not to satisfy India, but it is in their own interest. They
(Pakistanis) have to contain and take strong action against terrorists operating
from their country."

Asked about his coming Russia visit, Antony said the purpose was to expand the
scope of defence cooperation between the two countries.

"Russia has been a trusted friend of India over the years. In 1998, we signed an
agreement India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission for Military Technical
Cooperation (IRIGC-MTC) for 10 years. The commission is co-chaired by both
Indian and Russian defence ministers. Last year the meeting took place in
Russia. This time I am going to Russia for the meeting," he said.

The two nations would discuss a wide range of defence cooperation issues, he
said adding, the focus would be on extending the IRIGC-MTC agreement by another
10 years from 2011 to 2020.

To a query on the Admiral Gorshkov aircraft carrier price negotiations, Antony
said talks were going on and the negotiations were yet to be concluded.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1337gmt 10 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 10, 2009 Saturday

Eight to ten terrorists involved in GHQ attack - military

LENGTH: 190 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad: The Director General of Pakistan's Inter Services Public Relations
(ISPR), Maj. Gen. Athar Abbas, said late Saturday night [10 October] that eight
to ten terrorists were involved in the General Headquarter attack.

Talking to media, he said that according to preliminary investigations "it looks
that about eight to ten terrorists were involved in the GHQ attack."

He added that security forces had killed four terrorists while four to five of
them escaped from the scene and took shelter in a nearby security office.

He said all terrorists were dressed up in camouflage uniform, who were riding a
Suzuki van bearing army number, attacked Checkpost No 1.

Later, they headed towards Checkpost No 2 where they were again intercepted by
security forces. The DG ISPR added that four to five terrorists were present in
the security office building near checkpost No.2 have taken hostage about 10 to
15 civilians working there.

He said the security forces have surrounded the area.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 1651 gmt
10 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 11, 2009 Sunday

GHQ attack terrorist commander arrested - Pakistan army

LENGTH: 92 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad: The security forces have arrested the commander of terrorist squad
which attacked Pakistan Army General Headquarters on Saturday and kept 28
security personnel hostage in the security office.

According to a senior official of ISPR [Inter Services Public Relation], the
injured terrorist commander identified as Aqil has been arrested and shifted to
an unidentified well secured place.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0425gmt
11 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 11, 2009 Sunday

Indian PM discusses Kabul terror attack with Afghan president

LENGTH: 169 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

New Delhi, 10 October: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Saturday [10 October]
spoke to Afghan President Hamed Karzai and discussed the situation arising out
of Thursday's attack on the Indian embassy in Kabul.

Singh expressed deep sorrow over the death of 17 Afghans in the attack on the
Indian embassy and offered to arrange for medical treatment of the critically
wounded, official sources said.

The two leaders discussed the situation in the aftermath of the attack.

India may also announce assistance to the families of two Afghan policemen
constables Alam Khan and Mohammad Usman whose alertness prevented a greater
catastrophe as they prevented the explosives-laden vehicle from gaining access
to the Embassy gate.

The prime minister's telephonic talk with Karzai came hours after Foreign
Secretary Nirupama Rao returned from Kabul after a two-day visit to take stock
of the situation in the wake of the blast.

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1737gmt 10 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 12, 2009 Monday

Pakistan paper says GHQ attackers "highly trained" terrorists

LENGTH: 812 words


Text of report by Zaffar Abbas headlined "There are no "good" militants"
published by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 11 October

Islamabad: The band of armed terrorists that made its way through the outer
security ring of the GHQ complex knew they will not be able to come out alive
from the heavily guarded military headquarters. Yet they were not suicide
bombers. Neither were they wearing suicide jackets nor was the vehicle they were
travelling in packed with explosives.

Caught in a highly tricky hostage situation, the security agencies may take a
while in revealing the identities of the attackers or the group they belonged
to. But one thing is clear: these were no 'misguided youngsters' indoctrinated
by fanatics to carry out suicide attacks.

They were highly trained terrorists who excelled in the art of making an impact
through their armed attack on a chosen target.

If there are similarities they are with last year's attacks on the police
training centre at Manawa, near Lahore, and the attempt to take Sri Lankan
cricketers hostage in the Punjab capital.

In both those incidents, groups of highly trained and motivated armed men
launched attacks with a view to inflicting heavy damage, take a few hostages,
and either die while attempting to do so or escape.

Compared with the 'suicide attack' in Pakistani 'jihadi' parlance, such terror
operations are often referred to as 'fidayeen attacks'. The description is often
reflective of differences in religious beliefs.

A couple of extremist groups believe 'suicide bombing' was not as holy as the
'fidayeen attack' since in the latter case, the person instead of blowing
himself up dies while fighting his adversary.

These two strands of Islamic militant movement had become quite obvious at the
height of the armed insurgency in Indian-held Kashmir.

It is also a preferred method amongst a couple of sectarian militant groups or
those involved in Afghanistan, although they also use suicide bombing as one of
the tactics against their opponents.

Some of the Pakistan-based pro-Kashmir groups, after being banned or declared
terrorist organizations in the post-9/11 scenario, instead of completely winding
up their operations or disbanding, either split up or turned against the
Pakistani government and the security establishment.

Since then a series of terrorist attacks away from the border region and within
Pakistan were the work of these enraged but highly trained militants.

These terror strikes also included a series of organized attacks against the
then president and the army chief General Pervez Musharraf, who was accused by
the religious extremists of being the main obstacle in the way of what many
militants believed was a 'jihad'.

During this period such splinter factions also started regrouping, re-align and
reorganise, mainly by finding refuge in places like Waziristan and Malakand.
Some parts of southern Punjab also emerged as sanctuaries of such militants and
a new nexus was created between Al Qa'idah, the Afghan Taleban, and tribal
militants in the form of Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan and the so-called Punjabi
Taleban.

It was also during this period when one started to hear names of all kinds of
groups from Harkatul Mujhaideen al-Alami during 2002 and 2003 to groups like
Jamia Hafsa Brigade in the Malakand region. And if a claim made by one of the
callers to a private channel holds any weight, a new group calling itself
Tehrik-i-Taleban (Amjad Farooqui group) was behind the latest attack. Farooqui
was the mastermind of one of the major attacks on Gen Musharraf in Dec 2003 and
was later killed in a bloody clash with security forces in Nawabshah.

Factions of Lashkar-i-Jhangvi and Jaish-i-Mohammed have also joined ranks with
the Waziristan-based TTP, mainly to use their territory to carry out attacks
within Pakistan. They are also the groups who have within them a large number of
people who have come to be known as the 'Punjabi Taleban', and have direct links
with militants in various parts of the country, stretching from Islamabad to
Karachi.

Many of them are highly trained former 'jihadis' from the conflict zones of
Kashmir and Afghanistan, often preferring to fight it out rather then blowing
themselves up in suicide attacks.

A few cells of such 'fidayeen' groups were busted by the military and civilian
intelligence agencies in recent weeks in Rawalpindi and Islamabad. But it seems
there are still a few active or sleeper cells, determined to carry out attacks
at an opportune moment.

Perhaps the attack on the GHQ may prove to be a watershed that compels the
security and civilian establishment, as well as most of the opposition groups,
to realise that the time to distinguish between 'good' and 'bad' religious
militants or Taleban was over, and a consensus was needed to confront all such
groups as enemies of the state.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 11 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 12, 2009 Monday

Team formed to probe terror attack on Pakistan army HQ

LENGTH: 326 words


Text of report headlined "Investigators' team formed, CCTV footage reviewed"
published by Pakistan newspaper Dawn website on 12 October

Rawalpindi, Oct 11: A joint investigation team has been formed to probe into the
terrorist attack on the army's General Headquarters (GHQ) in which eight
security personnel and at least nine militants were killed over the weekend,
officials said on Sunday [11 October].

Several soldiers were also wounded while one injured militant was arrested
during the military operation.

The team, led by City Police Officer Rao Mohammad Iqbal, includes Senior
Superintendent of Police (SSP) Operations Yasin Farooq, SP [Superintendent of
Police] Crime Investigation Agency (CIA), SP Potohar Division, SP Rawal
Division, SP Investigation and SP Crime Investigation Department (CID) Punjab.

The team formed by Regional Police Officer Rawalpindi Mohammad Aslam Tareen held
its meeting here on Sunday.

Meanwhile, the First Information Report (FIR) [police complaint] of the incident
was registered with the R.A. Bazaar police under the anti-terrorism act and
other relevant sections of the law. The FIR was immediately sealed by the
police.

As part of the investigation, footage from the Close Circuit Television (CCTV)
cameras installed along The Mall had also been examined by the investigators. It
showed that 10 gunmen dressed in army uniforms reached the General Headquarters
first check post in a white van and tried to force their way towards the
complex.

It showed that four attackers fired on the security officials and lobbed hand
grenades. Others took position and started moving towards the complex,
pretending as if they were hitting the terrorist present at the check post.

The record of cellphone calls made by the terrorist group members has also been
obtained by the investigators, while the original registration number of the van
used in the terrorist attack was being sought.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 12 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  London Lite

                            October 12, 2009 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A vision of hell in Tube disaster training exercise;
FORENSIC TEAMS PREPARE FOR ANOTHER TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 155 words


THESE chilling scenes show the horror of an explosion on the Tube - as
experienced by police forensic teams in a training exercise. More than 200
British Transport Police and Met officers were involved in the rehearsal, which
used lifelike latex bodies and other props to create the scene of devastation.
The exercise was aimed at preparing the teams for situations such as the 7/7
terror attacks, when lack of integration between criminal investigation and body
identification teams led to delays in identifying victims, causing distress to
relatives. The father of one 7/7 victim told of his agonising 10-day wait. John
Taylor, 60, from Billericay, Essex, whose 24-year-old daughter Carrie was killed
by the explosion at Aldgate, spoke to the officers to emphasise the importance
of speeding up identification process. He said: "We were on our own and didn't
know who to contact. It was the not knowing, not having the information."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lifelike horrors: latex bodies and fake blood
Rapid response: emergency teams during the exercise

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LOL


                   Copyright 2009 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 13, 2009 Tuesday

Minister says Al-Qa'idah, Pakistan Taleban behind terror attacks

LENGTH: 353 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Islamabad, 13 Oct: Interior Minister A. Rehman Malik Tuesday [13 Oct] said the
evidences collected from recent terrorist attacks in Peshawar, Islamabad and
Rawalpindi have proved that Al-Qa'idah and banned outfit Tehrik-i-Taleban were
behind these attacks.

Talking to media here at a local hotel, he said the investigation into suicide
attacks on World Food Programme in Islamabad and in Khyber market Peshawar and
terrorist attack on GHQ have proved the involvement of TTP from South
Waziristan.

He further said that the banned outfits Lashkar-i-Jehngvi, Jesh Muhammad and
Sipa Sahaba have links with TTP and Al-Qa'idah. They were carrying out terrorist
attacks on their directions to destabilize the government. He said the
government has taken firm decision to undertake military operation in South
Waziristan to eliminate all the terrorists and militants.

He said the military operation in Swat and Malakand division was a success story
and this was acknowledged by the nation and the world community.

Malik further said that the two suspected persons arrested for their alleged
involvement in a suicide blast at WFO in Islamabad were being interrogated
adding that investigation was moving in right direction.

The Minister said that the F-8 incident occurred due to security lapse on behalf
of Phoenix, a private security company.

"I have summoned a meeting of private security companies, operating in Islamabad
next week to ensure foolproof security for the residents of the Federal
Capital."

He said the investigation report into the Islamabad blast will be submitted to
United Nations next week.

He said all the offices of the United Nations will be shifted to diplomatic
enclave in order to avoid any untoward incident in future.

"I have been struggling for the last six months for relocation of embassies and
UN offices in diplomatic enclave," he added.

The minister said that security of UN office and foreigners is top priority of
the government.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0737gmt
13 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bolton News

                            October 13, 2009 Tuesday

Neighbours save the day in Bolton arson attack terror

SECTION: BOLTON NEWS (BOLTON NEWS)

LENGTH: 228 words


A COUPLE were saved from their flat by a pair of hero neighbours after it was
targeted by arsonists.

Neighbours in Great Lever feared David Sumner and Gwen Openshaw would die in the
fire, just after midnight on Monday.

Mr Sumner, aged 49, heard a noise and saw the front door of the flat, in
Marlbrook Walk, on fire.

Neighbours tried to put out the flames as they waited for firefighters to
arrive.

Cath Smith, aged 44, said: "I kicked the front door to try opening it and threw
water on the flames.

"I tried climbing on a shed to smash a window and pull them out. I did
everything I could to help them. I thought they were going to die."

Michael Edge, aged 52, said: "I heard Cath screaming and went outside. I got a
bucket and started throwing water on the fire.

"I remembered the fire in Little Holme Walk and kept thinking 'oh no, not
another one'. Someone else could have been killed."

He was recalling the fire at Little Holme Walk last year, which claimed the
lives of grandmother Hameeda Begum, aged 71, and granddaughter Alana Mian, aged
five. .

In Monday's incident, Mr Sumner and Ms Openshaw, aged 57, were led to safety by
firefighters.

Mr Sumner, of Metfield Place, Halliwell said: "We have had a lucky escape. If we
had been asleep, we might not have been here now."

Anyone with information should contact the police on 0161 872 5050 or Crime
toppers on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 13, 2009 Tuesday

Pakistani army facing three-pronged threat from Punjabi, al-Qaida and Taliban
militants: Frank admission comes as suicide bomb kills over 40 Attackers
increasingly plan terror raids together

BYLINE: Declan Walsh Islamabad

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 795 words


Pakistan's army made a stark admission yesterday of the scale of the threat it
faces from a nexus of Punjabi, al-Qaida and Taliban militants whose attacks are
increasingly coordinated, include soldiers in their ranks and span the country.

The unusually frank assessment, made after the audacious assault on the
military's headquarters this weekend, came as a Taliban suicide bomber struck an
army convoy as it passed through a crowded marketplace in a small mountain town
near the Swat valley, killing 41 people and wounding 45.

It was the fourth militant atrocity to hit Pakistan in eight days of bloodshed
that have killed more than 120 people. One television channel reported that the
bomber in Shangla district in North West Frontier province was a 13-year-old
boy.

Meanwhile a Taliban spokesman claimed responsibility for the 22-hour gun battle
and siege at the army's headquarters in Rawalpindi, which ended on Sunday
morning when commandos freed 39 hostages. Eleven soldiers, three civilians and
nine militants died.

"This was our first small effort and a present to the Pakistani and American
governments," a Taliban spokesman, Azam Tariq, told the Associated Press.

Addressing journalists a few hundred metres from the scene of the gunfight, an
army spokesman, Major General Athar Abbas, described how the 10 attackers came
from two different sets of backgrounds. Five of them came from Punjab,
Pakistan's most populous and wealthy province, he said, while the other five
were from South Waziristan, a Taliban stronghold at the southern end of the
tribal belt, along the Afghan border.

Abbas said the attackers were led by a Punjabi militant named Aqeel, also known
as Dr Usman, but the operation was ordained by a Taliban commander based in
South Waziristan. Citing an intercepted telephone call, Abbas said commander
Wali-ur-Rehman urged followers to "pray" for the attacks after the assault began
on Saturday morning.

Abbas said the militants intended to take senior army officers hostage and use
them to negotiate the release of more than 100 militants. Other demands included
an end to military cooperation with the US and for the former president, General
Pervez Musharraf, to be put on trial.

Aqeel, the only surviving attacker, was being treated for serious injuries,
Abbas said. He confirmed that the militant was a former army medical corps
soldier from Kahuta, a town in the army's Punjabi recruitment heartland that is
home to a major nuclear weapons facility.

Aqeel deserted the army in 2004, he said, and joined Jaish-e-Muhammad, a
notorious militant group that in recent years has spawned splinter groups which
have become allied to al-Qaida.

The militant attacks come as 28,000 army soldiers prepare to launch an assault
on South Waziristan, where an estimated 10,000 fighters are holed up. Yesterday
army jets hit Taliban targets in the area for the second day running, in
preparation for an offensive the interior minister, Rehman Malik, said was
"imminent".

The army's admission of ever stronger links between the Taliban, al-Qaida and
Punjab-based militant groups was rare public confirmation of a trend analysts
have observed for years. "We've seen this troika nexus in many major terrorist
attacks - on the Marriott in Islamabad, on the navy headquarters in Lahore, and
on the FIA (Federal Investigation Agency)," said Amir Rana, a terrorism analyst.

In some instances, Rana said, al-Qaida provided the financing, the Taliban
logistics and training support, and Punjabi militants executed the operation.

The growing importance of the Punjabi factor in local and international
militancy has placed the army under pressure to extend its crackdown beyond the
tribal belt. At the weekend a spokesman for the North West Frontier province
government said that even if a South Waziristan offensive succeeded, militants
could still get help from Punjab.

Ajmal Kasab, the only surviving gunman from last November's Mumbai massacre,
comes from a small village in southern Punjab. Jaish-e-Muhammad operates a giant
madrasa on the edge of Bahawalpur, a dusty city in southern Punjab notorious for
its hardline madrasas.

The army rejected suggestions that a military operation would solve the problem.
"Yes there are terrorists in southern Punjab, and these groups have links to the
Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan," said Abbas. "But it's a very different environment.
It's well developed, it has a communications infrastructure and a huge security
force presence. It's very different from what was Swat, and what (we see) in
South Waziristan."

In Lahore, a court freed Hafiz Saeed, a prominent extremist cleric whom India
accuses of playing a major part in the Mumbai attacks. A prosecutor said the
extremist charity he heads, Jamaat-ud-Dawa, had not been officially banned.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday

No inquiry to be conducted into terror attack on Pakistan GHQ

LENGTH: 632 words


Text of report by Rauf Klasra headlined "GHQ siege" published by Pakistani
newspaper The News website on 14 October

Islamabad: The PPP government is said to have learnt its lessons from the fall
of the Junejo government in the aftermath of the Ojhri camp tragedy in 1988, and
has stopped short of ordering an inquiry into the stunning attack on the GHQ,
which virtually shook the whole nation last Saturday [10 Oct].

One source said instead of calling an urgent meeting of the Defence Committee of
the Cabinet (DCC), where three services chiefs are represented, to discuss this
important issue, Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gillani took a flight to China for a
six-day trip.

One top official source claimed that the sorry fate of the Junejo government
actually stopped the present rulers from ordering an inquiry into the tragedy to
determine who was responsible for the failure of three prime intelligence
agencies the IB, the ISI and the MI.

Over 100 men, women and children were killed and more wounded by missiles, which
rained death and destruction on the twin cities in 1988. The then prime
minister, Mohammad Khan Junejo, had appointed two committees - one military and
the other parliamentary - to probe the military disaster. His action infuriated
the military dictator Gen Ziaul Haq so much that he dismissed his handpicked
prime minister on 29 May 1988 on the pretext of being failed to implement Islam
in the country.

While the parliamentary committee, headed by senior politician Aslam Khattak,
went with the Junejo government, the military committee under Gen Imranullah
Khan submitted its report before the dismissal of the government. However, it
never saw the light of the day.

Imran Gardezi, the spokesman for PM Gillani, was not available for comments as
he was in China. Presidential spokesman Farhatullah Babar did not respond to the
question whether President Zardari, the supreme commander of the armed forces,
had ordered an inquiry into the GHQ attack.

The sources said instead of ordering an inquiry both President Zardari and Prime
Minister Gilani sent messages of "congratulations" to the top military brass.
One commentator said that the opposition too did not demand any inquiry into the
incident and this helped the PPP government. Ch Nisar Ali Khan could only say
that the National Assembly should be told how the terrorists reached inside the
GHQ. But there was no demand for any probe.

The sources said the recent secret meetings between Punjab Chief Minister
Shahbaz Sharif, opposition leader Ch Nisar Ali Khan and Army chief General
Ashfaq Kayani were the main reason behind the soft tone of the PML-N in the
assembly over this incident. The chief ministers of the NWFP and Balochistan
also met the Army chief recently.

One source said actually the PPP government was under tremendous pressure over
the Kerry-Luger Bill as the military leadership had expressed its concerns over
the bill through a press release to the media instead of using the normal
channel of the Ministry of Defence. The attack on the GHQ put the military
commanders on the back foot, enabling the PPP government to reassert its
position.

Here credit must be given to the Junejo government, which had taken a bold stand
by ordering an inquiry into the Ojhri camp tragedy. Junejo was so anxious to
punish those responsible for the incident that he forgot that he owed his
position to these very generals against whom he was ordering an inquiry. It is
no secret that General Zia had dismissed the Junejo government just to save the
skin of a few generals who were held responsible for the Ojhri camp tragedy.
Junejo had promised to the National Assembly that the inquiry report would be
made public and the guilty would be punished.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 14 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday

Security plan for Pakistan GHQ to be redesigned following terror attack

LENGTH: 544 words


Text of report by Javed Shahzad headlined "Decision to redesign security plan
for GHQ" published by Pakistani newspaper Ausaf on 12 October

Islamabad: After foiling the terrorist attack on the Pakistan Army headquarters,
GHQ [General Headquarters], a decision has been made on the advice of the
military leadership to redesign the security plan for the GHQ and redeploy
officers responsible for the security of the GHQ.

On a written application by the chief security officer of the GHQ, the R.A.
Bazaar Police Station has registered a case of terrorism and the first
information report [FIR]. Its copy has been sent to the Punjab home secretary
for the formation of a joint investigation team. To make foolproof security
arrangements, it has been made mandatory to shift the Army office and its
subsidiary offices set up in the GHQ surroundings. An announcement for the
formation of a high-level joint investigation team, comprising senior officers
of Military Intelligence [MI], Inter-Services Intelligence [ISI], and Punjab
Police, will be made today [date not given].

SSG [Special Services Group] Commander Major General Haroon Akhtar supervised
the the operation. According to details, the operation conducted by an agile and
expert contingent of the Pakistan Army under the leadership of Maj Gen Haroon
Akhtar at GHQ Security Wing on Sunday morning [date not given] has been named as
Operation Rah-e-Haq. The high-level officials of the Pakistan Army remained
present at the GHQ during the operation.

After the terrorists occupied the security building in the GHQ and held officers
and soldiers hostage, Maj Gen Akhtar became so upset that, during a meeting of
senior officers of the GHQ, he announced that he would himself take part in the
operation. According to sources, the video record of this whole saga staged by
the terrorists has been acquired. The military sources said that Brigadier
Anwar-ul Haq and Lieutenant Colonel Wasim came out of the Security Wing building
after listening to the bangs of explosions and fell victim to the firing of
shots.

According to sources, Army Sports Complex and offices of Artillery Officer,
ISPR, and Signals, besides those of the Guards and BSD situated on Tamiz-ud Din
Road, can become a security risk for the GHQ. After the incident, a decision has
been made to close all roads leading to the GHQ for traffic and erect barriers
at Gate No 1 of the GHQ. However, armed contingents will remain deployed in the
internal roads of the GHQ, and underground security bunkers will also be built.

Sources said that the terrorists who had occupied the Security Wing demanded
release of 150 dangerous terrorists detained by the security agencies, and the
number continued to decrease at different intervals the whole day. And before
the commandos began the operation, the terrorists had withdrawn the demand for
the release of their 150 companions, and they started demanding a safe exit
passage, which the military leadership refused to accept and ordered Maj Gen
Haroon to initiate the operation. According to military sources, the terrorists
were given time as the Army gave priority to the safe release of the hostages
while devising a strategy for the operation.

Source: Ausaf, Islamabad, in Urdu 0000 GMT 12 Oct 09, pp 1, 6

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday

Saudi security figure, two terror suspects killed in foiled attack

LENGTH: 251 words


Text of report in English by Saudi state-owned official news agency SPA website

["Security Spokesman at the Ministry of Interior makes statement" - SPA
headline]

Riyadh, October 13, SPA - Major General Mansur Bin-Sultan al-Turki, the Security
Spokesman at the Ministry of Interior, said that, according to the information
made available to the security authorities about the plan of the deviated group
to carry out terrorist crimes targeting the breach of peace and public order,
security men at Al-Hamraa police checkpoint in Jazan Region, suspected early
morning today the intentions of three persons in a salon car, two of them
disguised as females. Waiting for a female inspector to come to the scene
according to instructions in the case of female suspects, those in the car fired
at the security men, killing one of them and slightly injuring another before
the security men exchanged fire, killing two of them and arresting the third.
Preliminary investigation revealed that two of the terrorists were wearing ready
explosive belts and possessing a number of hand generates [as received;
grenades]. In the car were also a quantity of hand generates and machine guns
and other substance likely to be used to manufacture and prepare explosive
materials, Al-Turki said.

He added that security considerations oblige us not to give more details about
the incidents in the present time. A supplementary statement would be issued
later, he concluded.

Source: SPA news agency website, Riyadh, in English 13 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday

Terrorist suspect 'plotted attack on oil refinery'

BYLINE: Henry Samuel in Paris

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 190  words


A NUCLEAR scientist turned al-Qaeda agent allegedly planned to blow up a Total
oil refinery with an explosion that would have destroyed a city "the size of
London'', a security source claimed yesterday.

Adlene Hicheur, 32, also drew up a list of leading European politicians as
"assassination targets''.

Mr Hicheur is on remand in Paris after being placed under investigation on
Monday for "criminal activities related to a terrorist group''. According to the
security sources, the physicist, who had worked for the Cern nuclear research
laboratory near Geneva, had been corresponding with al-Qaeda's North African
unit under a pseudonym.

The sources claimed a plan was under way to target Total, the oil company.

"He had offered his services to strike with an active service unit based in
France.

"He had started to compile a precise list of intended targets including a Total
oil refinery which would have caused an explosion which would have destroyed a
city the size of London,'' the source said.

Mr Hicheur and his 25-year-old brother were arrested last Thursday at their
parents' flat near Lyon. The brother has been released without charge.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           October 14, 2009 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

Family victims of racist thugs;
Children in terror after 20 attacks

BYLINE: LUKE TRAYNOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 328 words


A NIGERIAN family today told of how racist yobs are again trying to force them
out of their Merseyside home.

Bricks were flung at the window of their Stockbridge Village property last
Friday evening as mum Rosemary Asemote watched TV with her young children.

In just nine months, there have been over 20 attacks on the Woodfarm Hey house
which police are treating as racially-motivated.

Now the family are desperate to move away as they say they feel powerless to
stop the gang yobs, some as young as nine.

At around 10pm, on Friday, a missile was hurled at the living room window,
shattering the glass.

Rosemary, 40, her 14-year-old daughter, Judith, and 11-year-old twins, Prince
and Princess, were unharmed but badly shaken up.

Days earlier, the same window had been broken by yobs and the pane had only just
been replaced. Dad Luke, 48, a quantity surveyor, told the ECHO: "I don't know
why these attacks are happening.

"It spiralled between January and April, but now it's gone dark, it's started
again.

"We've been called 'n*****' in the past as we walk down the road. There's other
black minority families who are targeted, but never a white family.

"My children are afraid to go out and it upsets me when they attack my house
while my wife and kids are alone late at night."

Along with missile attacks, the Asemotes have suffered vehicles being vandalised
and their children being verbally abused at a nearby bus stop.

The incident has been referred to Merseyside Police's hate crime unit.

Chief Superintendent Darren Martland, of Merseyside Police, said : "This kind of
behaviour will not be tolerated in our communities and I would reassure local
people that we are treating the matter very seriously."

Merseyside Police are appealing to anyone who witnessed the incident, or who has
information, to contact Merseyside Police on 0151 709 6010 or the confidential
Crimestoppers line on 0800 555 111.

email luke.raynor@liverpool.com 0151 472 2486

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  TERRIFIED: The Asemota family outside their Stockbridge Village home
which has come under attack Picture: ANDREW TEEBAY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2009 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 15, 2009 Thursday

Terror attacks in Pakistan's Lahore kills 10, injures several - agency

LENGTH: 231 words


Text of report by official news agency Associated Press of Pakistan (APP)

Lahore - Ten persons were killed while several others received injuries when
terrorists attacked the buildings of security forces in three different parts of
the city on Thursday [15 October].

According to police, Edhi and Rescue 1122 sources, six persons, including a
terrorist, were killed in the attack at the FIA building here at Temple Road.

The terrorists encircled the building and while resorting to indiscriminate
firing entered its premises. The security forces retaliated, killing one
terrorist, while five security men, including an inspector and SI, embraced
martyrdom.

Reportedly, the terrorists also made some security personnel hostages and the
operation was ongoing in the area.

In another attack, at Manawan Police Training Centre, one person, yet to be
identifed, was killed while five others received injuries.

According to eye witnesses and rescue sources, 13 terrorists, including three
women, attacked Bedian Elite Training School, killing three security men on the
spot, and four others received injuries. Rangers and army personnel have reached
the spot.

Heavy gunfire shots were heard at FIA building, Manawan Police Training Centre
and the Elite Training Centre as the security forced launched operations.

Source: Associated Press of Pakistan news agency, Islamabad, in English 0712gmt
15 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     October 15, 2009 Thursday 04:27 PM GMT

Pakistan terror attacks aim to disrupt anti-Taliban campaign

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 691 words


Pakistan was hit by a wave of co-ordinated terror attacks today aimed at
disrupting a planned offensive against the Taliban on their home territory.

Three law enforcement centres in the cultural capital of Lahore were hit by
gunmen and car bombs exploded in two cities near the Afghan border.

Around 40 people died in the violence, believed to have been organised by the
Taliban who are facing a planned Pakistani army assault into their South
Waziristan stronghold in an attempt to hinder their operations in neighbouring
Afghanistan.

The assaults highlight Islamist militants' ability to carry out sophisticated
strikes on heavily fortified facilities and expose the failure of the
intelligence agencies to adequately infiltrate the extremist cells.

The attacks were also the latest to underscore the growing threat to Punjab, of
which Lahore is the capital. The province is next to India where the Taliban are
believed to have made inroads and linked up with local insurgent outfits.

President Asif Ali Zardari said the bloodshed that has engulfed the nation over
the past two weeks would not deter the government from its mission to eliminate
the violent extremists.

"The enemy has started a guerrilla war," Interior Minister Rehman Malik said.
"The whole nation should be united against these handful of terrorists, and God
willing we will defeat them."

The wave of violence practically shut down daily life in Lahore. All government
offices were ordered closed, the roads were nearly empty, and major markets were
closed.

The assaults began about 9am local time when a single gunman wearing civilian
clothes and a suicide vest burst into the offices of the Federal Investigation
Agency, the national law enforcement body, and began shooting.

He killed two men and four civilians and was killed by guards at the building
before he could detonate his explosives.

Soon after three or four gunmen raided a police training school on the outskirts
of the city, killing 11 officers and recruits, before police killed all the
attackers.

A third team then scaled the back wall of a police commando training centre and
stood on a roof shooting at security forces and throwing grenades.

All four were killed, along with a police officer and a civilian.

A senior government official, said the attackers appeared to be both from the
lawless tribal regions along the Afghan border and from Punjab.

"They were not here to live. They were here to die. Each time they were injured,
they blew themselves up," he said. "They were well trained to the extent they
could jump over the walls and shoot well."

Officials have warned that Taliban fighters close to the border were
increasingly joining forces with Punjabi militants spread out across the country
and foreign al Qaida operatives, dramatically increasing the dangers to
Pakistan. Punjab is Pakistan's most populous and powerful province, and the
Taliban claimed recently that they were activating cells there and elsewhere in
the country for assaults.

Despite their reach and influence, the nation's feared spy agencies have failed
to stop the bloody attacks plaguing the country.

Meanwhile in the Taliban-riddled north-west a suicide car bomb exploded next to
a police station in Kohat city, collapsing half the building and killing 11
people .

Another bomb exploded in a car outside a housing complex for government
employees in the north-western city of Peshawar, killing a six-year-old boy and
wounding nine others, most of them women and children.

The West has encouraged Pakistan to take action against insurgents who are using
its soil as a base for attacks in Afghanistan, where Nato troops are bogged down
in an increasingly difficult war.

The Taliban have claimed a wave of attacks that began with an October 5 strike
on the UN food agency in Islamabad and included a siege of the army's
headquarters in the garrison city of Rawalpindi that left 23 people dead.

They have warned Pakistan to stop pursuing them in military operations.

The Pakistani army has given no timetable for its expected offensive in South
Waziristan, but has reportedly already sent two divisions totalling 28,000 men
and blockaded the area.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                BreakingNews.ie

                     October 15, 2009 Thursday 07:23 AM GMT

Pakistan hit by wave of terrorist attacks

SECTION: WORLD NEWS

LENGTH: 447 words


A wave of violence engulfed Pakistan today as gunmen stormed a government
building in Lahore and attacked two police academies near the city - one of them
an elite commando training centre.

The attacks took place less than two hours apart and plunged the city into
chaos.

Pakistan's interior minister Rehman Malik said: "The enemy has started a
guerrilla war."

In addition, at least eight people were killed in a suicide car bomb attack on a
police station in the Taliban-riddled north west.

Seven people died in the one and a half-hour gun battle at the Federal
Investigation Agency building in Lahore. The dead included two attackers, four
government employees and a bystander.

Senior police official Chaudhry Shafiq said one of the dead wore a suicide
jacket laden with explosives.

The Federal Investigation Agency is a premier law enforcement organisation that
deals with matters ranging from immigration to terrorism.

Local reports said hostages were held during today's gun battle.

The attack appeared similar to a siege mounted on the army's headquarters over
the past weekend that left 23 people dead and was claimed by the Taliban as
their work. The militants have also claimed credit for other attacks in recent
days, warning Pakistan to stop pursuing them in military operations.

The violence was the latest in a string of attacks to rock the US-allied
nuclear-armed country as it prepares to launch a major offensive in a Taliban
and al-Qaida stronghold.

Police official Habib Khan said police and civilians were among the dead in the
suicide attack in Kohat district, an area close to the tribal regions. Around 20
people were wounded.

One of the police training centres under attack today was the Manawan Police
Academy, which was targeted by a group of gunmen earlier this year, leading to a
eight-hour stand-off that killed 12 people.

Meanwhile, a suspected US missile strike killed four alleged militants,
officials said today.

The Pakistani army has given no time frame for the expected offensive in South
Waziristan, but has reportedly already sent two divisions totalling 28,000 men
and blockaded the region.

Fearing the looming offensive, about 200,000 people have fled South Waziristan
since August, moving in with relatives or renting homes in the Tank and Dera
Ismail Khan areas, a local government official said.

Senior police official Malik Iqbal said at least one police constable was killed
during the attack on the police commando training centre, not far from the
airport.

Television footage showed helicopters over one of the police buildings and
paramilitary forces with rifles and bulletproof vests taking cover behind trees
outside a wall surrounding the compound.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Edinburgh News

                           October 15, 2009 Thursday

Dozens killed as Lahore hit by wave of terror attacks

LENGTH: 153 words



HIGHLIGHT: A WAVE of violence engulfed Pakistan today as gunmen stormed a
government building in Lahore and attacked two police academies near the city -
one of them an elite commando training centre.


The attacks took place less than two hours apart.

In addition, at least eight people were killed in a suicide car bomb attack on a
police station in the Taleban-riddled north-west.

Seven people died in the one-and-a half-hour gun battle at the Federal
Investigation Agency building in Lahore. The dead included two attackers, four
government employees and a bystander.

Senior police official Chaudhry Shafiq said one of the dead wore a suicide
jacket laden with explosives.

Local reports said hostages were held during today's gun battle.

The attack was similar to a siege mounted on the army's HQ over the past weekend
that left 23 people dead and was claimed by the Taleban as their work.

Police official Habib Khan said police and civilians were among the dead in the
suicide attack in Kohat district. Around 20 people were wounded.

Meanwhile, a suspected US missile strike killed four alleged militants,
officials said today.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EN


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                           October 15, 2009 Thursday
                                  2ND Edition

SHARK BITE HORROR;
Diver tells of terror as he is attacked by predator in Australia

BYLINE: STEPHANIE O'CONNOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 539 words


A DIVER has told of the horrifying moment he was attacked by a 10ft man-eating
shark which gouged his leg open.

Matt Bowen, from Thelwall, near Warrington, had been diving around a ship wreck
off the coast of Australia when the terrifying attack happened.

The 23-year-old turned around to see the massive bull shark sinking its teeth
into his left leg.

The ex-Lymm High School pupil frantically kicked out at it as the ferocious fish
clung on to his calf, ripping the muscle and turning the water blood-red.

Matt''s dive buddy, Canadian Alex McFadyen, rushed to his aid kicking the shark
until it turned tail and swam away.

Alex grabbed Matt and propelled them both 100ft to the surface where they waved
to their dive boat to pick them up.

Matt was rushed to a hospital in Albany, Western Australia, before being
transferred to Perth for specialist treatment.

Matt, who is currently in Australia as part of a round-the-world trip, said: "It
was scary but I was in so much shock at the time that I barely even felt it to
begin with.

"My buddy and I used to mess around all the time, grabbing each other by the
legs and pretending it was a shark attack.

"So when I felt a tug on my leg, I initially thought it was her. It wasn''t
really painful but it suddenly got a lot more vigorous and violent.

"I turned round to see what was going on and there was this three metre shark
clinging onto me.

"I started kicking it as hard as I could to free my leg. I was aiming for the
head but doing whatever I could to get it away from me.

"It would have gone for me again, but luckily I got my flippers in the way.

"My buddy pulled me away, kicking the shark at the same time.

"Eventually it turned round and swam away and we managed to get up to the
surface.

"We waved to the dinghy to pick us up while Alex looked through the cloud of
blood beneath us to see whether the shark was coming back.

"When I looked at my leg, all I could see was this bloody mess. Instead of a
calf, all I could see was a hunk of shredded tissue and blood.

"The shock and adrenaline soon wore off and I was in a world of pain, slipping
in and out of consciousness for a while."

Matt's parents had been on holiday at the time of the attack.

Matt's mum, Judith, said: "We had been back a few days and he called and started
asking questions about his insurance policy.

"I asked him why and he said, 'Well, I have sort of been bitten'."

Matt reassured his mum that he would rather recover on a sunny beach and
reassured his parents there was no reason for them to take the long flight to
visit him.

Matt underwent six weeks of intense physiotherapy following the attack, which
happened in February, and had to visit the doctor every other day to get his
dressing changed before he was able to walk properly.

Matt has been left with a 10 inch long scar along his calf but incredibly, the
near-death experience hasn''t put him off diving.

He said: "It definitely hasn''t put me off sharks or going in the sea."

Mum Judith believes Matt will be using his scar to his advantage.

She said: "He's very laid back. I know it has made him appreciate life more but
I've told him he is not invincible.

"He will probably be using the scar to attract women."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SURVIVOR: Matt Bowen just before the attack from a 10ft bull shark and
(right) on the road to recovery from his injuries (below) AGILE PREDATOR: Bull
sharks will eat anything they see

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2009 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                            Nottingham Evening Post

                           October 15, 2009 Thursday

Mum's terror after Basford arson attack;
A Mum has told of her terror after arsonists set light to her car, trapping her
and her two children inside their house.

BYLINE: SARAH GILLETT

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 324 words


The 29-year-old woman, who was too scared to be named, woke up in the early
hours of yesterday morning to find her Citroen Saxo ablaze and flames licking at
her house.

The car was parked in the drive outside her front door on Harmston Rise, Old
Basford - making it impossible for the family to get out. Leaving by the back
door would have trapped them in the garden.

The woman said: "My eldest son woke me up just before 3am.

"He said he had heard a bang and when we looked out we realised it was our car
on fire.

"The flames had gone straight up to the landing window and the window had
cracked from the heat.

"It was so scary. I just kept thinking, what have I done to deserve this?

"Nothing like this has ever happened before. If my son hadn't woken up when he
did I don't know what would have happened.

"The firemen said it was only a minute or two away from the house going up.
Petrol was coming out of the car on fire and going towards the house."

Eventually, she and her sons, aged six and 10, were rescued from a ground floor
window.

She said: "I didn't know what to do, I was just hanging out of the window
screaming. The firemen got here so quickly. I'm so grateful to them."

She said the heat from the fire was so intense that glass in the front door
shattered and toys in a cupboard in the landing melted.

She said: "It was all the kids' Power Ranger toys, which they had been
collecting for ages."

She said she believes whoever did it would have known there were people in the
house as the lights were on.

She said: "I'm so scared. I don't know whether I want to stay here and you
shouldn't feel like that in your home."

The woman's sister, who lives nearby, said: "I think it's sick. There were toys
outside so they would have known there were children inside."

It is thought the arsonists tried to enter the garage before torching the car.
Anyone with information should call the police on 0300 300 9999.

sarah.gillett@nottinghameveningpost.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 48


                     Copyright 2009 Nottingham Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 16, 2009 Friday

Strict measures to ensure Pakistan capital security after terror attacks

LENGTH: 392 words


Text of report by Fazal Sher headlined "Strict measures to ensure security of
Capital" published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times website on 16 October

Islamabad: Following the terrorist attacks in Lahore and NWFP [North-West
Frontier Province], the law-enforcement agencies on Thursday [15 October] took
stringent security measures in the city, especially in the Red Zone to ensure
foolproof security of important installations.

Soon after the news of terror attacks, the authorities ordered police to take
strict security arrangements and heavy contingents of police were deployed
across the city. The police, Rangers and Frontier Constabulary (FC) personnel
were deployed in the Red Zone for security of the important installations, said
senior official.

Search operation: He said Rangers and FC personnel were deployed to watch
Margalla Hills forest area and police and other law-enforcement agencies started
search operation in the woods in and around the Red Zone and sensitive
installations.

Snipers: He said snipers of Anti Terrorist Squad were also deployed at the
rooftops of the sensitive installations and buildings adjacent to them.
Similarly, sniffer dogs and experts in detecting explosives were also deployed
at different police pickets.

He said the number of policemen deployed for security of different markets had
also been increased and strictly directed to keep close eye on the suspicious
people and vehicles.

Vehicles' checking: The official said police deployed at the checkpoints were
strictly directed to search each and every vehicle, including those carrying
official number plates, of law-enforcement agencies, armed forces and
parliamentarians before allowing them enter the Red Zone. Similar directions
were also issued to the police deployed at the pickets across the city, he said.

Long queues of vehicles were observed at the police pickets, especially on
Islamabad expressway, Kashmir Highway, Margalla Road and Aga Khan Road due to
strict checking.

He said all station house officers and sub divisional police officers had been
directed to conduct effective patrolling in their respective areas and conduct
body search and demand identification of pedestrians moving in the area.

The official said police were conducting strict checking of vehicles entering
the city.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 16 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 16, 2009 Friday

Ministry denies Moscow police seeking lorry with explosives for terror attack

LENGTH: 184 words


Text of report by Gazprom-owned, editorially independent Russian radio station
Ekho Moskvy on 16 October

All special detachments of Moscow and Moscow Region have been alerted after a
search was launched for a Kamaz lorry carrying explosives.

The explosives were intended for a terrorist attack on the Kashirskaya GRES
[state district power plant], the website life.ru has reported. The number plate
of the vehicle is known. Its distinguishing marks have been reported to all
fixed and mobile posts of traffic police. All Kamaz vehicles are being inspected
irrespective of their number plates. Moreover, operational groups are checking
all truck parks.

[ITAR-TASS news agency, Moscow, in Russian, 0600 gmt 16 Oct 09 reported that the
Russian Interior Ministry had denied reports that a lorry with explosives was
heading for Moscow.

"Reports about police officers allegedly looking for a lorry with explosives
intended for a terrorist attack do not correspond to reality," the head of the
ministry's press centre, Oleg Yelnikov, was quoted as saying].

Source: Ekho Moskvy radio, Moscow, in Russian 0546 gmt 16 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 16, 2009 Friday

Indian agency behind Pakistan terror attacks - official

LENGTH: 270 words


Text of report by Pakistani newspaper Dawn website on 16 October

Lahore, Oct 15: Commissioner Khusro Pervez has blamed RAW [Research and Analysis
Wing, Indian agency] for terror activities in Pakistan, while Interior Minister
Rehman Malik advised not to speak without proof.

"I request not to name the involvement of anyone without investigation into
terror attacks," Mr Malik told journalists here on Thursday [15 October].

He reiterated that banned organisations like Jaish-i-Muhammad and
Lashkar-i-Jhangvi had joined hands with Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan in carrying
out terror attacks.

He also announced 300,000 rupees and a plot each for the families of the FIA
[Federal Investigation Agency] officials who lost their lives in the attack on
Thursday.

"In Paktia (Afghanistan), there are camps set up by India for terrorists'
training and what is the justification of a number of Indian consulates along
the Pakistan border in Afghanistan," the commissioner told newsmen after
inspecting the Manawan Police Training School.

Khusro Pervez said terrorists could not succeed in their nefarious designs.
"They are targeting law-enforcement agencies. Since our military forces have
launched operation in Waziristan, terrorists have started carrying out such
dastardly acts to divert attention of the law-enforcement agencies," he said.

The commissioner said one terrorist blew himself in school's kitchen, one in
barber shop, one in the barrack for sick personnel and the fourth one was gunned
down by the police. He said the saboteurs would not be allowed to go scot-free.

Source: Dawn website, Karachi, in English 16 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 16, 2009 Friday

Five Sydney men convicted of conspiring to commit terror attack

BYLINE: Toni O'Loughlinguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 538 words

ABSTRACT

Australian court told men stockpiled weapons and chemicals to make bombs

FULL TEXT

Five Sydney men have been found guilty of conspiring to commit a terror attack,
by stockpiling weapons and chemicals to make bombs, in one of the longest
criminal trials in Australian history.

During the 10-month trial the crown heard from 300 witnesses and presented 3,000
exhibits, and the jury spent more than 30 days watching and listening to
surveillance tapes and reviewing 18 hours of telephone intercepts.

The jury took 23 days to convict the men unanimously on a range of charges
including possessing bomb-making instructions and explosive chemicals.

The men, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were arrested in a series of
raids in 2005, after they had been under police surveillance for 16 months.

The crown argued the men had been pursuing violent jihad, stockpiling chemicals
and detailed instructions for making bombs capable of causing large-scale death
and destruction.

But the prosecution case relied entirely on circumstantial evidence, and the
target of the purported attack was never specified.

In his closing address the crown prosecutor, Richard Maidment, said he could not
prove what the men were planning to do.

"The crown does not suggest that the evidence reveals that they had reached any
firm conclusion as to what precise action was to be carried out, what targets
were to be selected, who was actually to carry the bomb, where it was to be
placed, how it was to be placed, how big it was going to be, whether it was
going to be in a vehicle or in a backpack or how it was going to be taken to the
relevant target," he said.

It took eight months of pre-trial court hearings and 65 judgments before the
case began as authorities argued for large amounts of evidence to be made secret
from the public and the accused to protect national security.

"There have been very few media reports about this trial," said Nicola
McGarrity, director of the Terrorism and Law Project at the University of New
South Wales.

"There were very broad ranging suppression orders placed over the trial. There
were suppression orders on suppression orders."

Police said they found a cache of weapons in the south-west Sydney home of the
accused ringleader, along with 28,000 rounds of ammunition - enough to keep
firing for 37 hours, the court was told.

The jury heard that one of the accused had attended a paramilitary training camp
in Pakistan run by the terrorist organisation, Lashkar-e-Taiba, but a key FBI
witness agreed with the defence that it could have been a case of mistaken
identity.

They were also told three of the men joined a paramilitary-style camp in western
New South Wales, although the defence claimed the men were just hunting and
camping.

Police monitored the men as they used false names to acquire mobile phones and
spoke in code, aware they were under surveillance. They also acquired
night-vision cameras.

Each of the men possessed extremist material on their home computers on topics
including the September 11 attacks and ritual beheadings.

Originally nine men were arrested, but four confessed. The remaining five, who
were convicted today but cannot be named because of an ongoing trial, face
maximum life sentences.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 16, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

The enemy within brings bloodshed and terror to Pakistan;
Co-ordinated attacks across country show Taliban's strength and sophistication

BYLINE: Omar Waraich IN LAHORE

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 894 words


PAKISTAN WAS reeling last night after the Taliban intensified its bloody
campaign of violence, launching five separate attacks in a single day, including
the first ever with female assailants.

At least 28 victims died in three attacks carried out by gunmen on police
targets in Lahore and two car bombs in Kohat and Peshawar. "The enemy has
started a guerrilla war," said the Interior Minister Rehman Malik. "The whole
nation should be united against these handful of terrorists, and God willing we
will defeat them."

Yesterday was the fifth day of bloodshed in Pakistan in the past
week-and-a-half. The violence, which has claimed more than 100 victims and
demonstrated the Taliban's brutal reach across the country, comes as Pakistan
launches a series of air strikes on South Waziristan, paving the way for what it
has promised will be an ambitious army ground offensive on the Taliban
stronghold.

The highly co-ordinated Lahore attacks began at 9am, unfolding simultaneously in
three separate locations including the Federal Investigation Agency, the
national law enforcement body. They represented the region's most sophisticated
militant assault since last November's bloodshed in Mumbai. Like those
attackers, the Lahore teams were equipped with dried fruit, apparently prepared
to dig in for the long haul.

Normally-bustling Lahore was brought to a standstill as security forces spent
hours exchanging gunfire with the militants. The longest siege took place at an
elite commando training facility in Badian, near the airport.

The attackers scaled the back wall, with some standing on the roof shooting at
security forces and throwing grenades in a stand-off that lasted four hours.
"They [the militants] were wearing black, all black," said Inam Mansoor, an
ambulance driver who helped recover the injured from the compound. "They were
carrying guns and had backpacks."

The Interior Minister said that the attackers included three women - the first
time that women have been involved in militant violence in Pakistan. There is
speculation of the involvement of female madrassa students from Islamabad's Red
Mosque, the scene of a deadly siege in July 2007, who travelled to southern
Punjab in the aftermath.

Lt. Gen. Shafqat Ahmad said five attackers died in the fighting - three were
killed in the firefight and two more were killed when they blew themselves up.

Meanwhile, in the heart of the city, gunmen entered the Federal Investigation
Agency building, which was targeted with a truck bomb eighteen months ago, when
21 people were killed. yesterday, four government employees and a bystander lost
their lives. At the Manawan police training academy, which had already been
targeted earlier this year, nine police officers and four militants were killed.

Before the violence escalated in Lahore a suicide car bomb was detonated near a
police station in the north-west city of Kohat, killing three police officers
and eight civilians. Finishing off the bloody day, another car bomb exploded in
Peshawar, outside the residence of the province's chief minister's driver. A
six-year-old boy was killed, while nine others, mainly women and children, were
badly wounded.

The attacks, which came just days after a daring raid on the army quarters in
Rawalpindi, have raised fears of a deeper plunge into chaos as Taliban militants
based along the Afghan border and in the north-west have demonstrated their
ability to strike across the country. Last night security was being beefed up in
Karachi, Pakistan's largest city, and residents in the capital, Islamabad were
also braced for the worst.

Of particular concern is the apparent operational nexus that has emerged between
the Pakistani Taliban, based in the tribal areas, and militants from the
heartland province of Punjab.

Sajjad Bhutta, a senior government official, said that the attackers who
unleashed yesterday's violence appeared to be a mixture of both. Many were
wearing suicide vests and blew themselves up when cornered. "They were not here
to live. They were here to die. Each time they were injured, they blew
themselves up," he said.

In recent years militant groups, once nurtured by the Pakistan army to lead an
anti-Indian insurgency in Kashmir, and vicious sectarian groups have drawn
closer to the Pakistani Taliban and al-Qa'ida.

Splinter groups of the notorious Jaish-e-Mohammad were recently involved in
fighting against the Pakistan army in the Swat Valley. Lashkar-e-Jhangvi,
considered by some to be al-Qa'ida's Pakistan "franchise", is believed to have
been involved in attacks on the Islamabad Marriott and the Sri Lankan cricket
team.

In June Pakistan's government ordered the army to launch an offensive in South
Waziristan, believed to be the lair of Osama bin Laden's top lieutenants. Since
then the military had been conducting air and artillery strikes to soften up
militant defences. The government says the land assault against an estimated
10,000 hard-core Taliban militants is imminent, and that the army will decide
when to send in the ground troops. But in the meantime the Taliban is getting
plenty of retaliation.

In a statement, Pakistan's Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi last night said
that the country would not be swayed from its tactics. "Such barbaric, inhuman
and un-Islamic terrorist acts only strengthen our resolve to fight terrorism
with more vitality," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                            October 16, 2009 Friday
                                  Eire Edition

39 ARE KILLED IN TERRORIST RAID ATTACKS;
PAKISTAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 96 words


TERROR gangs have killed 39 people in synchronised attacks in Pakistan.

Teams of gunmen strafed three high-security buildings in Lahore, including the
headquarters of the country's Federal Investigation Agency.

Meanwhile, a suicide car bomb exploded next to a police station in the
Taliban-dominated region of Kohat, killing 11 people.

And another in Peshawar near the Afghanistan border wounded five people.

Interior Minister Rehman Malik said: "The enemy has started a guerrilla war.

"The whole nation should be united against these terrorists, and God willing we
will defeat them."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday

Somali minister dismisses reports of terror attacks in South Africa

LENGTH: 257 words


Text of report by privately-owned Somali Shabeelle Media Network website on 17
October

The Transitional Federal Government of Somalia [TFG] has dismissed recent
[terror] reports on South African media. The TFG Minister of Somalis in diaspora
and investment, Abdullahi Ahmad Abdulle Azhari in an interview with Shabelle
said recent reports by the South African media that he Somali community in that
country was planning to carry out terror attacks on stadia hosting the 2010
world cup are false allegations.

The minister said they had heard about the reports but there is no way that
Somalis could engage in such activities. Speaking to Shabelle, the minister was
asked what the current TFG government has done for the Somali communities in
South Africa. The minister said a government delegation recently travelled to
South Africa where they held talks with the country's foreign affairs minister
and discussed how his government could give asylum to the Somali refugees in
their country.

Although the TFG minister of Somalis in the diaspora and investment, Abdullahi
Ahmad Azhari, has said the government has discussed the plight of Somalis in the
country with the South African Foreign Affairs Minister, there is still outcry
from the Somali communities there. Recent reports in the South African media
have indicated that some Somalis in that country are planning to carry out
terror attacks on grounds hosting the 2010 World club, claims the minister has
since rejected.

Source: Shabeelle Media Network website, Mogadishu, in Somali 17 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                   The Mirror

                           October 17, 2009 Saturday
                                  Eire Edition

ITALIANS 'PAID TALIBAN NOT TO ATTACK';
TERRORISM

BYLINE: GREIG BOX TURNBULL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 126 words


A TALIBAN commander yesterday claimed Italian forces have paid Afghan warlords
bribes to prevent attacks on their troops.

The Afghans gave details of the alleged deal after PM Silvo Berlusconi's office
branded the allegation "rubbish".

Mohammed Ishmayel, a Taliban commander, said the deal was agreed last year to
ensure Italian forces in the Salobi area, east of Kabul, were not attacked by
insurgents.

He added the two groups agreed not to attack each other after tens of thousands
of dollars were paid. The deal was revealed last year after the Taliban killed
10 French soldiers and injured 21 others.

France had taken over control of the apparently low-risk area where only one
Italian had died in the previous year.

The French were attacked within a month.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DENIAL Silvio Berlusconi

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2009 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday

Pakistan: Wireless sets, arms go missing from police school after terror attacks

LENGTH: 217 words


Text of report by Rana Tanveer headlined "Wireless sets, ammunition go missing
from elite training school Bedian" published by Pakistani newspaper Daily Times
website on 17 October

Lahore: Some wireless sets and ammunition have gone missing from the Elite
Police Training School Bedian during the operation against the perpetrators of
Thursday's terrorist attack, sources has told Daily Times.

Sources said the school administration collected ammunition and other items
after completing the operation. They said some pistols, wireless sets and
bullets went missing in the search. However, they said a missing pistol was
found on Friday.

Sources said the police high-ups issued directions at 6pm on Friday to question
the whole staff about the missing items. They said the inquiry did not yield any
results, as nothing was recovered from any police official.

An Elite Force inspector, seeking anonymity, told Daily Times that a few things,
including some wireless sets and bullets were missing, adding that no large
weapon was misplaced. He dispelled the impression that terrorists had used
police weapons and wireless sets. He said missing of ammunition was a routine in
such a big operation where it was not possible to keep a record of each bullet.

Source: Daily Times website, Lahore, in English 17 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday

Majlis speaker condemns terrorist attack in southeastern Iran

LENGTH: 253 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Tehran, 18 October: Majlis Speaker Ali Larijani condemned a terrorist attack in
southeastern Iran which killed a number of IRGC commanders this morning saying
the attack was aimed at disturbing region's security.

About 60 people were killed or injured in the terrorist attack which took place
in the Pishin region close to Iran's border with Pakistan.

Two senior commanders of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) including
Acting Commander of the IRGC Ground Forces and Commander of Qods Headquarters
Brigadier General Nur Ali Shushtari and Commander of Sistan-Baluchestan IRGC
Forces Brigadier General Rajabali Mohammadzadeh were martyred in the attack.

The commanders were attending a meeting held by leaders and heads of provincial
tribes when an attacker with explosives attached to him blew himself up.

Larijani said that the attack was made "in line with the enemies' plans to
prevent economic development in that area."

Expressing his condolences to the families of the victims as well as the
government and people of Iran, the speaker said that the IRGC would continue its
efforts to restore development and security in Sistan-Baluchestan province even
more strongly than before despite such a terrorist act.

MPs of the Iranian Majlis shouted anti-US and anti-Israeli slogans immediately
after receiving the report of the suicide attack.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 0840 gmt 18 Oct
09

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday

Ten tribal leaders killed in "terrorist" attack in southeastern Iran

LENGTH: 319 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Zahedan, Sistan-Baluchestan Province, 18 October: Ten leaders and heads of
provincial tribes were among victims of the Sunday morning [18 October]
terrorist attack in this southeastern province, said a local security official.

Provincial Deputy Governor for Security Affairs Jalal Sayyah told IRNA that the
terrorist attack in Pishin region close to Iran's border with Pakistan has
indicated the "enemies' fear from the strengthening of unity between Iranian
Shi'i and Sunni Muslims.

About 60 people were killed or injured in the terrorist act which took place

when a bomber blew himself up during a meeting held for the unity of provincial
Sunni and Shi'i Muslims.

Acting Commander of the Ground Forces of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps
and Commander of Qods Headquarters Brigadier General Nur Ali Shoushtari along
with Commander of Sistan-Baluchestan IRGC Forces Brigadier General Rajab Ali
Mohammadzadeh were among those killed in the fatal attack.

The commanders were attending the meeting which was held by leaders and heads of
provincial tribes.

"The recent meetings of the IRGC's commanders with leaders of local tribes which
had an effective role in restoration of unity between provincial Shi'i and Sunni
Muslims, have triggered anger of mercenaries of global arrogance and enemies of
Iran," Sayyah said.

He added that enemies of Iranians' unity were involved in the terrorist act.

Sayyah stressed that such moves would never have an effect on
Sistan-Baluchestan's Sunni and Shi'i Muslims.

The official stressed that the IRGC would keep on conducting similar meetings
with local tribal heads and leaders as well as provincial security and political
officials to cement unity and solidarity between provincial Sunni and Shi'i
Muslims.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1135 gmt 18 Oct
09

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday

Iran reports 50 injuries after Sistan-Baluchestan terrorist attack

LENGTH: 85 words


Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) reported at 1312 gmt on 18 October that
there have been 50 injuries as a result of today's suicide bomb attack in
Sistan-Baluchestan Province so far.

According to this report, quoting the dean of Zahedan Medical University, Mas'ud
Salehi, 42 injured people were admitted in Imam Ali hospital and seven in
Iranshahr hospital. Salehi added that another person with minor injuries was
treated and released.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency, Tehran, in Persian 1312 gmt 18 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 18, 2009 Sunday

Iran TV airs discussion on terrorist attack, role of UK, USA

LENGTH: 830 words


At 1917 gmt on 18 October, the Iranian TV Channel Two (IRTV2) began to broadcast
a recorded roundtable discussion on the terrorist attack in Sistan-Baluchestan
Province which took place today morning. The guests of the programme were Mr
Pashang, one of the Sunni MPs of Sistan-Baluchestan Province and Mr Kowsari, a
member of the Supreme National Security Council.

The programme started by a video report on the incident, followed by archive
footage of remarks by Abdol Hamid Rigi, Rigi terrorist group leader's brother,
saying that he was supported by the USA.

Commenting on the details of the incident, Pashang said that Sistan-Baluchestan
was a deprived province at the border and the "enemies" target for distorting
security in Iran. He added: "American's presence in Pakistan, and Pakistan's
policy in not paying attention to borders with the Islamic Republic, and lack of
providing its [Pakistan] people with services, have turned Pakistan into a safe
region for the enemies of the sacred system of the Islamic Republic,
particularly terrorists who can plan in the courtyard created for them by
Pakistanis and with the support of the Americans and disturb the honourable
people of the province [Sistan-Baluchestan] in a dastardly manner every now and
then."

Pashang continued on the cultural efforts by Brigadier-General Nur Ali
Shushtari, deputy head of the Guards ground forces, who was killed in the
terrorist attack, in creating solidarity in the province.

Kowsari also expressed his condolences and condemned the attack. Talking about
the attack by Rigi group, he said: "This dastardly and criminal act by the Rigi
group, with the support of the Americans and other factors in the region, as
explained by Mr Pashang, is because they cannot see this unity and solidarity."

He added that whenever the unity between Sunnis and Shi'is gets stronger, the
enemy takes an action to distort this unity.

There was a video link with commander Pakpur.

Pakpur said that commander Shushtari was about to enter the venue of a meeting
among leaders of tribes in the town of Sarbaz, when an individual who had
entered the section on handicrafts blew himself and killed commander Shushtari
and 39 other commanders.

Talking about disadvantages such as unemployment and poverty in
Sistan-Baluchestan Province, Pashang said: "Proclaimers of fighting terrorism,
and proclaimers of human rights, that is America, always use such excuses to
enter the boundaries of our countries and regions."

Pashang urged unity and cooperation for the development of Sistan-Baluchestan
Province, and to deprive the "enemy" of the chances to take any actions against
Iran. He also talked about the efforts of commander Shushtari with this regard.

Referring to 11 September incident, Kowsari said: "They [Americans] came to
Afghanistan in the name of fighting terrorism and then in Iraq. Did they destroy
terrorism or are there more terrorists now?... And then they had the slogan of
establishing human rights and democracy. What have they done?...They just take
peace away from people and just for their own interests. That's all they
consider. They never care about Sunnis, Shi'is, Iran or anyone else...Therefore,
they keep the individuals who can be useful to them under their wings so that
later on whenever they see that unity and solidarity is making good
progress...they would benefit from them." He further added that all the
government bodies will be following this up and the Pakistani officials should
be answerable for this issue, even though, "Americans are also plotting in
Pakistan. There have been many blasts, which have been attributed to Taleban or
Al-Qa'ida but in truth the Americans are creating insecurity."

In response to a question on the role of foreign countries and their espionage
services, Commander Pakpur said that such terrorists are trained and prepared in
neighbouring countries and they were mainly supported by the intelligence
services of foreign countries. He added: "Hegemonic powers are present as well,
[such as] UK, USA, and the intelligence services of UK and USA. Some people who
were arrested before have clearly confessed that they were trained and prepared
by the intelligence services of foreign countries." Pakpur added: "Who is
supporting Malek Rigi now? Who, which service is equipping and training Rigi:
The American services which are present in our neighbouring countries."

Pashand emphasized development of the province in preventing such incidents.

Commander Pakpur talked about the details of the burial ceremonies to be held on
19 October. He added that ceremonies will be held for commander Shushtari and
Mohammadzadeh, the commander of the Sistan-Baluchestan Guards Corps, in Tehran
and they will be buried in their birth place, Mashhad, the capital city of
Khorasan-Razavi Province. Various officials will attend the ceremonies.

The programme ended at 2121 gmt.

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 2, Tehran, in Persian
1917 gmt 18 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        The Observer (London)  (England)

                                October 18, 2009

UK bomb victim 'joyful' after winning aid battle: Government agrees to payouts
for those injured in terrorist attacks abroad

BYLINE: Ned Temko

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 624 words


A young London man facing life in a wheelchair after being injured in last
year's terrorist attack in Mumbai is finally going to get financial support
after a dramatic turnaround in government policy.

Will Pike, 29, who fell from the third floor of the Taj Hotel when a makeshift
escape rope of towels and curtains tore apart, reacted last night with
"surprise, relief and joy" to the news that he and dozens of other Britons hurt
in overseas terrorist attacks will be eligible for government help.

"The worst thing," he said, "has been the uncertainty - not knowing whether the
government was going to help, or whether we would have to try to raise funds
ourselves to allow us to rebuild and get on with our lives."

Pike and other British victims of earlier attacks in Bali, Turkey and the
Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh have been left without government help
because of a loophole in Britain's compensation law that excludes citizens who
are injured by terrorists abroad. They were eligible for a maximum £ 15,000
award from a government-backed Red Cross emergency fund.

The decision to give them the same kind of assistance as victims of the 7/7
bombings, bringing Britain into line with other major western countries, follows
a four-year campaign by MPs, peers and the victims' families.

The move came after personal intervention by Gordon Brown, government sources
said, and is expected to be announced later this month. Final funding details
are being worked out by a cabinet committee that includes Tessa Jowell, the
minister in charge of helping terror victims and a longtime supporter of the
change, with what was described as "crucial" support from the justice minister,
Jack Straw.

The announcement is likely to include a lifting of the current £ 500,000 upper
limit on compensation awards for all crime victims, with support determined on a
case-by-case basis according to the extent of injury.

The decision marks a major change of heart by key cabinet departments. They had
been resisting a change in the law until the Observer's account of Will Pike's
ordeal in Mumbai - where terrorists sought out British, US or Israeli citizens
to kill - gave new impetus to calls for a policy change.

Earlier in the summer, the ministerial committee finally agreed to close the
compensation loophole - but only for future cases. Warned of a "Gurkha-scale"
misjudgment by leaving the current victims uncovered, the prime minister is
understood to have pressed for the package to be retrospective.

Trevor Lakin, whose son Jeremy was killed in the 2005 terrorist attack in Sharm
el-Sheikh and has been a leading voice in the campaign, called the decision a
"welcome recognition of a duty not only to provide help to other victims who are
suffering, but an act of simple justice".

But he said his "celebration" of the change was tempered by frustration over the
time it had taken to achieve. "I can't understand how they had to ponder over
how they weren't looking after their own citizens," he said. "It has been so
difficult to get people to understand the damage that is caused to British
subjects who have been injured, blown up, blown apart, their lives destroyed.
Those people have suffered, and the years this has taken to resolve have caused
pain that they will have to live with for the rest of their lives."

The main Commons campaigner for compensation, the former Labour party chairman
Ian McCartney, praised the government for recognising, after a long battle, that
there should be "no two-tier system in Britain for citizens who fall victim to
terrorism. All citizens deserve the same level of dignity, justice and support."

How the Observer reported Will Pike's ordeal in May.

Will Pike, who was injured in Mumbai, with his partner, Kelly Doyle.


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        The Observer (London)  (England)

                                October 18, 2009

National: UK bomb victim 'joyful' after winning aid battle: Government agrees to
payouts for those injured in terrorist attacks abroad

BYLINE: Ned Temko

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 586 words


A young London man facing life in a wheelchair after being injured in last
year's terrorist attack in Mumbai is finally going to get financial support
after a dramatic turnaround in government policy.

Will Pike, 29, who fell from the third floor of the Taj hotel when a makeshift
escape rope of towels and curtains tore apart, reacted with "surprise, relief
and joy" last night to the news that he and dozens of other Britons hurt in
overseas terrorist attacks will be eligible for government help.

"The worst thing," he said, "has been the uncertainty - not knowing whether the
government was going to help, or whether we would have to try to raise funds
ourselves to allow us to rebuild and get on with our lives."

Pike and other British victims of earlier attacks in Bali, Turkey and the
Egyptian resort of Sharm el-Sheikh have been left without government help
because of a loophole in Britain's compensation law that excludes citizens who
are injured by terrorists abroad. They were only eligible for a maximum £ 15,000
award from a government-backed Red Cross emergency fund.

The decision to give them the same kind of assistance as victims of the 7/7
bombings, bringing Britain into line with other major western countries, follows
a four-year campaign by MPs, peers and the victims' families.

The move came after a personal intervention by Gordon Brown, government sources
said, and is expected to be announced this month. Final funding details are
being worked out by a cabinet committee that includes Tessa Jow ell, the
minister in charge of helping terror victims and a longtime supporter of the
change, with what was described as "crucial" support from the justice minister,
Jack Straw.

The announcement is likely to include a lifting of the current £ 500,000 upper
limit on compensation awards for all crime victims, with support determined on a
case-by-case basis according to the extent of injury.

The decision marks a major change of heart by key cabinet departments. They had
been resisting a change in the law until the Observer's account of Will Pike's
ordeal in Mumbai - where terrorists sought out British, US and Israeli citizens
to kill - gave new impetus to calls for a policy change.

In the summer, the ministerial committee finally agreed to close the
compensation loophole - but only for future cases. Warned of a "Gurkha-scale"
misjudgment by leaving the current victims uncovered, the prime minister is
understood to have pressed for the package to be retrospective.

Trevor Lakin, whose son Jeremy was killed in the 2005 terrorist attack in Sharm
el-Sheikh and has been a leading voice in the campaign, said the decision was
"an act of simple justice".

But he said his "celebration" of the change was tempered by frustration over the
time it had taken to achieve. "I can't understand how they had to ponder over
how they weren't looking after their own citizens," he said.

"It has been so difficult to get people to understand the damage that is caused
to British subjects who have been injured, blown up, blown apart, their lives
destroyed.

"Those people have suffered, and the years this has taken to resolve have caused
pain they will have to live with for the rest of their lives."

The main Commons campaigner for compensation, former Labour party chairman Ian
McCartney, praised the government for recognising, after a long battle, that
there should be "no two-tier system in Britain for citizens who fall victim to
terrorism. All citizens deserve the same level of dignity, justice and support."


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2009 Monday

Iran asks Pakistan's help in arresting terror attack extremists - website

LENGTH: 173 words


Text of report by Karachi-based private Pakistani channel Geo TV website on 19
October

Islamabad : Iranian Interior Minister called up his Pakistani counterpart Rehman
Malik and solicited help regarding arrest of the responsible for the terror
attack in Iran, the officials at Interior Ministry were quoted as saying.

Iran's minister Mustafa Muhammed Najjar said that extremist outfit Jondollah may
be involved in the terror incident and requested Malik for help in arrest of
extremist Abdulmalek Rigi.

Rehman Malik assured his Iranian counterpart Mustafa Muhammed Najjar of complete
cooperation for every possible help over terror incident in Iran which cost
several lives, saying Pakistan is extremely grieved over the terrorist attack in
Iran.

Pakistan will keep up the war against terrorism, as it is a victim of terrorism
and engaged in fight with extremists groups, Malik maintained.

Abdulmalek of Jondollah outfit is not present in Pakistan according to some
sources, Rehman said.

Source: Geo News TV website, Karachi, in English 19 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2009 Monday

Pakistan intelligence agencies fear new wave of terror attacks - paper

LENGTH: 331 words


Text of report by Imran Mukhtar headlined "Agencies fear new wave of terrorism"
published by Pakistan newspaper The Nation website on 19 October

Islamabad - The intelligence agencies on Sunday [18 October] feared a new wave
of terrorist attacks in near future on important government installations in
major cities of the country.

The intelligence agencies informed the Ministry of Interior that militants had
planned more terrorist attacks on the personnel of law enforcement agencies and
important government offices. Sources inside the ministry claimed that
intelligence agencies had sent a fresh report to the National Crisis Management
Cell (NCMC) of the ministry.

According to the report, some evidences found during the recently launched
military operation code-named Rah-e-Nejat showed that Tehrik-i-Taleban Pakistan
(TTP) factions Hakimullah Mehsud group and Amjad Farooqi group were planning to
intensify terrorist attacks in Islamabad, Rawalpindi, Lahore and Karachi in
upcoming days.

Report said that the military had found sufficient evidences including maps,
some objectionable jehadi material and some other clues found during the
interrogation of arrested terrorists during the operation clearly showed the
possibility of such attacks in future.

The ministry of Interior in this regard had written a letter to home departments
of the provinces as well as heads of law enforcement agencies and warned them
about such possible terrorist activities. They were advised to make foolproof
security arrangements for the buildings of law enforcement agencies as well as
important government installations located in the cities described above.

It is pertinent to mention here that terrorists had targeted the buildings of
Federal Investigation Agency (FIA), Manawan Police Training School and Elite
Police Headquarters, Bedian Road Lahore as well as in General Headquarters (GHQ)
in Rawalpindi during the last couple of weeks.

Source: The Nation website, Islamabad, in English 19 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2009 Monday

Terrorist linked to federal probe agency attack arrested in Pakistan's Lahore

LENGTH: 104 words


Text of unattributed report headlined "Terrorist involved in FIA offices attack
held" published by Pakistan newspaper The News website on 19 October

Lahore: Police arrested a terrorist in connection with the attack on the FIA
[Federal Investigating Agency] regional headquarters here on Sunday [18
October]. Samiullah, 28, had dropped the terrorists in a vehicle outside the FIA
headquarters before they launched the attack, a private TV channel reported. The
police arrested Samiullah at a check-post near the Campus Bridge and recovered
explosives from his possession.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 19 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2009 Monday

Syrian president sends condolences to Iranian counterpart over terror attack

LENGTH: 203 words


Text of report in English by state-run Syrian news agency SANA website

["President Al-Assad Condoles Iranian President on Victims of Terrorist
Aggression in Baluchistan, Expresses Syria's Conde" - SANA Headline]

Damascus, (SANA) -President Bashar al-Asad on Monday [19 Oct] sent a cable of
condolences to Iranian President Mahmud Ahmadinezhad.

In his cable, President al-Assad expressed heartfelt condolences to President
Ahmadinezhad and to the friendly Iranian people on the victims of the terrorist
attack that Sistan-Baluchistan were exposed to and wished a speedy recovery to
the injured.

President al-Asad expressed Syria's strong condemnation of this terrorist
aggression, stressing its firm approach that support all international efforts
in combating all kinds of terrorism.

Earlier, the Sunday terrorist attack in southeastern Iranian province of
Sistan-Baluchistan claimed the lives of 42 and injured 28 others and targeted a
meeting of the tribes attended by a number of commanders and forces of Iran
Revolutionary Guards.

Abdolmalek Rigi's terrorist group has claimed responsibility for the attack
according to a statement of Zahdan attorney general.

Source: SANA news agency website, Damascus in English 19 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2009 Monday

Iran interior minister blames Pakistan for "terrorist attack"

LENGTH: 95 words


On the sidelines of the cabinet meeting today a reporter asked Interior Minister
Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar whether he would visit Pakistan or not. In response
Najjar said: "We will look into making some kind of contact and express our
dissatisfaction with the Pakistani officials. We have good intelligence in hand
and know that some people are supporting them [referring to the Rigi group] from
the other side of the border and the Pakistani government should be held
accountable.

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
1042 gmt 19 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 19, 2009 Monday

Leader strongly condemns "terrorist attack" in south east Iran

LENGTH: 366 words


Text of report by state-run Iranian TV channel one on 19 October

The Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Khamene'i in a message expressed
his condolences over the martyrdom of tens of Sunni and Shi'i brothers and a
number of IRGC commanders especially commanders Shushtari and Mohammadzadeh and
stressed: The powerful hands of the Islamic system, will make those who assault
the lives, wealth and the security of the people pay for their treacherous acts.

The text of the statement is as follows: In the name of God. The crime by the
blood-sucking terrorists in Baluchestan more than ever before revealed the devil
faces of the enemies who are against unity and security and are being supported
by the spy organizations of certain arrogant government.

Martyring faithful devotees such as the brave and pious commander Ali Shushtari
and other commanders in that part of the country and tens of Sunni and Shi'i,
Fars and Baluch brothers is a crime against the Iranian nation especially
Baluchestan region. These pious human beings did their utmost for the security
and development of that region and were sincerely trying for [the progress of]
that region.

The enemies should know that these hostilities can not weaken the firm
determination of the nation and the officials in following the path of dignity
and pride which is the path of Islam and the fight against the battalion of
Satan and tarnish the unity and sympathy among various Iranian faiths.

The evil and humiliated mercenaries of the Global Arrogance should also know
that the powerful hand of the Islamic system will not give up defending the
security of that oppressed region and the faithful people of that area even for
a second and make those who assault the lives, wealth and security of the people
pay for their treacherous actions.

I express my condolences to the respected families of the victims of the
incidents especially commanders Shushtari and Mohammadzadeh and other IRGC
commanders and ask God to bestow them the highest position in heaven and heal
the wound of the injured.

Seyyed Ali Khamen'i 27 Mehr 1388 [19 October 09]

Source: Vision of the Islamic Republic of Iran Network 1, Tehran, in Persian
1530 gmt 19 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

Iran holds funeral ceremony for commander killed in "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 187 words


Text of report by Iranian conservative, privately-owned Fars News Agency website

Tehran, 20 October: A funeral ceremony started a few minutes ago for Brig-Gen
Nur Ali Shushtari, the deputy commander of the Ground Force of the Islamic
Revolution Guards Corps [IRGC], who was killed by terrorists on Sunday 26 Mehr
[18 October] in Sistan-Baluchestan. Senior commanders of the armed forces
including Major-Gen [Mohammad Ali] Ja'fari, Major-Gen [Gholamali] Rashid,
Major-Gen [Seyyed Yahya Rahim-] Safavi, Admiral [Ali] Shamkhani, a number of
Army commanders, and officials from the Defence Ministry are present at the
ceremony which is held in the Ground Force HQ of the IRGC.

Tehran Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf and Communication Minister [Reza] Taqipur
are present at the ceremony. Moreover, a great number of people from Tehran are
waiting outside to take part in the funeral procession of the martyred commander
of the Quds HQ of the IRGC.

At the moment, Hojjat ol-Eslam Sa'idi, the supreme leaders' representative at
the IRGC, are delivering a speech.

Source: Fars News Agency website, Tehran, in Persian 0610 gmt 20 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

Iran asks Security Council to condemn recent "terrorist" attack

LENGTH: 239 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

New York, 20 October: Iran's Ambassador to UN here Monday [19 October] delivered
a letter to rotating head of Security Council asking that body and international
community's condemnation of Sunday [18 October] bloody terrorist attack in
country's Sistan-Baluchestan Province.

Mohammad Khaza'i has in his letter referred to the martyrdom of 57 Iranian
citizens and getting wounded of 150 others in Sunday attack.

He emphasized that thus the message would be conveyed to the Jondollah terrorist
group and their supporters through the UN Security Council that resorting to
terrorist moves is of all types is condemned no matter who resorts to them and
who supports them.

Iran's ambassador to UN adds, "The Security Council's message can somehow sooth
the pains of the bereaved families of this incident's victims."

Khaza'i has also reiterated our country's determination to bring to a court of
justice the criminals of such terrorist attacks, asking the international
community and the neighbouring countries, too, to heed their respective
responsibilities.

The UN Secretary General issued a strongly worded communiqué 233; on Monday
condemning the attack and sympathizing with the bereaved families of the
terrorist move and the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 0340 gmt 20 Oct
09

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

Afghan paper says terrorist attack in Iran danger alarm for entire world

LENGTH: 313 words


Text of analytical report entitled: "If terrorism is not contained, no country
would be saved" by Afghan independent secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on 19
October

The latest suicide attack in Iran left around 60 dead and wounded. According to
reports, some commanders of the Guardian Forces and Sunni and Shi'i elders were
targeted in the attack. The Iranian official news agency has said that it was a
suicide attack.

The armed opponents of the Iranian government have carried out kidnappings and
bomb explosions in the past, but it is the first suicide attack in Iran.

This shows that now suicide attacks in Iraq and Afghanistan have turned to a
common practice for terrorist groups in several countries.

The Islamic Republic of Iran has only witnessed suicide attacks in Afghanistan,
but now it seems that recklessness about this phenomenon can endanger all the
countries in the world.

Now, in addition to Afghanistan, other countries are also giving sacrifices for
the Taleban and Al-Qa'idah activities. It is obvious that if terrorism is not
contained today in Afghanistan, it would not only endanger the regional
countries but it would turn to a serious threat to any country in any part of
the world.

Now that Pakistan is burning in fire of terrorism or sign of terrorism is
observed in Iran, this threat should be considered seriously and efforts should
be made to dismantle its main nests in Afghanistan through a new strategy.

Even though developments in other countries stem from their internal problems
and challenges, using the Taleban and Al-Qa'idah tactics can be a danger alarm
for the entire world.

This incident is important not only for Iran but for all the regional countries
and that serious steps should be taken to prevent terrorism from spreading.
Terrorism should not be considered as a tool and political game.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari 19 Oct 09 p 1

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

Pakistani TV show discusses surge in terror attacks

LENGTH: 1180 words


Karachi Geo News in Urdu at 1305 GMT on 15 October relays daily current affairs
program "Crisis Cell" hosted by Sana Bucha, a working journalist. The program
features an expert analysis on major issues. Words within double slant lines are
spoken in English.

Program: Crisis Cell

Reception: Good

Duration: 30 minutes

Bucha begins the program saying: "It has been a bloody Thursday in Lahore and
Peshawar. The wave of terrorism has gone up at a time when we were expecting a
respite after a successful operation in Swat. Are they [terrorists]
//reorganizing// and //regrouping// after that set back?"

Bucha establishes a telephone link with ANP [Awami National Party] leader
Senator Nabi Bangash in Peshawar and asks him if the attacks in Lahore and
Peshawar are a //backlash// of the proposed operation in Waziristan. Bangash
says: "Since the operation has been //delayed// for unknown reasons, there is a
backlash in the big cities. It is time to carry out an //operation// similar to
the one in Swat. They should not be allowed to //reorganize//; otherwise, the
//operation// in Waziristan will be even more difficult. If they [terrorists]
had been engaged in North and South Waziristan, their capacity to attack in big
cities would have been curtailed."

Bucha asks: "Politicians call for //operation//, but an //initial period// is
needed to plan a //military campaign// and to decide when and how a similar
//campaign// can be launched most effectively." Bangash says: "The //situation//
is on for quite a long time now, and it can be safely pointed out that the enemy
should not be given //time// to //reorganize// anywhere; otherwise, they will be
giving a tough time to the Army during the operation. They are on the
//offensive// because we are //defensive//. In fact, after Swat they should have
been chased and wiped out on the run."

Bucha asks: "Do the political //statements// about the operation cause problems
for the Army?"

Bangash says: "We have no other //option// but the //Army operation// just as we
had none in Swat. We need not put them on the //alert// by //announcing// the
attack and doing nothing in time. It gives them //time// to //consolidate their
positions// making the operation even more difficult in Waziristan and the
backlash in big cities more severe."

Bucha asks: "//Victories// have to be //consolidated// before launching a //new
offensive//. What about //consolidating// the situation in Swat?" Bangash says:
"Our educational institutions have opened and the provincial //civil
administration// has returned and is fully //operative//. Swat problem is 90
percent solved except for the smaller incidents, which we can manage on our
own."

Bucha asks: "How to make Peshawar //safe// because it is the //gateway// to
Punjab Province and has been attacked for a third time in a week." Bangash says:
"Peshawar is near FATA [Federally Administered Tribal Areas] from where
//militants// keep on coming to the settled areas. They are //well-organized//
and //well-trained// people. Our province has no //resources// to //counter//
them, but we are doing our best. We have not //given up// to the will of the
//militants//and, we are as //defiant// as ever."

Bucha establishes a video link with former Interior Minister Aftab Ahmed Khan
Sherpao in Peshawar, and asks: "How are the //new emerging strategies// of the
TTP [Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan] creating problems because initially their
targets were prominent //personalities// and now they are focusing on//sensitive
institutions// as well?" Sherpao says: "The political //personalities,
institutions, sensitive buildings// and //the law enforcing agencies// had
always been their //targets//. There is no //shift// in that respect as such.
The GHQ [General Headquarters] attack shows that they seek //high-value
targets// and try to take people //hostages//. They try to continue //action//
for some time and kill as many people as possible to gain the attention of the
//media// and to create maximum// commotion and disturbance//."

Bucha asks: "Is it the backlash of the Swat operation or as a //new front// in
Waziristan is about to open, similar attacks are //show of strength// to have
that operation stopped or //delayed//?" Sherpao says: "The basic reason is the
Swat operation, and the proposed //operation// in Waziristan where //aerial
attacks// have gained pace. Second reason is the US policy in the region. The
Kerry-Lugar Bill has given us a road map of operations in a number of other
areas. The militants are reacting as much as they can. It can be the backlash of
the incident in the Indian High Commission in Kabul."

Bucha says: "Aqeel, alias Dr Usman, was caught by the present government. So the
//intelligence system// has improved." Sherpao says: "He was not so prominent in
our times. There is //information// that he was caught in the Marriot incident,
but he got away somehow. The basic thing is that //intelligence agencies// work
in their respective //compartments// and lack //coordination// and
//information//. All agencies should be taken //on board// and the information
must be channelized through one authority. That authority should be established
to //examine// the complete //picture// to make it easier to //identify the
groups// involved in the //acts of terrorism//. Another weakness lies in the
//investigation//department. Very often //joint investigation teams// are
constituted but the //investigation// is not taken to //culmination//. The
//local facilitators// must be //discovered// because without them nothing is
possible."

Bucha establishes a video link with Afzal Shigri, former inspector general of
the Sind Police, in Islamabad, and asks: "Is the problem with the
//coordination// and //investigation// between //intelligence agencies//? What
new //strategy// has been adopted so that we could stop them //midtrack//?"
Shigri replies: "Many incidents have been stopped //midtrack//, but the //law
enforcing agencies// and //security agencies// cannot tell the details because
of //security reasons//. Many people have been arrested and the
//interrogation// resulted in the //dismantling of the whole structure// and a
number of serious incidents have been averted. We need to improve our
//intelligence system// and a better //coordination// and //exchange of
information// can achieve desirable results."

Bucha asks: "Mistakes have to be minimized as the terrorists are improving their
//tactics//. For example, instead of //suicide bombing//, now they are taking
people //hostage//. What changes can be brought about to //counter// them in a
//better way//?" Shigri says: "It is not a //conventional warfare// as there is
no Army in //uniform// to be //confronted//. They can use all //deceptive//
measures to create a //situation// in which we are taken by //surprise//. We
need to improve our //intelligence// and to take that //element of surprise// in
our own hands to carry out //preemptive strikes// to demolish their
//structures// at their own place."

Bucha concludes the program.

Source: Geo TV, Karachi, in Urdu 1305gmt 15 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

Iran urges UNESCO to react strongly to terrorist attack

LENGTH: 138 words


Text of report in English by Iranian official government news agency IRNA
website

Paris, 20 October: Iran's permanent representative to UNESCO forwarded a letter
on Tuesday [20 October] to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization urging it to make strong reaction to the terrorist attack
occurred in southeast of Iran on 18 October.

Pointing to one of the UNESCO's objectives that is to combat any violence, the
representative has called in the letter on the organization to deal firmly with
this terrorist act.

The terrorist event in the province of Sistan-Baluchestan led to the martyrdom
of a number of top IRGC [Islamic Revolution Guards Corps] commanders, provincial
tribal leaders and some ordinary people on Sunday.

Source: Islamic Republic News Agency website, Tehran, in English 1055 gmt 20 Oct
09

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  M2 PressWIRE

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

United Nations: Secretary-General Condemns Deadly Terrorist Attacks in Southern
Iran

LENGTH: 105 words


Condemns Deadly Terrorist Attacks in Southern Iran

Following is a statement issued today by the Spokesperson for UN
Secretary-General Bank Ki-moon:

The Secretary-General strongly condemns yesterday's terrorist attacks
in the Sistan-Baluchistan province of Iran, which resulted in the death
of a large number of people and many injured. He extends his
condolences to the families of the victims and to the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Iran, and wishes those injured a full recovery.

((M2 Communications disclaims all liability for information provided
within
information on
on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire

JOURNAL-CODE: M2P


                      Copyright 2009 Normans Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Wirral Globe

                            October 20, 2009 Tuesday

Rottweiler attack terror for Wirral family

BYLINE: Stephanie Cureton

SECTION: NEWS (WIRRALNEWS)

LENGTH: 272 words


A DOG owner has been left traumatised after seeing one of his pets killed in a
horrible turn of events after being attacked by two on-the-loose Rottweilers.

Grandfather Kenny Phillips was on Pensby Road, Greasby, last Thursday evening
walking his pet dogs Charlie, a terrier, and his spaniel, Jess, when the two
larger unaccompanied animals ran towards them.

The Rottweilers - believed to have been reported escaped from their owner's
garden - then tried to attack the smaller dogs as Mr Phillips, from Greasby,
attemped to shield them.

Mr Phillips' wife Christine told the Globe: "Kenny was desperately trying to
keep the Rottweilers away from Charlie and Jess. He scooped both of them up and
put one over each of his shoulders as the Rottweilers kept jumping up at him."

He then placed his pets on a high wall out of the Rottweilers' reach - which was
when tragedy struck.

"Poor Charlie was obviously so terried that he leapt off the wall to get away
from the Rottweilers," said Christine.

"But as he took fright he ran straight out into the traffic on Pensby Road and
was instantly hit by a car. The poor thing didn't stand a chance."

The larger animals then ran away.

Mrs Phillips said her husband was not physically hurt in the attack but was
extremely traumatised. "We just can't believe it," she said.

"We're devastated. And you can only shudder to think what the consequences may
have been had there been a child with them."

Police explained that no actual offence had taken place.

A spokeswoman said the dogs were reunited with their owner within 30 minutes of
them being reported missing. "It was a very unfortunate incident," she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 21, 2009 Wednesday

Indian PM concerned over reports of imminent terror attacks

LENGTH: 932 words


Text of report by independent Indian daily The Asian Age website on 21 October

New Delhi, Oct. 20: Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, addressing the tri-services
combined commanders' conference on Tuesday [ 20 October], warned that there were
regular intelligence reports warning of imminent (terror) attacks in the
country, and this was a matter of deep concern.

"There are regular intelligence reports of imminent attacks in the country. This
is a matter of deep concern, and there is no room for complacency. The terrorist
attack on our embassy in Kabul on October 8 is yet another grim reminder of the
forces we are pitted against. The overall situation in our immediate
neighbourhood has worsened since I last spoke to you," the Prime Minister told
senior commanders of the three armed services.

"The armed forces must be fully equipped to deal with all threat scenarios. Our
troops should be trained to fight anywhere, anytime and under any conditions.
Their ability to deal with non-traditional threats must receive greater
attention," the Prime Minister said. Several senior Union ministers who are
members of the Cabinet Committee on Security - defence minister A.K. Antony,
finance minister Pranab Mukherjee and home minister P. Chidambaram - also
addressed the conference.

The Prime Minister, reiterating his view that Naxalite [maoist] violence was the
biggest threat to India's internal security, called for more inclusive growth
and development approach.

On China, Dr Singh is understood to have noted that a political process was on
with that country to create greater trust, and indicated that border issues
could take some more time to resolve. The Prime Minister emphasised that India
needed to be vigilant in this regard.

Government sources pointed out that India had a rather complex relationship with
China though the country had to take note of some recent actions by China which
have not been to India's liking.

The menace of terrorism found repeated mention in the Prime Minister's speech.
"The nation also witnessed the horrific terrorist attack on Mumbai, and we will
be observing its first anniversary in a few weeks from now. The Mumbai attack
confirmed our worst fears about the lethal dimensions of terrorism and
non-traditional threats to our security," Dr Singh said.

"There are both state and non-state actors involved in the business of
terrorism. India is a democracy and an open society and is, therefore, sometimes
highly vulnerable. We have to improve our defensive mechanisms against all forms
of terrorism, asymmetric warfare and aggravated militancy. We need to be
prepared to face onslaughts of this kind, but we should avoid knee-jerk
reactions," Dr Singh added.

India's position on nuclear disarmament was also reiterated by the Prime
Minister. "There is a revival of interest on nuclear disarmament and
non-proliferation issues. We welcome this, because India was a pioneer in the
campaign for a nuclear weapons-free world. We, however, have to ensure that
discriminatory standards and approaches are not perpetuated. As a responsible
nuclear weapon state, we wish to see nuclear disarmament that is global,
non-discriminatory and universal in nature. We are ready to negotiate a Fissile
Material Cut-off Treaty which is multilateral, non-discriminatory and
verifiable," he said.

Addressing the commanders, the Prime Minister heaped lavish praise on the
contributions by all three services in safeguarding the country's unity and
territorial integrity. He pledged that the government was fully committed to
modernisation of the armed forces, and acknowledged that the forces were
concerned about the (elaborate and laborious) procedures for defence
acquisitions and procurement.

"Our government is fully committed to modernisation of the armed forces and
ensuring their military superiority and technological edge. The modernisation
plan should have a long-term perspective, and be formulated in an integrated
manner involving all three services," Dr Singh said, and added: "I am aware that
procedures for defence acquisitions and procurement are a matter of concern to
the ar med forces. This is an area which requires collective action on all
sides. We must ensure a balance between the needs of timely modernisation and
the necessity of conforming to the highest standards of transparency, probity
and public accountability."

Acknowledgi ng the need for the armed forces to attract the brightest and best
in society, the Prime Minister said: "Manpower is the most important resource
for war fighting. We will take all measures necessary to ensure that the armed
forces continue to attract the brightest and the best of our youth."

Emphasising the need for self-reliance, Dr Singh said: "The availability of
critical technologies from foreign countries is still subject to various
technology-denial regimes."

With the holding of the combined commanders' conference on Tuesday, the stage is
set now for the start of the individual commanders' conferences of the three
services, which will be held at different venues in New Delhi from Wednesday.

The Army commanders' conference, for instance, will be held from October 21 to
24 and chaired by Army Chief Gen. Deepak Kapoor. "The operational preparedness
of the Army will be reviewed by the top commanders to include the operational
plans and modernisation of weapons and equipment proposed and in progress," Army
sources said. "The conference will also deliberate on the security situation
prevalent in the country and neighbouring countries," the sources added.

Source: The Asian Age website, Delhi, in English 21 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 21, 2009 Wednesday

Pakistan report says university terror attacks tragic "beyond description"

LENGTH: 439 words


Text of report by Afshan S. Khan headlined "A tragedy beyond description"
published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 21 October

Islamabad: Students of the Women's Campus of International Islamic University
(IIU) in Sector H-10 had a harrowing experience on Tuesday [20 Oct] when
dastardly terrorists hit them with full force, not once but twice, as if with a
vengeance.

Who knew that the students who went to the university to study as usual would be
carried back home dead or rushed to the hospital in critical condition? The
attack on the university, where Shariah is being taught, speaks volumes about
the character of terrorists. That innocent girls were made the target is the
most despicable factor in this war of terror. The university has separate
campuses for boys and girls. Why should one target such a university? This is
tragic beyond description, to say the least.

Schools and colleges in Rawalpindi and Islamabad have already been closed for a
week and now it is the turn of universities to review the situation and take a
suitable decision.

One of the senior faculty members of IIU, on condition of anonymity, told 'The
News' that at the time of the blast, mostly girls, who are day scholars or those
who have classes of Shariah, Law and Management Sciences, stayed back in the
university. The blast took place at around 3:15 p.m. Most students leave the
campus between 1:30 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. "There would have been more casualties if
the blast occurred at around 1:30 p.m. which is the peak hour for lunch.

Another senior faculty member said that men are not allowed to enter the women's
campus as well as the cafeteria, which is located opposite to the main gate of
the university. Each and every student is checked for his or her identity before
entering the building. Even female and male faculty members are checked
thoroughly. The suicide bomber blew himself up at the entrance of the cafeteria.

IIU Vice President Parveen Qadir Agha, while talking to 'The News,' said that
they had no security threat whatsoever. She said that they had never imagined
that the university would become a target for such an unfortunate incident. "It
is a peaceful university with thousands of students from 45 countries. Our
security guard stopped the suicide bomber at the entrance but he blew himself
up," she said.

She said: "We had already put barriers and started checking IDs of students and
faculty members as a precautionary measure. The hostels will remain open but the
university will remain closed for four days. Classes will resume from Monday,"
she said.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 21 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Europe - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 21, 2009 Wednesday

Risk of terrorist attack on Czechs not acute, but possible - police

LENGTH: 632 words


Text of report in English by Czech national public-service news agency CTK

Prague, 21 October: The risk of terrorist attacks on the Czech Republic is not
"acute" but it is "completely realistic," the police organized crime squad
(UOOZ) says in its annual report for 2008 released on its web page today.

The report also writes that ultra-right supporters are turning more radical in
the Czech Republic.

The report reminds that the Czech Republic is part of the EU and the West, and
this is why terrorists perceive it as one of their potential targets.

The UOOZ points out that even small countries might become a target of
terrorists, citing the example of Denmark. The Danish secret services last year
warned against potential al-Qaeda-organized attacks planned in Denmark.

"The Czech Republic is considered part of the world anti-terrorist coalition, it
is active in international missions with the aim to provide safety and restore
normal life (for instance in Afghanistan)," the UOOZ annual report says.

The report mentions another risk for the Czech Republic as it might become "a
safe country" for terrorists and radicals where they could develop their
"support and logistic activities."

The Czech military intelligence service drew similar conclusions in its latest
annual report.

The UOOZ is monitoring all criminal activities that may be connected with
extremists or terrorists, the report says.

These groups are involved in "common crime" to gain money, equipment and false
documents that are used for promoting extremist ideas and possibly for terrorist
acts.

"The major challenge is to prevent the radicalisation and possible recruitment
of followers, primarily in the case of terrorist groups whose ideology is based
on misinterpreting Islam," the UOOZ report says.

It notes that an increased interest in illicit trade in hazardous substances,
mainly radioactive and nuclear material, might be expected with regard to the
economic crisis.

In another section of the report the UOOZ writes that ultra-right supporters in
the Czech Republic became more radical last year and they did not hesitate to
openly fight with the police representing state power.

The major change within the ultra right in 2008 was the effort of more people to
enter the political scene.

Experts point to links between ultra-right radicals and the Workers' Party (DS)
the abolition of which the government has been seeking.

The UOOZ also warns that extremists may abuse the economic crisis and social
tension. They are expected to organize protest marches and other events
connected with attacks on minorities and foreigners.

The UOOZ report points out that participants in extremist events used violence
more often.

Last year, ultra-right groupings staged 39 demonstrations and marches, most of
which were organized by the National Resistance movement and Autonomous
Nationalists.

The number of "white power music" concerts increased from 25 in 2007 to 34 last
year.

The police also succeeded in uncovering more local and minor extremist events
than in the past.

In connection with 11 concerts of neo-Nazi bands, the UOOZ arrested ten radicals
in June and accused them of support and promotion of groups suppressing human
rights and freedoms.

According to the police, all accused are members of the neo-Nazi National
Resistance movement.

The UOOZ detectives today launched an extensive raid against rightist
extremists, carrying out home searches in various parts of the Czech Republic.

Out of ultra-left movements, the UOOZ report deals only with the Anti-fascist
Action (AFA) describing it as militant. The AFA's activities have changed -
instead of staging public events the organization focuses on short targetted
attacks on ultra-right protagonists, the report says.

Source: CTK news agency, Prague, in English 1023 gmt 21 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 21, 2009 Wednesday

Israeli army 21 Oct "air-based terror attack" drill unrelated to current events

LENGTH: 141 words


Text of report in English by privately-owned Israeli daily The Jerusalem Post
website on 21 October

[OSC Transcribed Text] [Report by Ya'aqov Lappin: "Air Force Simulates Aerial
Terror Attack in South"]

The Air Force staged a simulation of what it described as "an air-based terror
attack" over the skies of southern Israel on Wednesday. Some of the participants
were not told of the drill ahead of time, in order to test their responses. Air
Force commanders and operational staff, as well as the political decision-making
echelon, were asked to respond to the drill.

The IDF Spokesperson Unit said the military "will continue do all that is
necessary to protect Israeli residents and safeguard the skies. The drill was
planned in advance and has no bearing to any current events."

Source: The Jerusalem Post website, Jerusalem, in English 21 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday

New security plan in place in Pakistan's Peshawar following terror attacks

LENGTH: 652 words


Text of report by Javed Aziz Khan headlined "New security arrangements for
Peshawar in place" published by Pakistani newspaper The News website on 22
October

Peshawar: A new security circle has been erected around the provincial capital
with deployment of more police contingents at 39 entry points leading to the
urban town, right from Hayatabad Township up to the Charsadda Road.

The city was presenting a completely different look after erecting barriers on
all the routes, leading towards the urban Peshawar, to stop the entry of suicide
bombers and explosive-laden cars.

The decision was taken after successive bombings and suicide attacks during the
past few weeks. The fresh terror wave began after talk of military operation in
Waziristan started last month.

The city was struck on four occasions with major explosions since 26 September.
The first was a suicide attack on Fakhar-e-Alam Road in cantonment, which killed
11 people and injured several others.

Again, terrorists hit the city on 9 October with a huge suicide blast in
Soekarno Square in Khyber Bazaar. The blast proved to be the deadliest ever in
the city that killed 55 people and injured over 100 others.

Terror visited the city on October 15 and 16 consecutively, with a blast in
Gulshan-e-Rahman Colony Kohat Road and again at the building of special
investigation unit (SIU) in Swati Phatak. One person was killed in the first
attack while 15 were killed in the last one where many cops were also killed and
wounded.

"We have placed a complete circle across the city to protect the town from any
kind of terrorist attack," Capital City Police Officer (CCPO) Liaqat Ali told
The News. The city police chief was all praise for his cops positioned on the
barriers, saying despite threats and extra burden they were doing a wonderful
job without any fear to secure the public. "The security measures have also
brought down the rate of kidnapping in the city as criminals don't find any way
to escape after committing a crime," he claimed.

Barricades had already been erected on various entry points to the city for the
past few years. Even walls were constructed to completely block certain roads
and streets in cantonment. However, the arrangements were further improved to
make sure that no suspicious vehicle enters the city limits.

"At least 39 entry points to the city were identified on Ring Road between
Hayatabad and Charsadda Road. We are trying to make sure that entry of
suspicious vehicles through all these routes is blocked," said Mohammad Alam
Shinwari, the senior superintendent of police (SSP) Coordination Peshawar.

The step has largely been appreciated by the public, which just demanded of the
top bosses to order the cops to be polite and decent while searching any vehicle
or individual.

"We know they are overburdened and are doing a great job in this critical
situation. However, rude and insulting attitude by some cops not only anger the
commuters but would also end the sympathies that the public has developed for
the force in the recent situation," asked a motorist, Humayun Amjad.

Rumours and bomb hoaxes continued to circulate all over the city on Wednesday,
resulting in thin presence of people in trade hubs and offices. The impact of
the recent blasts and in rumours of more attacks has severely affected the
routine business in Peshawar.

The Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) building in the cantonment was circled
by heavy contingents of police commandoes after the bomb hoax. The officials
inside the building were directed to vacate the building, after which the
experts of bomb disposal unit carried out a detailed search. However, nothing
was recovered. Schools, colleges and universities, both in public and private
sectors, were closed after invisible threats and twin suicide blast inside the
International Islamic University in Islamabad.

Source: The News website, Islamabad, in English 22 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                 BBC Monitoring Former Soviet Union - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday

Terror attacks in Russia's North Caucasus up 57 per cent - chief investigator

LENGTH: 212 words


Text of report by corporate-owned Russian news agency Interfax

St Petersburg, 22 October: The head of the Investigations Committee under the
prosecutor's office of the Russian Federation [SKP], Aleksandr Bastrykin, has
noted a rise in the number of terrorist acts in the North Caucasus this year.

"In the North Caucasus, the number of terrorist crimes is still not declining.
This year, 513 of such crimes have been registered," Aleksandr Bastrykin said at
an SKP meeting in St Petersburg on Thursday [22 October].

According to him, "the number of terrorist acts has grown by 57 per cent".

Bastrykin stressed that the SKP's best investigators were working in Ingushetia,
Dagestan and North Ossetia and that the federal group of these investigators was
over 300-strong.

On the whole, speaking about the countrywide crime statistics for [the first]
nine months [of 2009], the head of the SKP said that the number of registered
crimes dropped by 6 per cent to 2.3m in total, with 1.3m crimes solved.

According to Bastrykin, the crime rate has dropped in 65 regions while in 18
regions, in particular in North Ossetia, the Nenets Autonomous Area, Kamchatka
Territory and Kemerovo Region, the situation has worsened.

Source: Interfax news agency, Moscow, in Russian 0658 gmt 22 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Boston arrest 'thwarted terror attack'

BYLINE: David Usborne IN NEW YORK

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 237 words


DECLARING THAT a domestic terrorism threat had been thwarted, US prosecutors
have announced the arrest of a Massachusetts man who was allegedly part of a
conspiracy to kill Americans in shopping malls, and US soldiers in Iraq as well
as target two prominent politicians for assassination.

Acting US Attorney Michael Loucks said that the man, Tarek Mehanna, had been
arrested in the early morning at his home in Sudbury, west of Boston. He said
that between 2001 and 2008 Mr Mehanna sought - but had never received - training
in terrorist camps abroad and had worked with others to carry out their plans.

The alleged conspiracy involved two other men, one who is unnamed and was said
to be cooperating with the authorities and another believed to be in Syria.

Mr Mehanna, 27, had "multiple conversations about obtaining automatic weapons
and randomly shooting people in shopping malls", said Mr Loucks. He would not
identify any malls that may have been targeted. Nor would officials say which US
politicians had been singled out by the group, but they indicated that they had
been in the executive branch of the administration of former President George
Bush.

Mr Mehanna, a US citizen, was arrested last November and charged with lying to
the FBI in 2006, about the whereabouts of another man, Daniel Maldonado, who is
now serving a 10-year sentence for training alongside members of al-Qa'ida to
overthrow the Somali government.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2009 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                          Press Association Mediapoint

                     October 22, 2009 Thursday 5:38 PM BST

TERRORIST ASSASSIN CONVICTED OF ATTACKING WOMEN

BYLINE: David Young, Press Association

SECTION: HOME NEWS

LENGTH: 1277 words


Notorious loyalist killer Torrens Knight was today found guilty of assaulting
two sisters in a vicious bar room attack in Northern Ireland.

The terrorist assassin, who was convicted of 12 murders during the troubles,
including those of eight people in the infamous Greysteel massacre, could now
see his early release under the Good Friday peace agreement revoked.

A district judge in Coleraine Magistrates' Court convicted Knight of punching
Caroline Nicholl to the ground and then kicking her before turning his fists on
her sister Rosemary Sutherland inside the Blackthorn bar in the County
Londonderry town last May.

Knight was a member of the Ulster Freedom Fighters gang that burst into the
Rising Sun bar in Greysteel, County Londonderry on Halloween in 1993 and opened
fire.

The killings are always associated with the chilling ``trick or treat'' phrase
shouted by one of the gunmen before they started shooting.

Knight was also convicted of the murders of four Catholic builders in the nearby
town of Castlerock earlier that year.

Given 12 life sentences he was released in 2000 as part of the historic peace
deal.

Both sisters today described how 40-year-old Knight, from Ashdale, Coleraine,
had confronted them inside the bar and declared he had some ``unfinished
business'' to sort out with them.

Ms Nicholl said she told him to 'f*** off'.

``The next thing I knew he had hit me in the face,'' she told Judge Austin
Kennedy.

She said he then proceeded to kick her all over her body while she was on the
ground.

Her sister Ms Sutherland said Knight then turned his aggression on her when she
attempted to intervene.

``I tried to push him away from my sister and then he closed his fist and hit me
in the face a couple of times,'' she said.

During the day-long trial, it was revealed that in the wake of the incident
Knight had admitted to police that he struck the women, albeit he alleged in
self-defence.

He told officers when interviewed: ``If a woman is big enough to punch she's big
enough to get punched back - that's my view.''

But Judge Kennedy rejected the loyalist's claim that he had only 'lashed out'
after Ms Sutherland threw the first punch.

``I don't accept he was protecting himself,'' he said.

Convicting him on two counts of aggravated assault and one of disorderly
behaviour, Mr Kennedy postponed sentencing until reports were filed.

The decision on whether to revoke his early release licence is a matter for the
government.

The court had heard that there had been a long-running dispute between the
sisters and the family of Knight's wife.

The multiple murderer claimed he had approached Ms Nicholl in a bid to end the
row.

He said he chose a public place because he feared that because of his past
criminal record if he had gone to her home he would have been accused of
intimidation.

Telling Judge Kennedy that he was a teetotaller, he said Ms Nicholl had launched
a verbal tirade on him when he walked across the bar to speak to her.

``Caroline immediately said f*** off and said 'Your wife's nothing but a tramp
and you're nothing but a murdering scumbag b******'.''

Knight, dressed in a light and dark blue striped hooded jumper, jeans and
appearing to have put on a significant amount of weight since his release from
prison, alleged Ms Sutherland then arrived on the scene and punched him without
warning.

``I think I instinctively went to protect myself,'' he said, ``I'd say I lashed
out but I can't detail what happened.''

He then told the court that he did not look for confrontation, he was trying to
put his past behind him and did not actively seek out trouble any more.

``I appreciate getting out of prison early,'' he said. ``It's just a second
chance in life and I'm just trying to do the best I can. I'd rather try to help
someone than do them a disservice.''

Prosecution lawyer Michael Chambers dismissed these sentiments and told Knight
he was a ruthless individual who would not have any qualms about inflicting
injuries on anyone.

``The real reason you went over (to Ms Nicholl) was to act the hard man,'' he
said. ``When you didn't get the respect you thought you deserved you decided to
teach them a lesson.''

Judge Kennedy had been shown pictures documenting the women's injuries that were
taken by the police hours after the bar room incident.

Both sisters sustained black eyes and other bruising.

Defence lawyer Francis Rafferty had put it to Ms Sutherland that her injuries
were not inflicted by Knight but instead during an altercation with another
woman in the bar later in the night.

The woman in question, Frances McKirgan, later took the stand and told the court
that she had head-butted Ms Sutherland in the nose in the middle of the bar.

``I caught her by the arms and head-butted her in the face,'' she said.

Ms McKirgan said she had come forward because she didn't want someone else -
namely Knight - to take the blame for injuries she caused.

But the witness was challenged by both the judge and Mr Chambers when she
claimed that she hadn't seen any of the earlier incident involving Knight even
though she said she had been in the bar since 8pm.

The prosecutor said the only reason she had come to court was to undermine the
evidence of Ms Sutherland with whom she had a festering feud.

``You are only here to get one up on her, aren't you,'' he asked.

But Mr Rafferty asked why someone would potentially incriminate themselves in a
court of law just to spite a rival.

Judge Kennedy, however, rejected her testimony as ``unsatisfactory''.

He said evidence presented by bar doorman Joel Dunlop, who substantiated
Knight's account of events, was also not convincing.

Mr Dunlop had claimed that he had seen Ms Sutherland throw the punch and that
the sisters had only fallen on the ground after a bar manager tried to drag them
away from Knight.

However, prosecutor Mr Chambers had claimed there were startling similarities in
terms of phraseology and choice of words between the testimonies of Knight and
the bouncer.

``Did you sit down with Mr Knight and plan out what you were going to say today?
he asked.

The doorman responded that he was only giving his version of events.

``I'm just telling you what I've seen,'' he said.

Ms Sutherland had broken down in tears as she gave evidence at the opening of
the trial this morning.

Under cross-examination by Mr Rafferty she stumbled over certain aspects of her
evidence, including how much she had actually had to drink on the night and
whether or not she had had a confrontation with Ms McKirgan.

The defence lawyer also claimed there were inconsistencies in the accounts of
each sister as to what had taken place.

At the conclusion of the prosecution's evidence he asked Judge Kennedy to rule
Knight had no case to answer, such were the alleged holes in the testimonies.

After retiring to consider the submission, Judge Kennedy rejected it and let the
trial proceed.

Prosecutor Mr Chambers said the differences between the two sisters' evidence
were slight and minor and were to be wholly expected given the length of time
which had passed since the event.

In contrast, he said, the apparent striking similarities between Knight and Mr
Dunlop's testimonies was actually less convincing.

Knight was released on bail to appear again at a sentencing hearing on November
7.

East Londonderry Assembly member John Dallat, who accompanied the sisters to
court, said the verdict opened the way for Knight's early release licence to be
rescinded.

``I am very pleased with today's outcome,'' he said afterwards. ``I would like
to praise the courage and fortitude of these two women for pursuing this case
and taking the stand today.''

Knight shielded his face as he left court accompanied by a number of supporters.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


                  Copyright 2009 The Press Association Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 23, 2009 Friday

Anonymous letter threatens terror attacks in southern Indian city

LENGTH: 168 words


Text of report by Indian news agency PTI

Chennai, 22 October: An anonymous letter received by some news organisations
here Thursday [22 October] warned of terror strikes at key city locations,
including the airport, the central railway station and the US Consulate General
complex.

The letter, sent by post, said Chennai will face the "biggest terror
demonstration" and places such as the airport, Police Training College and the
Officers' Training Academy (OTA) of the Army will be attacked.

The sender also described the modus operandi for each of the targets in a
tabular column. It also gave the police a "clue" when it said the "plan" is
being made from a specific locality in the city but did not mention the date for
the attacks.

The letter has been handed over to police, who believe it could be a prank.
However, City Police Commissioner T Rajendian said "all standard operation
procedures (to handle such situations) will be carried out".

Source: PTI news agency, New Delhi, in English 1515gmt 22 Oct 09

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 2001 - 2500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:49:50

