



Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:21:04
Send To:







Terms: terror!


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             August 5, 2002, Monday

WOMAN IN SEX ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 157 words


A TAXI driver molested a woman passenger in a terrifying sex ordeal as he drove
her home from Birmingham to Tamworth.

The 22-year-old woman told police how the Asian driver repeatedly touched her
during the nightmare ride in the early hours of yesterday morning.

She eventually jumped from the private hire car after asking the driver to stop
in a quiet lane on the edge of Tamworth. But he cuddled her then sexually
assaulted her before driving off.

The woman got into the vehicle in Birmingham city centre to return home to
Tamworth after a night out.

'During the journey the driver repeatedly touched the woman's thigh and held her
hand,' a police spokesman said. 'She became frightened and alighted from the
vehicle in a quiet country lane.' The distressed woman was left to find her way
home from Bangley Lane near the village of Drayton Bassett. The woman said the
driver was aged 35-40 and about 5ft 7in tall.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                             August 5, 2002, Monday

TERROR ATTACKS REMEMBERED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 53 words


SERVICEMEN and women will be invited to a commemoration of the September 11
attacks on New York and Washington in Llandudno.

The ceremony at the town's war memorial will be held from 1.40pm on the
anniversary of the attacks.

It will feature representatives from the fire, police and ambulance services.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             August 5, 2002, Monday

SUICIDE BOMBER KILLS 10 IN TERROR ATTACK ON ISRAELI BUS

BYLINE: Eric Silver In Jerusalem

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 554 words


GEORGE BUSH called on all nations yesterday to stop the "terrorist killers"
after a day of Palestinian carnage in which a suicide bomber turned a crowded
bus into a fireball.

He was speaking in Kennebunkport, Maine, after a Hamas suicide bomber blew up a
bus near the Jewish holy city of Safed in northern Israel, killing nine
passengers and himself and wounding more than 50 in the early-morning rush hour.

"There were mangled bodies everywhere," said Nissim Hozeh, a fireman. The bus
blazed for 10 minutes before the fire was put out. The dead included three
soldiers, returning from weekend leave, and civilians. At least one was an Arab
Israeli citizen.

Barely four hours later, a gunman aged 19 killed a security guard and wounded
the driver and another worker in a telephone company van at Damascus Gate in
Jerusalem's Old City. Police stationed near by shot the assailant dead and an
Arab passer-by was killed in the exchange of fire.

Palestinian militants also wounded four Israelis, two seriously, in a drive-by
shooting near Tulkarem and two more were hurt when Palestinians blew up a
roadside bomb near Ramallah.

Speaking after the bus attack, President Bush interrupted a round of golf with
his father to say: "I am distressed to hear about the latest suicide bombing in
Israel. There are a few killers who want to stop the peace process that we have
started. We must not let them."

Mr Bush did not specify which countries should act when he called on nations of
the world "to do everything they can to stop these terrorist killers". But
Joseph Lieberman, a Democratic senator, said America and its allies must "cut
off the flow of support to Hamas and other Palestinian terrorist groups that's
coming from Iran, Iraq, Syria and, I fear, Saudi Arabia".

Hamas claimed responsibility for the bus bombing, which it said was further
revenge for Israel's assassination of Salah Shehada, its military leader, on 22
July.

The Palestinian Authority condemned the Safed attack, but blamed Israel's policy
of "mass detentions, repressive measures and home demolitions" for the cycle of
violence. Raanan Gissin, a spokesman for the Israeli government, denounced Hamas
and Yasser Arafat, the Palestinian leader, who celebrated his 73rd birthday
yesterday, for continuing to incite terrorist activity.

"The only present Arafat has given the Israeli people is death and bloodshed and
the only present he has given his own people is to lead them further down the
road to self-destruction," Mr Gissin said. He vowed that Israel would "continue
relentlessly to fight against terrorism" but would not say what form its
retaliation would take.

The Israeli crackdown on Hamas activists in Nablus, provoked by Wednesday's
killing of seven people at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, entered its third
day yesterday. Troops demolished nine houses of suspected militants and shot
dead an armed Palestinian frogman who tried to attack a Jewish settlement in
Gaza from the sea.

A spokesman for Ariel Sharon said Israel had suspended talks planned in the
coming days with Palestinian officials. But it was not clear whether the US
Secretary of State, Colin Powell, would meet for talks with Palestinian leaders
as planned in Washington.

Further report, page 10; Leading article, page 14

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 6, 2002, Tuesday

PIG HEADS LEFT AT MOSQUE AFTER ATTACK BY TERRORISTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 360 words


Pig heads were dumped at a mosque two days after the terrorist attacks on the
twin towers of the World Trade Centre in New York, a court heard yesterday.

A banner was also erected at the mosque in Exeter, Devon which bore the words:
'The blood of the American people is on the hands of every Muslim.'

And a notice pinned to a door at the mosque complex read: 'This is the start of
the end for all Osama bin Laden supporters.'

Christopher Williams, of Merryvale, Exeter, has pleaded not guilty at Exeter
Magistrates Court to two charges of criminal damage, with persons unknown, at
the Islam centre in the city's York Road on September 13 last year.

The chairman of the centre's trustees, Mohammed Ahmed, told the court yesterday:
'We view this as a gross racial attack on our community.'

Peter Ashman, prosecuting, said following the tragic events of September 11
'feelings were running high, it appears, even in Devon'.

He said three men were seen by a witness and on closed circuit television at
around 11.35pm on September 13 going to the mosque, erecting a banner, throwing
items around the car park and jogging away.

The police were called and found several pigs' heads in the car park, together
with packets of a red substance which had been thrown at the walls.

The banner read: 'Osama bin Laden, the blood of the American people is on the
hands of every Muslim. War on democracy is war on civilisation. Goodbye
Afghanistan, Palestine. Nuck em George.'

At midnight Mr Ahmed received two telephone calls, in one of which the caller
said: 'The blood of American children is on your hands.'

After a second similar call he again spoke to the police who told him of the
attack on the mosque.

When Williams was interviewed by the police he denied being one of the three
people who went to the mosque and denied being involved in making the banner.

Mr Ashman said that Williams' fingerprints had been found on the notice pinned
to the door at the mosque.

Mr Ashman said when Williams was asked by the police to spell the word 'nuke' he
spelled it 'nuck' the same as on the banner.

The case continues today.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                                 August 6, 2002

Victim counselled as police hunt attacker WOMAN IN RAPE TERROR By Zoe Corney
Crime Reporter

BYLINE: Dave Laister

SECTION: NEWS; 999; Sexcrime; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 408 words


A 20-YEAR-OLD Grimsby woman was chased and raped in a town alleyway in the early
hours of today.  The woman had been on a night out in the town with friends when
she was attacked after getting out of a taxi as she made her way to a relative's
house.

She was chased before being raped in an alleyway off Lord Street in the Top Town
area.

Police said the woman had been picked up in a taxi from the Riverhead area of
the town centre after spending the night in Chicago Rock Cafe.

After dropping off a relative, she got out of the taxi at the Market Hotel
roundabout.

She then walked down Boulevard Avenue and into Lord Street where the incident
happened at about 3am.

Leading the investigation, Det Insp Phil Spicksley, said: "She was chased by a
man on Lord Street and he attacked her in an alleyway somewhere near to the pram
shop.

"We are appealing for anyone who may have been in the area or may have seen or
heard anything untoward to come forward and talk to us." Police said the rapist
described as stocky and wearing a black padded jacket never spoke to her and
grabbed the woman from behind.

Det Insp Spicksley said: "The woman is shocked and is being dealt with by a
suitably trained police officer who is giving her help and counselling."
Officers are also appealing for a taxi driver who picked the woman and a
relative up from outside the Grimsby nightspot to come forward.

Det Insp Spicksley added: "We need to speak to the taxi driver who dropped the
girl off just before 3am in the Boulevard Avenue area." Jan Rilatt, development
officer for Grimsby Rape Crisis, said: "Anyone should be able to walk the
streets safely, but at the same time people should take reasonable precautions.

"This young lady seems to have done so if she got a taxi. It is better to spend
GBP 5 on a taxi than it is to get attacked.

"But even taking reasonable precautions does not stop the opportunists." A
spokeswoman for the Grimsby branch of Victim Support said: "It is a good idea to
carry a personal alarm, to tell someone where you are going where possible or
use your mobile to phone to say you are on your way home.

Anyone with information should call police on (01472) 359171.

zoe.corney@grimsbytelegraph.co.uk SCENE OF ATTACK: The vIctim left Chicago Rock
cafe (left) and was attacked after being dropped off by a taxi.

RIGHT: Det Insp Phil Spicklsey has appealed for witnesses.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           August 7, 2002, Wednesday

POUNDS 9.6M ATM FRAUD IN WAKE OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 173 words


New York prosecutors said as many as 4,000 people used ATMs to steal pounds 9.64
million from a municipal employees' credit union whose computer security system
was damaged in last year's September 11 attack.

Police said they had arrested 66 people and were seeking 35 others. But
thousands more are under investigation in what already is one of the largest
fraud cases to come out of the terrorist attack.

District Attorney Robert Morgenthau said the suspects found a way to repeatedly
withdraw up to pounds 321 a day from ATMs - even if their accounts at the
Municipal Credit Union could not cover it.

The problem arose when the World Trade Centre attack damaged a nearby building
housing the union's computer system.

Credit union officials soon realised they could not properly monitor the
computer network that handles automated transactions.

But they decided to allow withdrawals without the normal safeguards so they
would not upset people hit by the tragedy.

'People took advantage,' Mr Morgenthau said.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           August 7, 2002, Wednesday

SCOTTISH TEACHER RELIVES TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Michael Christie Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 217 words


A SCOTS teacher spoke of her horror yesterday after terrorists attacked her
school in Pakistan.

Liz McKee, 54, was teaching home economics at Murree Christian School when
gunmen burst in and killed six people.

Reception staff locked the inside door to stop the terrorists getting any
further.

Liz said: "It happened about 10 minutes after a break, when the children were
outside.

"Even though it is horrific that six people died, it could have been much
worse."

Scots David Wood and wife Maureen were also teaching at the time. Their son,
Douglas, 17, one of four Scots kids at the school, was also present.

Alison, Duncan and Andrew Sneddon, originally from Lanarkshire, were also in
their classes.

A chilling note, from a previously unknown militant group calling themselves Al-
Intiqami Al-Pakistani or Revenge of the Pakistanis, was left at the school,
which is 35 miles north- east of Islamabad.

The note said: "It's just the beginning. We will do more to avenge what is being
done by infidels with Moslems all over the world."

Yesterday, three men thought to be involved in the attack blew themselves up at
a checkpoint as police tried to arrest them near Dheerkot.

Eight people died yesterday when Islamic militants attacked Hindu pilgrims in
Kashmir.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           August 7, 2002, Wednesday

Terror attack comedy act 'is revolting'

BYLINE: Dalya Alberge Arts Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 456 words


A DRAG artist who has incorporated the September 11 attacks into his comedy show
at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival has caused outrage on both sides of the
Atlantic.

Tina C, played by Chris Green, a British performer, has been condemned by the
American press, which said that families of victims would be revolted by
performers "mining the tragedy for laughs".

In the act, Tina C appears as a country singer in a cabaret show who goes in for
plastic surgery on September 10 and emerges the next day to find everyone
crying. She goes on to use the terrorist attack to further her career in a
satire on the media's exploitation of it. She observes the heartache caused by
religion, and advises people to change their faith every day.

Sue Regenhard, founder of the Skyscraper Safety Campaign, also expressed anger
at such "revolting behaviour".

"I can't see what on earth could be comical about September 11. It shows total
disdain for the thousands of people affected by this."

James Gilchrist, Edinburgh council's Tory spokesman on leisure and culture,
said:

"Every time I hear something, I think that the Fringe has plumbed new depths and
then something like this happens. This is not bad taste, it's not even awful
taste, it is simply unbelievable." Tina C, a self-proclaimed "country diva"
whose act includes songs such as Stranger on the Stairwell and Kleenex to the
World, said: "How long do people need before they start making jokes about these
things? How long did it take before people were making jokes about Lockerbie or
Hitler. It's a human condition that we react in this way because it is a way
people deal with the horrors in the world."

Green said: "I could never imagine what the people who lost loved ones on
September 11 have gone through and my show is not about the people who died or
were injured. I am upset that people are taking this stance. It's about the way
people react and the huge media and celebrity circus that starts after these
tragedies."

Other controversial acts at the Fringe include the American comedian Doug
Stanhope, who mocks the Americans' adulation for rescue workers and claims they
are just people with an appetite for danger.

On his website he defends his act, saying firefighters have an "adrenaline
junkie mentality" and claims that most firefighters liked his show.

Omid Djalili, a British-born performer of Iranian descent who also uses
September 11 in his comedy, said that no subject is beyond the bounds of comedy,
although he admitted that some members of his audience have looked perturbed and
upset at some of his jokes.

"I'm aware people are not comfortable with it," he said.

First Night, page 17 Edinburgh Festival, T2 page 11


LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                 August 8, 2002

Royal & Sun adds £66m to US terror attacks toll

BYLINE: Paul Armstrong

SECTION: Pg. 35

LENGTH: 400 words


ROYAL & SunAlliance dealt another blow to the embattled insurance industry today
when it unveiled a £66 million jump in the amount it has set aside to cover
losses relating to the World Trade Centre.

RSA has been stung by a huge increase in the claims it now expects to receive
for business interruption as a result of the 11 September terrorist attacks on
the US, taking its total provisions for the disaster to £281 million.

A quarter of the additional £66 million stems from claims it has already
received while the rest has been set aside in expectation of a surge in fresh
demand for compensation.

RSA's admission is a bitter blow for the industry, with many observers believing
current provisions would have proved adequate.

The news came as the insurer revealed it had released £350 million from its life
insurance business in the past fortnight, lifting the total amount raised from
asset sales and restructuring to £725 million compared with the group's target
of £800 million.

About £250 million of the latest injection stems from the sale of its group risk
business to Canada Life last month for £60 million. This deal reduced the amount
of capital RSA needed to retain for solvency purposes.

A further £ 100 million comes from reinsuring part of the embedded value of its
life funds, which were closed to new business last December.

"This will lead to a fundamental reshaping of the UK life business," said chief
executive-Bob Mendelsohn. "We expect significant reductions in the expenses of
our life operations over the next 18 months with a one-off cost of around the
same amount as the annual saving."

However, the decision to close further parts of its life business will lead to
heavy job losses, details of which were expected to be released today.

The increased provisions for the WTC helped cause RSA's group operating result
to fall to £301 million in the first half of the year compared with £366 million
previously.

The pre-tax line was slashed to a £319 million loss after including a £371
million charge in relation to poor investment returns.

But there was some comforting news from RSA's general insurance arm. It revealed
that its combined operating ratio, which measures premium income against claims,
had hit the group's target of 103% in the six months, including a result of
102.1% in the second quarter.


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 August 9, 2002

Second attack on terror bus route;Young woman hit by bottle as rush hour service
is attacked by gang

BYLINE: By Alexander Robertson

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 412 words


A YOUNG woman was left covered in blood after teenage thugs attacked a bus
during rush hour in a Glasgow housing scheme.

Passengers, including children and a young mother with a pram, were showered
with glass when a gang smashed windows with bricks and bottles.

The attack is the second violent incident on the same bus service within the
space of a month.

In the first attack on the No 38 bus a 26-year-old man was punched and kicked in
what police described as an unprovoked assault.

During the latest incident, a 16-year-old girl was left with a cut to her head
after a bottle was thrown through a window.

The teenage girl did not need medical treatment for her injuries.

The First bus, which had earlier passed through Glasgow city centre, had just
turned from Avenue End Road into Mossvale Road, Ruchazie when the thugs pounced
around 6pm on Monday night.

One passenger, who did not want to be named, described the bus journey as a
"nightmare".

She said: "Eight drunken neds got on at the Royal Infirmary, at Ruchazie they
were shouting their gang name at a rival gang who were drinking in the street.

"Their rivals proceeded to throw bricks, smashing three windows of the bus.

"A young mother with a baby was terrified, her pram was covered in broken
glass."

Police today appealed for passengers and witnesses to come forward.

And a spokeswoman for First said: "We are sickened by this anti-social and
unacceptable behaviour, however would liked to stress that fortunately only a
very small minority of journeys are affected by incidents of this nature.

"We are currently focusing our efforts on tackling this and will shortly be
rolling out a number of initiatives in partnership with Strathclyde Police and
Glasgow City Council."

Last month the Evening Times revealed that a student on board a No 38 bus bound
for Garthamlock was brutally attacked by a man and woman as he travelled home.

Stephen McCafferty, 26, from Craigend told how he feared for his life as he was
punched, kicked and hit across the head with an empty wine bottle.

Police described the assault, also in Ruchazie, as "unprovoked and vicious".

During the attack, passengers were forced to flee onto a second bus.

Police today renewed an appeal for help in catching Stephen's attackers.

Detective Constable John Semple said: "A man tried to break up the fight. I
would appeal for this man and other passengers to get in touch."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: NIGHTMARE: Stephen McCafferty feared for his life when he was attacked
last month

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 August 9, 2002

Biker gunman targets family in terror attack;Three escape injury in drive -by
shooting outside Royal Infirmary

BYLINE: By John Kerr

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 511 words


A GUNMAN on a motorbike attacked a brother and sister and their baby niece in a
drive-by shooting in Glasgow city centre.

The pillion rider blasted the family car as it waited in a queue of traffic near
the busy Royal Infirmary.

Buckshot from a sawn-off shotgun peppered the car as the aunt and uncle sat with
the four- month-old girl, who they had been baby-sitting.

The man, 37, his 35-year-old sister, and the baby were showered with glass from
broken windows - but all three luckily escaped injury.

The shots also sprayed past the silver Rover car towards a nearby bus stop, just
missing passengers who were waiting there.

Detectives today refused to comment on any possible motive for the attack, but
it has all the hallmarks of a gangland hit.

Police have not revealed the names of the couple.

The shooting drama happened around 7.15pm last night in Castle Street, across
the road from the casualty department at Royal Infirmary.

Police suspect that the motorbike had been trailing the car through the city,
waiting for a chance to strike.

The car was approaching the Royal Infirmary when it pulled up at traffic lights
and the bike roared up on the outside.

The gunman on the pillion steadied and fired as the bike went past.

The car was riddled with shots and its windows were shattered. Shotgun pellets
also hit the road and pavement.

Reports suggest the motorbike was loaded into a white Volkswagen van outside the
Royal Infirmary a short time later.

The shooting happened so fast passers-by at first didn't realise what was going
on.

But when the alarm was raised medics from the Royal Infirmary rushed over to
help the family.

A hospital porter said today: "It sounded like a gun being fired but we didn't
know what had happened until we saw the panic across the road from us.

"Folk who saw it said the bike raced alongside the car and the passenger pointed
the gun and fired.

"The police were there within minutes and sealed off the whole area. There was
an unbelievable amount of police activity. The road was closed.

"Police were down on their hands and knees searching the road and marking off
areas with yellow crayon. The gunshot peppered quite a big area."

One police insider said the shooting was well planned and may have been carried
out by professionals.

The couple were being questioned by police today.

A spokesman said: "We cannot speculate about a motive.

"But we are appealing for witnesses or anyone with information."

Detective Chief Inspector George Lambie, leading the inquiry, said: "Thankfully,
nobody was injured, but it was still a terrifying ordeal for those involved.

"Castle Street was very busy with traffic at that time of the night and there
would have been a lot of people in the area.

"I urge anyone who saw the attack or who has any information that would help
inquiries to contact the incident room at London Road Police on 0141 532 4658 or
4714."

Information can also be passed on in confidence to Crimestoppers on 0800 555
111.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: STREET TERROR: the motorbike gunman fired at the car in Castle Street.
Crayon marks the spots where the shotgun pellets landed after the attack
Picture: Mark Hildrey

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           August 10, 2002, Saturday

CLEARED MAN SAYS HE WAS SCAPEGOAT FOR TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Sulayman Zain-ul-abidin Leaving The Old Bailey Yesterday After Being
Cleared Of Inciting Terrorism Pa By Robert Verkaik Legal Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 507 words


THE FIRST Briton to be charged with terrorism offences after the attacks of 11
September was cleared by a jury at the Old Bailey yesterday.

Sulayman Zain-ul-abidin, a chef from south-east London, was accused of setting
up a website to recruit Islamist terrorists but claimed he had been made a
"trophy" scapegoat.

After the verdict his solicitor, Muddassar Arani, said her client now had to try
to rebuild his life. She said his house had been repossessed since the start of
the trial. "He has nothing now - yet he is a totally innocent man," added Ms
Arani.

The court was told that Mr Zain-ul-abidin's website, called the Ultimate Jihad
Challenge, offered courses in America and was launched to "assist or prepare for
terrorism".

A Muslim convert, Mr Zain-ul-abidin, was arrested three weeks after the 11
September atrocities and two weeks after going to a London police station to
complain that he did not feel safe after a newspaper article exposed his
advertisement. The website offered live firearms training on a pounds 3,000,
two-week course in the United States. "Live firearm training in particular is
something you will have to give careful consideration to when considering what
message he was choosing to convey," Mr Ellison, for the prosecution, told the
court.

But during interviews with police and throughout his trial Mr Zain-ul- abidin
denied that the website had anything to do with terrorism. He said its purpose
was to train people working in the security industry and that the only person to
have taken a course in the past two years was a security guard from a
Sainsbury's store in south-east London.

The prosecution also said that police officers had found a laptop in Mr Zain-ul
-abidin's locker containing articles about Osama bin Laden and his terror
organisation, al-Qa'ida. He was subsequently charged under the Terrorism Act
2000.

However, Mr Zain-ul-abidin, whose service was advertised as "Britain's first
Islamic threat-assessment unit", told the jury that he was a trophy scapegoat
for the 11 September attacks. He described his prosecution as a joke, adding:
"11 September happened and they have got to show the public they are fighting
Islamic terrorism.

"It's a joke - the bottom line is that if 11 September never happened I wouldn't
be standing here and trying to justify trying to make a business. I'm their
trophy, I'm their prize. They have got to convict me."

He told the court he was running a security service and disregarded any
inquiries from recruits who told him they wanted to join a holy war.

His lawyer said later they were considering whether to sue for false arrest.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "Officers from the Anti-Terrorist Branch believe
the prosecution was properly brought before the court."

Andrew Dismore, Labour MP for Hendon, first brought the case to the public's
attention. "I think it is a very disappointing verdict," he told BBC Radio 4's
The World at One. The MP insisted he was right to alert the police to the case.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            August 12, 2002, Monday

192: A BABE FROM THE JUNGLE;
 SUGABABE MUTYA TELLS OF HER TERROR OVER GANG ATTACK

BYLINE: Rick Fulton Exclusive

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 601 words


SUGABABE Mutya Buena has revealed how she was once almost dragged away by a
group of boys on her tough council estate where a 13- year-old girl was raped.

The singer may look like a bubbly carefree beauty, but behind the pop babe
image, she has had to face up to her fears.

Mutya, 17, who performed in front of 30,000 drenched fans in Falkirk yesterday
for Radio 1's One Big Sunday gig, told how she had to flee a gang of boys in the
North London estate.

She said: "I've had to run for my life a couple of times, which was very scary.

"I've been followed and a group of boys tried to drag me off once, too.

"There were two girls and this big group of boys crowded round of us.

"A 13-year-old girl was raped in broad daylight too, close to my home. I felt
really threatened as a female. You can be ugly or pretty, but because you are a
girl, blokes think they can approach you."

She was only 16 when she performed the band's first No.1, Freak Like Me, on Top
Of The Pops and was a schoolgirl when the group were first signed with original
member Siobhan Donaghy who was replaced by Heidi Range when she quit last year.

The group, whose third member is Keisha Buchanan, were dropped by their first
label and were thinking of getting nine- to-five jobs when the offer to do a
reworking of a Gary Numan bootleg was offered to them.

But the problems in the music industry pale into insignificance compared to the
world Mutya was brought up in.

She shudders when she tells 192 that recently the body of a schoolboy was found
near her home.

Mutya, who still lives with her parents, said: "I was worried and my mum finds
it hard to even let me out the house.

"Now I make sure a male friend always sees me home or I call for one of my
brothers to meet me.

"I have a four older brothers and they tell me that some men think of women like
food. You just can't be too careful."

Mutya is constantly recognised around her North London home.

Her Irish mother Rose is a full-time housewife who looks after the youngest of
her eight children and her Filipino father June works for a travel agency.

Mutya said: "I couldn't have got this far without them looking after me.

"I've been brought up very well considering where I live. There are drugs and
violence all around."

As well as One Big Sunday and the release of their single Round Round today, the
Sugababes have a treat in store for Scots fans.

The group will launch their debut album Angels With Dirty Faces with a secret
concert for 250 fans at a Scottish club on August 27.

The show is part of the Up Close series of exclusive gigs organised by Scottish
Radio Holdings and The Royal Bank of Scotland.

Being in a successful band has meant Mutya has been inundated with requests for
dates.

Celebrity hunks, including members of Blue, who were also on the One Big Sunday
list of performers, have formed a queue.

Mutya said: "You do get more opportunities and interest, but I tend to tell
people to b****r off.

"Boy bands know that we just laugh at them. You don't need them really.

"I am single and I laugh and say that I am only looking, but we are really good
friends with Blue."

She added: "I chat to Ant on the phone sometimes and Simon is our friend. They
are really funny and very flirtatious, but they know when to stop.

"They've most probably been told to calm down because they are so flirty.

"The worst chat-up lines I had was from a nasty old man going to the bookies who
told me I was a beautiful ray of sunshine.

"I just stood there and laughed at him."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                August 12, 2002

US Airways plunges towards bankruptcy in terror attack crisis

BYLINE: Robert Lea

SECTION: Pg. 31

LENGTH: 265 words


US AIRWAYS lurched towards bankruptcy today, sending shock waves through the
aviation industry worldwide as it became the first major airline to succumb to
the crisis precipitated by the terrorist attacks on America 11 months ago.

It was today petitioning for Chapter 11 insolvency protection from its creditors
in an attempt to reschedule its finances, which see its $ 7.8 billion (£5.1
billion) liabilities outstrip its assets. Over the past three trading quarters
back to October 2001, the airline has racked up cumulative losses of more than $
2 billion.

There were immediate fears that others could follow the fall of US Airways,
America's sixth-largest airline. United Airlines' attempt to seal a $ 1.8
billion loan guarantee from the White House, which will enable it to raise a
fresh $ 2 billion from lenders, has stalled over the terms of the guarantee.

Sources at United claim rivals are trying to push into bankruptcy too.

US Airways' dive into insolvency came as it was trying to secure $ 900 million
of loan guarantees from the federal government, which would enable it to raise
new finance from the money market.

However, it has been dogged by its attempts to force through wage cuts on its
pilots and other employees in its 35,000 workforce.

It was hard hit after 11 September because of the protracted security-related
closure of its main hub Washington DC's National Airport.

Like the rest of the US airline industry it has since been hobbled by the
refusal of Americans under the weight of economic downturn to take to the skies
again.


LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 12, 2002

Comment & Analysis: Open house: The other public service: US and UK journalists
have rather different views of their roles in the aftermath of a terrorist
attack

BYLINE: Elaine Showalter

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 805 words


Imagine that terrorists release sarin in London, or send anthrax to Liverpool.
Would the press help to educate and reassure an anxious public with accurate
information? Or would British newspapers alarm and unnerve people with
conspiracy theories, apocalyptic scenarios and scare headlines? Does the press
serve the public interest, or is the fourth estate an independent nation with
its own priorities? And if crisis managers in government and public health want
to make the press an ally in coping with the aftereffects of terrorism, what do
they need to do?

These questions were urgently discussed this spring in Brussels, at a Nato
research workshop I attended on the social and psychological consequences of
chemical, biological and radiological terrorism. All participants agreed that
bioterrorism was a form of psychological warfare designed to create fear and
destroy trust in government. Its worst effects would be long term, in the form
of post traumatic stress disorder, depression and other psychiatric casualties,
as well as erosion of social capital.

But there were some troubling differences between American and British attitudes
towards information sharing and enlisting the cooperation of the media. American
experts at the workshop were the most vigorous advocates of full disclosure to
the public in cases of disaster, and full briefing of the press.

Professor Thomas Glass, an epidemiologist from Johns Hopkins' Bloomberg School
of Public Health, argued that panic is "rare and preventable" if government
planners make risk communication an essential part of homeland security
programmes, and understand that releasing timely, honest, clear and
comprehensible information is as important as providing medicine.

Dr Craig Hyams, of the Washington DC Department of Veterans' Affairs, stressed
the need to shift emphasis after a disaster from fear and victimisation to a
city's courage in overcoming adversity - as Rudy Giuliani had done in New York.
He also called upon the press to "educate itself about a new health threat in
order to accurately report the news".

Such demands fit with American traditions of a politically objective and
socially responsible press, and with the way the New York Times had combined
accuracy, compassion and civic pride in its coverage of September 11.

The British viewpoint was much more adversarial about the relationship between
crisis managers and the media, and more sceptical of media citizenship in an
emergency. In a panel discussion, Mark Laity, Nato's deputy director of
communications and an ex-BBC defence correspondent, argued that the media could
not be counted on to help reassure the public or increase confidence, and might
even increase public disquiet.

BBC World Service correspondent Nik Gowing described the range of contemporary
media sources, with varying ethical and professional standards. He warned that
the narrative agenda of a bioterrorist incident would be determined within the
first hour or 20 minutes after an attack. In the absence of government
announcements, other stories would rush in to fill the gap.

In the context of modern British journalistic traditions of a politically
partisan press, deeply suspicious of authority, any government efforts to win
media cooperation look like cooption and censorship. At the same time,
traditions of secrecy, confidentiality and non-disclosure continue to undermine
confidence in the openness and accountability of official planners.

But there does not have to be a conflict between journalistic professionalism,
freedom of the press and ethical concerns for the public morale. Before the
Blitz, British military experts predicted that the civilian population would
panic and collapse under bombing. Instead, the BBC's commitment to comprehensive
news reporting, humour and optimism helped sustain resistance and rebuild
confidence.

In other circumstances, journalistic ethics and a sense of responsibility have
to be considered alongside printing a good story. Ian Mayes reported on July 29
on a meeting of editors and journalists about the problems of reporting
suicides. Mayes intends to propose a code for the coverage of suicide in the
Guardian. We all hope that bioterrorist attacks can be prevented, but meanwhile,
planning how the government and the press will communicate risk should be a
priority on both sides.

Elaine Showalter is the author of Hystories: Hysterical Epidemics and Modern
Media (Picador)

Ian Mayes' Open door column returns next week. Readers may contact the office of
the readers' editor by telephoning 0845 451 9589 between 11am and 5pm Monday to
Friday (all calls are charged at local rate). Mail to Readers' editor, The
Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER. Fax 020-7239 9997.

Email: reader@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 13, 2002, Tuesday

TERROR ATTACK SERVICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 71 words


SENIOR members of the Royal Family and Government ministers are to attend a
British service of remembrance to mark the first anniversary of the September 11
terror attacks in the USA. A memorial to victims of the suicide attacks in New
York, Washington and Pennsylvania is also to be erected outside the US Embassy
in Grosvenor Square, London. Full details are to be announced by Culture
Secretary Tessa Jowell today.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 13, 2002

SERVICE MARKS TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 193 words


SENIOR members of the Royal family and politicians will attend a service at St
Paul's Cathedral in London next month to mark the first anniversary of the
September 11 terrorist attacks on America, it will be announced today.

Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell - whom Tony Blair put in charge of helping the
families of the British dead immediately after the attack last year - will also
unveil details of a memorial garden to be created opposite the American Embassy
in Grosvenor Square, London, to remember the UK victims.

The decision to build a garden where people can pay their respects was taken
after lengthy consultation with the bereaved relatives.

It is expected to be open in time for the second anniversary of the atrocity at
the World Trade Centre in New York. The closest current estimate of how many
Britons died in the attacks is 67, of which 16 are confirmed and 51 still
classed as "missing".

Altogether, 83 of those believed killed are said by the Foreign Office to have
"close British ties".

The bereaved families are also to be invited to attend next month's memorial
service at St Paul's, Downing Street announced.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            August 13, 2002, Tuesday

PRISON ATTACK TERROR;
 VIOLENCE AGAINST WARDERS SOARS

BYLINE: Matt Slater

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 419 words


ASSAULTS on staff at Liverpool Prison have rocketed since human rights laws were
introduced.

Yesterday, two prison officers at the Walton jail reported violent attacks to
police.

One was allegedly shot with a ball-bearing gun.

That was the eighth attack on an officer in the past week, according to the
Liverpool Prison Officers' Association, which says warders are living in fear of
being attacked by inmates.

A European Court removed the traditional right of governors to extend sentences
for serious bad behaviour three weeks ago.

Both attacks reported yesterday are being investigated by Merseyside police.

Liverpool POA committee member Paul Leigh said: "The prisoners have basically
been saying they can attack us and not be punished.

"We are being assaulted virtually every day and there is now a lot more violence
between inmates.

"The prison just cannot go on like this because it is no longer a safe place to
work.

"We need more staff if we want to stop the situation getting completely out of
hand.

"The prison cannot give extra days on sentences which means we have to go to the
police if we want anything done." The European ruling means that if officers
want to extend a prisoner's sentence, the only route open to them is to make a
criminal complaint which will go through the courts.

Warders at Fazakerley's Altcourse Prison claim inmates are no longer afraid of
causing trouble, although they are not specifically reporting an increase in
assaults.

A prison source said: "The atmosphere in the prison since the Human Rights
ruling has changed and inmates no longer feel they have to follow the rules.

"It is just a matter of time before the situation escalates."

A spokesman for Group Four, which runs Altcourse Prison, said: "It is important
that prison officers in both the public and private sectors have the necessary
support to be able to do their difficult and sometimes dangerous jobs."

The ECHO recently reported how convicted heroin dealer Spencer Edwards is to
receive pounds 8,000 in compensation following the European Court ruling.

It decided the extra 86 days he served in prison for beating up inmates and
wardens went against the Human Rights Act.

Edwards, from Bootle, should have been behind bars until December but was
released early, three weeks ago.

A Home Office spokesman said: "We are looking at introducing a system which
allows extra days to be given to prisoners without contravening the European
court."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           August 15, 2002, Thursday

SERVICE TO MARK TERRORIST ATTACK ANNIVERSARY;
 CITY WORKERS GIVEN THE CHANCE TO REMEMBER THOSE WHO DIED

BYLINE: Alan Harris HORROR: The aftermath of the attack on New York's Twin
Towers

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 306 words


COVENTRY Cathedral is holding a September 11 memorial service to mark the first
anniversary of the terrorist attacks on America.

The short lunch-time service will be led by the Dean of Coventry, the Very Rev
John Irvine, and will allow anyone to pay their respects.

It will start at 12.40pm on Wednesday, September 11. Prayers will be read and
people can sign a book of condolence.

Cathedral spokesman Veronica Meredith says the service will be low-key and will
allow city centre workers to pay their respects during their lunch break.

She said: "We're really not sure what people want but it's open to anybody and
everybody.

"There will be a book of condolence open for the day and the opportunity to
light candles.

"Rather than make it a big celebrity event, this service is for the people, the
men and women on the street."

The death-toll at the World Trade Center on September 11 is more than 2,800.

Three days after the attacks, around 1,200 people packed into Coventry Cathedral
to remember the victims and their families as part of a Europe- wide tribute

A three-minute silence was followed by the reading of special prayers and
visitors stayed afterwards to pray privately, with many leaving floral tributes.

Mrs Meredith expects the anniversary service to be also well attended.

She said: "When we held our three-minute silence the place was packed and it was
standing room only. I would imagine there could be a fair number of people
because it's still fresh in people's minds and people do want to take stock and
remember what happened."

HOLLYWOOD golden couple Tim Robbins and Susan Sarandon appeared in a play about
the September 11 attacks.

They played to a packed audience at the 650-seat Royal Lyceum Theatre in
Edinburgh with their performance of The Guys last night.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            August 16, 2002, Friday

CITY WATCHDOG REHEARSES TERROR ATTACK RESPONSE

BYLINE: Tim Moynihan

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 370 words


STAFF at the watchdog body of the finance industry are practising emergency
procedures to minimise disruption in the event of a September 11style attack on
the City, it emerged today.

The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has set up a "nerve centre" a short
distance from its Canary Wharf headquarters so it could cope if an incident
closed its normal base.

The FSA hopes its back-up site - at a secret location - would help it maintain
contact with 35 major institutions which are crucial to keeping international
and domestic markets open.

The centre, with its own IT system and satellite links, would be staffed by 25
people initially, with space for 300 more if required.

As staff simulated disaster scenarios in the presence of the press yesterday,
one of the FSA's managing directors, Michael Foot, said: "We could be up and
running here in an hour if we need to be."

He declined to discuss the precise nature of scenarios which were being prepared
for but said: "The people here can talk to their contacts at the major
institutions so we can advise them what is happening with trading at the Stock
Exchange and so on. We will have a lawyer here which is essential where money
transactions are concerned.

"It's crucial to keep the infrastructure going to minimise any disruption.
Payment and settlement systems are very interconnected. It could damage London's
reputation as a finance centre if we are not able to keep it all up and running
through an emergency."

The major banks have had back-up sites for some time to enable them to deal with
problems such as a fire or flood.

The FSA's development of its nerve centre builds on its longer standing
preparations and has been given extra impetus by last year's terror attacks on
New York and Washington.

Mr Foot said: "It is essential that all firms in the financial services sector
ensure that they are properly prepared. None of us can afford to be complacent
about the challenges that inevitably arise in an environment where the potential
threat is so great."

The disaster recovery readiness of the 35 key firms was "pretty good", he said.

But 30-40pc of the smaller firms still had a long way to go, he added.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: READY: Members of the Financial Services Authority rehearse;; Picture:
CHRIS YOUNG

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            August 16, 2002, Friday

INTERNET COMPANY MAKES ITS FIRST PROFIT;
 WORLD TRAVEL HOLDINGS: COMPANY STILL FEELING IMPACT OF SEPTEMBER 11 TERRORIST
ATTACKS

BYLINE: James Pritchard

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 398 words


INTERNET travel company World Travel Holdings has announced its first ever
quarterly profit but admitted that it is still feeling the impact of the
September 11 terrorist attacks.

Before those events in the US, the Cardiff-based business had believed it was on
course to move into profitability after building up a webbased travel business,
but it has subsequently found itself battling to survive.

Yesterday however, the company's chairman, John Biles, said he believed there
was some light at the end of the tunnel for World Travel as he announced the
company's interim trading results for the second quarter and the half year
ending June 30, 2002.

And, although he conceded that the second quarter was always the strongest for a
travel company, and that cash flow was still a problem, he said there was now
cause for hope.

The profit for the quarter stood at a modest pounds 57,000 compared with a loss
for the same quarter last year of pounds 1.7m, and the first half of the year
showed a loss of just pounds 93,000 compared with a loss of pounds 3.4m in 2001.

"I am delighted to be able to report the first quarterly profit achieved by the
group, albeit in what will continue to be the best quarter of each year," said
Mr Biles.

"Furthers considerable progress has been made in the reduction of the group's
costs and the simplification of its administrative and technical structure
whilst maintaining revenue and growing margin. Turnover, represented by
commissions and booking fees, has increased slightly in the quarter when
compared to the same period in 2001 on gross sales which have slightly reduced.

"This reflects progress made in improving margins, which increased to 9.29pc in
the quarter from 8.8pc in Q2 2001, and, given the elimination of all marketing
spend is, I believe, a very creditable performance."

Speaking about the prospects for the year as a whole, he said he expected a
"modest loss", and added, "The board is hopeful, based on current projections,
that 2003 will be profitable as a whole, although the group is always expected
to be lossmaking in the last quarter of each year."

Mr Biles said World Travel Holdings had been helped by a pounds 300,000 loan
from Culver Holdings, a major shareholder, but added that the attitude of banks
and credit card processors towards the travel industry continued to be
difficult.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           August 17, 2002, Saturday

MONEY: FINANCE WATCHDOG SETS UP EMERGENCY NERVE CENTRE;
 STOCK EXCHANGE: CONTACT WITH KEY INSTITUTIONS COULD BE MAINTAINED BY CENTRE
DURING EMERGENCY OR TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 314 words


STAFF in the watchdog body of the finance industry are practising emergency
procedures to minimise disruption in the event of a September 11-style attack on
the City.

The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has set up a "nerve centre" a short
distance from its Canary Wharf headquarters so that it could cope if an incident
closed its normal base.

The FSA hopes its secret back-up site would help it maintain contact with 35
major institutions that are crucial in keeping international and domestic
markets open.

The centre, with its own IT system and satellite links, would be staffed by 25
people initially, with space for 300 more if required.

As staff simulated disaster scenarios on Thursday, one of the FSA's managing
directors, Michael Foot, said, "We could be up and running here in an hour if we
needed to be."

He declined to discuss scenarios but said, "People here can talk to their con
-tacts at the major institutions so we can advise on what is happening with
trading at the Stock Exchange and so on. We will have a lawyer here, essential
when money transactions are concerned.

"It's crucial to keep the infrastructure going to minimise any disruption.
Payment and settlement systems are very interconnected. It could damage London's
reputation as a finance centre if unable to keep it all up and running through
an emergency."

The major banks have had back-up sites for some time to enable them to deal with
problems like fire or flood. The FSA's development builds on long-standing
preparations and has gained added impetus from last year's terror attacks on US
targets.

Mr Foot said, "It is essential that all firms in the financial services sector
ensure that they are properly prepared. None of us can afford to be complacent
about the challenges that inevitably arise in an environment where the potential
threat is so great."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                August 18, 2002

Review: 9/11: One Year on: Black America: Time for a new Black Power movement:
African Americans were appalled but not surprised by the terrorist attack, says
author Walter Mosley. They understand the anger of America's enemies, which is
why they should be the ones to lead a new movement for peace

BYLINE: By Sean O'Hagan

SECTION: Observer Review Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2051 words


WALTER MOSLEY , crime writer, essayist, activist and, famously, Bill Clinton's
favourite novelist, is holding court in his bright and spacious apartment on
West 14th Street in New York. 'Most black people in America were not surprised
by 11 September,' he tells me, his defiant tone suggesting that he knows this is
not a popular opinion.

'I haven't met one black person who was surprised. Like everyone else, they were
shocked by the magnitude of it, and appalled by the deaths, but they weren't
surprised by the hate and anger that produced it. Black Americans are very aware
of the attitude of America towards people who are different, people whose
beliefs are different, people of a different colour. We live with that attitude
every single day. We know how hated America is.'

Walter Mosley is a bear of a man, with soft features, olive skin and a face
that, even in repose, has a quizzical look. When he grows animated, his words
echo across the room, which is the size of a small football pitch and empty save
for the table we are sitting at. I never get around to asking him if he has just
moved in or if he simply likes the Zen calm of uncluttered space. You get the
feeling that he's not one for small talk. At times, he seems impatient, chippy,
but it may just be that his words have trouble keeping up with his tumbling
thoughts. He speaks with the zeal of someone who has undergone a political
epiphany. Which, in a way, he has.

Last year, on 11 September, he, like many New Yorkers, saw a passenger plane
slice into a skyscraper. Unlike many Americans, whose immediate response was
incredulity, he says he knew instinctively that it was a deliberate act. 'It
crossed my mind for a second that the pilot had lost his way. Then it was, "I
get it". I mean, those buildings define America. I thought, this is an act born
out of rage.' He pauses for a second, perhaps wary, like all American left-wing
thinkers, that any deviation from Bush's all-out 'war on terrorism' line will be
viewed as unpatriotic. 'It was a terrible thing, a truly terrible thing, and I
don't think you'll find many black Americans who would agree with the act, but
they were not surprised by it in the way that white America was. That is a
crucial, and determining, difference. It tells you a lot about America, and how
it sees itself.'

It is that 'crucial and determining difference' which underpins Walter Mosley's
newly completed book, What Next? , to be published in America early next year.
It is a collection of essays whose central theme is that America needs a new
peace movement and that the black community should be at the vanguard of that
movement.

'Because of our history and our experience right here in America, as well as in
Africa, we have an understanding of the rage and anger of America's so-called
enemies,' he elaborates. 'Black people know that most Arabs and Muslims are good
people, that their beliefs are just as valid as Christian beliefs, that they
have been at the receiving end of American so-called foreign policy for years.
As a people of colour, we know how America treats other people of colour - with
suspicion or disdain. What I am saying is that because of our unique position,
we should be at the forefront of a new peace movement that starts the process
whereby Americans start to see the world, and themselves, differently.'

BORN WALTER Ellis Mosley in east Los Angeles in 1952, he is an only child. He
graduated from Hamilton High School in 1970, then drifted into a bohemian life
in Santa Cruz, before earning a degree in political science at university in
Vermont. Mosley came to writing late, aged 39, after 10 years as a computer
programmer, and to fame even later. After marrying Joy Kelman, a dancer and
choreographer in 1987, he started writing fiction instead of computer
programmes, influenced by Alice Walker's The Color Purple

Now turned 50, he has long led a parallel life as a polemicist: he came of age
in the Sixties, witnessing first-hand the 1965 Los Angeles race riots in Watts.
As the child of a black father from Louisiana and a Polish Jewish mother, Mosley
has always been aware of the problems of belonging that attend the experience of
black Americans. Since 11 September, he has been stopped and questioned every
time he passes through an airport.

'I guess I look vaguely Arabic,' he says, 'but it gives you an even more
heightened awareness of the suspicion that Muslims, even American Muslims, feel
under at the moment. Many of these people consider themselves patriotic
Americans and suddenly it's, "Whoah! America doesn't want us".'

In his fiction, too, he has been dealing with issues of belonging and identity,
racism and injustice, since his first book, Devil in a Blue Dress , was
published in 1990. That book introduced the world to part-time private eye
Ezekiel Porterhouse Rawlins, aka 'Easy', a black man who has made some kind of
peace with white America, and his sidekick, the amoral, often literally
murderous Mouse, who most definitely hasn't. Hate and rage simmer beneath the
surface of all seven Easy Rawlins novels: it underpins Mouse's more brutal
excesses, as well as the racism and bigotry that Mosley's characters face daily,
most often from an LAPD that views every black person as a suspect. If the Easy
Rawlins books have a consistent subtext, it is how black Americans have
negotiated, and continue to negotiate, a white society that, in the main, is
inured to its own prejudice.

Since his early novels were publicly endorsed by Bill Clinton during the 1992
presidential campaign, Mosley has occupied a unique position in American let
ters, being both immensely popular and consistently provocative. His latest
novel, Bad Boy Brawly Brown , which he has described as 'my homage to Malcolm
X', is set in 1964, but like the other Easy Rawlins narratives, has a hard
contemporary edge. Rawlins operates on the streets, filtering the ghetto life
around him through a world view that is cynical to the point of world-weary.

'I got a review of the new book in the New York Times recently,' he tells me,
smiling resignedly, 'and the woman goes, "Why does Easy Rawlins have to be
stopped and threatened by two white cops? It's too easy". The next week, a black
guy gets hauled in and beaten to a pulp on camera. Y'know, come on. Wake up.

'Americans only tend to see blacks who are kind of like them,' he continues.
'There are two Americas, and one is blind to the other. The way most black
people live, the daily racism and the suffering, is transparent to white
America. They just don't see it, or they choose not to. More importantly, they
don't understand how most black people feel, how we live with rage every day, a
rage against America.'

MOSLEY ONCE told an interviewer, 'I like the free-floating creative chaos you
get from being black', and his ideas come at you thick and fast, often linked by
the thinnest threads. Sometimes he sounds impatient with the necessary formality
of the interview contract.

He insists that he is not a spokesperson for the black community but his essays
and interviews suggest otherwise. His novels, on the other hand, veer between an
adherence to the conventions of the traditional crime thriller - Raymond
Chandler relocated to Fifties black Los Angeles - and an often brutal
contemporary realism. Mosley insists he writes from life - 'having a rage inside
you is part of being a black American, no question'.

How, I ask him, perhaps glibly, does all this square with the notion of a
black-led peace movement?

He looks at me and shakes his head. 'Maybe you should think about that question.
It's important to rage at the injustice and the lies. If someone keeps telling
you it's equal, and everyday you see that it isn't, and every day nothing
changes, what have you got except your rage? That is not to say that violence is
the solution. Violent responses are the absolute last resort. And, as I think my
books show, violence is going to tear you down as well.'

He pauses for a moment, shifting in his chair as the thoughts run into each
other. 'I mean, take 11 September: that was not an act endorsed by God. No
matter what these misguided people might believe, that was an act of fanatical
craziness. What I believe is that the only way to make sure that sort of
atrocity does not happen again is to make sure we don't do it to anyone else.'

TO THIS END , Mosley seems to have come to a conclusion roughly similar to Naomi
' No Logo ' Klein's, citing the all-powerful sway of corporate America as 'the
antithesis of democracy as it is defined in the constitution'. He sees
globalisation as colonisation on a grander scale. 'American foreign policy is
defined by our international business concerns, and is aimed at the erosion of
the sovereignty of the nations we exploit. Put simply, we do not want
democracies or unions in Haiti, we want to pay poor Haitians 50 cents an hour to
build cheap cars. That's how unfettered capitalism works, that's how America
works.'

In the American media coverage of 11 September, there has been relatively little
media coverage of one particular demographic: the scores of menial workers -
cooks, cleaners, catering staff, many of whom were illegal immigrants on
breadline wages - who perished in the attacks on the Twin Towers. 'Capitalism,'
as Walter Mosley notes, 'looks after its own.'

In his last non-fiction book, Working on the Chain Gang: Shaking Off the Dead
Hand of History , Mosley writes, 'Our actions, and the actions taken in our
name, are not truly ours to govern.' This, one feels, is what motivates his
activism, the sense that we have been robbed even of the right to protest. His
answer to all this is steeped in the grass-roots activism of his Sixties youth:
self-empowerment through education.

'We all need to be a part of an effort to understand the world we live in. We
need to organise reading groups where people can disseminate the news, not just
rely on big media corporations like Time-Warner.' I nod. I agree.
Wholeheartedly. The only problem, I say, is that in America, I do not see the
will for peace, nor for self-empowerment through self-education. Instead, I see
an angry nation rallying behind a gung-ho President as he prepares to invade
Iraq. Mosley is undeterred.

'I know all this is anathema to many Americans, and I can understand their
trauma and confusion right now. But what is the alternative? We are on a
precipice here. When people say, "Surely you don't want this to happen to
America again?", my answer is, "I don't want it to happen to anyone again". If
11 September has taught us anything, it is that only by working for peace, can
we ensure our own peace and safety. And, hey, hasn't Vietnam shown us that you
cannot bomb for peace, or invade for peace, or attempt to destroy whole cultures
for peace?'

Mosley keeps returning to the notion that this reappraisal of what it means to
be American must come from, and be steered by, the black community. 'We have
traditionally been America's cultural leaders,' he says. 'from Louis Armstrong
to Muhammad Ali and Martin Luther King.' It is as if, in the midst of 11
September, he caught a glimpse of a way to resolve the traumas - of race,
allegiance, identity, inequality - that have beset America since it declared
itself, vauntingly, impossibly, 'the land of the free'. His epiphany has not
been clouded by incredulity and recrimination, but has led him down a path both
well-worn and, in recent years, untrodden: a Martin Luther King-style mass
movement for peace. It is an idea both radical and simple, which, as Mosley
understands, is exactly the sort of idea America was founded on, and that
Americans instinctively rally round.

'When you write about 11 September, you should write about the next 10 years,'
he tells me, 'not just about the moment itself.' He is quiet for a moment, then
adds: 'You cannot ignore rage. It just does not go away. It only goes away when
the causes of that rage are addressed. You do not have to look outside America
to see how that is the case.'

Bad Boy Brawly Brown by Walter Mosley is published by Serpent's Tail on 6
September, at pounds 10. To order a copy for pounds 8, plus p&p, call the
Observer Books Service on 0870 066 7989


LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                August 19, 2002

man's terror at revenge attack; 'I've barricaded myself inside because I'm
terrified of burglars'

BYLINE: Terry Crockford

SECTION: CRIME; BURGLARY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 448 words


A SWANSEA man has barricaded himself into his home after allegedly being
terrorised by burglars he reported to police.  Since a burglary a week ago he
says he has had a brick hurled through the glass panel of his front door and his
house wall has been daubed with insults.

He told the Post living room display cabinet and ornaments have been smashed,
one of his three kittens has been hit with a rock and another splashed with
paint and his dog has gone down with a mystery illness.

"I'm terrified by what's happening and I've barricaded myself in for protection
against further attacks,'' said a desperately anxious Nigel Dickson.

"They have been outside shouting abuse and threats and say they are going to
petrol bomb me.'' His troubles began after he told police about four young
people he had seen carrying property stolen from a house near his own home in
Ceri Road, Townhill.

Sarah Minter, a 29-year-old aromatherapist, had arrived home from holiday to
find her house had been ransacked and the thieves had defecated on the floor.

She was so traumatised she packed what was left of her belongings and moved out.

Mr Dickson, aged 49, said: "I was out looking for one of my kittens at 3.30am
that morning when I saw four people carrying stuff which I later realised had
come from Sarah's house.

"I told police what I'd seen and about where the stuff had been taken.

"I went to the people involved and asked them to return her property. I said if
they did that I wouldn't confirm their identity to police.'' He claimed: "Since
then they have been terrorising me, shouting and hurling insults at me. It's so
bad I've had to tell friends to stay away.

"I've got interior door and furniture up against the windows. I can't leave the
house and I'm terrified by my situation.'' Two of those he identified to police
had since left the area and much of the stolen property had been removed by
others from the house they occupied, he said.

Mr Dickson claimed he had since discovered in the garden of that house a number
of aromatherapy bottles along with keys stolen from Miss Minter's house.

But he said police were not doing enough with the information he had given them.

And he added: "They're not taking me seriously when I say I'm being terrorised
in my own home.'' A police spokesman said: "We have had a report of a burglary
and Mr Dickson has passed on information which is being investigated.

"He has also made an allegation of damage in which a panel was smashed in his
front door. It is possible these two incidents are linked.'' Caption: AFRAID
Nigel Dickson, of Ceri Road, Townhill, who has become a prisoner in his own
home.D020818/6632/RM

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            August 20, 2002, Tuesday

Abu Nidal Ruthless Palestinian terrorist who launched attacks on three
continents and was constantly squabbling with other Arab groups

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1548 words

SABRI AL-BANNA, who was reported yesterday to have been found shot dead in
Baghdad aged 65, became notorious as Abu Nidal, the world's most ruthless
Palestinian terrorist, during a violent career which spanned almost three
decades of the Arab-Israeli struggle.

Al-Banna, who adopted the nom de guerre Abu Nidal ("Father of the Struggle") in
the late 1960s, was linked to more than 90 brutal terrorist attacks on three
continents, with kidnappings, murders, bombings and hijackings.

His most ruthless attacks included the slaughter, in 1985, of 19 people in twin
attacks by teams armed with assault rifles and grenades on the El Al check-in
desks at Rome and Vienna airports, and the bombing, in 1986, of an Istanbul
synagogue in which 22 people were killed.

His British victims included a British Council official, Ken Whitty, who was
shot dead in Athens in 1984, and the British Deputy High Commissioner in India,
Percy Norris, who was gunned down in Bombay the same year.

Abu Nidal's main targets, though, were moderate Arab regimes and mainstream
Palestinian leaders. He pursued a bloody feud with Yasser Arafat's Fatah,
masterminding the assassinations of Fatah leaders such as Salah Khalaf (Abu
Iyad) and several Palestine Liberation Organisation doves.

Though he portrayed himself as a fervent Palestinian nationalist, Abu Nidal's
acts were so harmful to the Palestinian cause that some of the more fanciful
Middle East analysts went so far as to suggest he might be a tool of hawks in
Israeli Intelligence. In 1982 an Abu Nidal gunman shot and seriously wounded
Israel's ambassador to London, Shlomo Argov - with disastrous results for the
Arabs: four days later Israel invaded Lebanon.

Sabri Khalil al-Banna was born in May 1937 in Jaffa in Palestine during the
British mandate. His family were prosperous, middle-class plantation owners and
he attended French and Islamic schools before his family was forced to leave
Jaffa during the 1948 Arab-Israeli War. After a period in the al Burj refugee
camp in the Gaza Strip, his family moved to the West Bank city of Nablus.
Al-Banna went to Egypt to study engineering and then found employment as an
electrician's assistant, when he became involved with the revolutionary Ba'ath
party of Jordan in 1955. Following the failed coup against King Hussein in 1957,
the party was suppressed, and al-Banna found work in Saudi Arabia with the
Arabian-American Oil Company; he then founded an electrical business and joined
a Fatah cell. He was expelled from the country following a demonstration after
the Six Day War in 1967.

He then moved to Nablus, and worked with Fatah's underground cells after the
Israeli occupation. When these were broken up, he moved to Amman, where he was
taken under the wing of the Fatah leader Salah Khalaf and gravitated towards its
security and intelligence organs. His trading company formed a useful conduit
for Fatah activities. In 1969, by now calling himself Abu Nidal, he was sent to
Khartoum to open a Fatah office, but he fell foul of the authorities and was
posted to Baghdad in August 1970 as the PLO representative.

This position enabled Abu Nidal to forge ties with Iraqi intelligence and lay
the groundwork for his own independent movement. It was also during this period
that the break came with Yasser Arafat. The original causes of the split were as
much for personal as for political reasons, but the divide evolved into bitter
rivalry as Abu Nidal came to scorn what he saw as Arafat's moves towards
moderation.

Abu Nidal probably gained some experience of terrorist operations through his
connection with Abu Da'ud, a fellow member of the delegation to Baghdad and
subsequently a senior figure in Black September, the Fatah terrorist arm which
carried out the attack on the Israeli Olympic team at the 1972 Munich Olympics.
Abu Nidal's enthusiasm for armed operations was reinforced by four months spent
on a course in guerrilla tactics in North Korea and China.

In Baghdad, he established a pattern of ties with Arab states. Hardline regimes
found it useful to have a ruthless terrorist proxy which they could use against
their opponents and were willing to give Abu Nidal's organisation the facilities
it needed to operate throughout the Middle East and in Europe.

The final break with Fatah came in 1974 when its officials accused Abu Nidal of
plotting to assassinate their leaders and sentenced him to death in absentia. In
response, he formed the Fatah Revolutionary Council (FRC) as the "true"
standard-bearer of Palestine.

From 1973 to 1980, Abu Nidal built up his organisation with Iraqi aid and
operated against Iraq's enemies using the name "Black June". Iraq's relations
with Syria were at a low ebb and Abu Nidal's men launched several attacks in
Damascus, including two attempts to assassinate the Syrian Foreign Minister.

By 1980, Iraq was at war with Iran and seeking to improve relations with the
West and moderate Arab states. Finding he was no longer welcome in Baghdad, Abu
Nidal was able, his earlier attacks on Syrian targets notwithstanding, to make a
relatively smooth transition to Damascus. The Syrians believed that he could be
of use to them as their relations with the PLO deteriorated.

During his sojourn in Syria, which lasted until 1986, Abu Nidal was mainly
engaged in attacks on PLO and Jordanian targets at Syria's behest. Syria was at
the time engaged in sponsoring a rebellion within the PLO against Yasser Arafat
and expelling Palestinian fighters from Lebanon; at the same time it was
concerned to put a stop to moves towards Jordanian-Palestinian co-operation in
seeking a settlement with Israel, which would have excluded Syria.

Abu Nidal's men played an important role in disrupting these moves with attacks,
including the assassination in 1984 of a Jordanian diplomat in Bucharest, the
bombing in 1985 of the British Airways offices in Madrid and Rome, and the
murder in April 1985 of an exiled Palestinian West Bank mayor in Rome.

By the mid-1980s, however, Syria's President Assad was beginning to find the
terrorist connection an embarrassment. It was therefore time for Abu Nidal to
move on again. He had already established a foothold in Syrian-controlled
Lebanon and he consolidated his position both in the Bekaa Valley and in
Palestinian refugee camps around Beirut and Sidon. He had also established ties
with the Libyan dictator Colonel Gaddafi, whose hostility to the West and to
Arab moderates suited Abu Nidal's purposes.

By 1986, many of his men had installed themselves in camps in the Libyan desert
from where they continued their battle against Fatah. The most notable FRC
operation was the killing in Tunis of Abu Nidal's former mentor, the PLO
security chief Abu Iyad, just days before Operation Desert Storm. Since their
split in the mid 1970s, the two men had been engaged in a covert struggle to
destroy each other's organisations; Abu Iyad had scored notable successes during
the late 1980s by fomenting a rebellion within the FRC, but he paid with his
life.

Reports vary as to the exact cause of this rebellion, but in late 1987 some of
Abu Nidal's top aides tried to wrest power from the leadership. Abu Nidal's
efforts to retain control precipitated a bloody internal feud in which over 50
members died. The rebel faction, led by Atef Abu Bakr, returned to Fatah's fold,
leading to the effective emasculation of the FRC.

In 1990 there were reports that Abu Nidal had been enticed to Baghdad to work
for Saddam Hussein, but apparently little came of this and he remained in Libya.
But his years as a sponsored terrorist were numbered: his power base in Lebanon
had been destroyed by a Fatah crackdown, and Libya, suffering under
post-Lockerbie sanctions, became increasingly embarrassed by his presence and
kept him under close supervision.

A squat, balding man with a fearsome temper, Abu Nidal spent his last years a
lonely, paranoid and sickly figure. He had suffered a heart attack in 1979 and
had open heart surgery in 1992. His organisation was torn apart by in-fighting
and he found himself with fewer and fewer friends among Arab leaders. There were
reports that he was suffering from leukaemia.

His precise whereabouts during this time remained shrouded in mystery and there
were occasional reports that he had died. In 1998, he was rumoured to have been
seized by Egyptian security officials as he arrived from Libya carrying a
Tunisian passport under a false name, but the story was dismissed as "untrue and
baseless" by the Egyptian authorities.

The following year, he was reported to have fled to Iraq from a hospital bed in
Cairo, but the authorities there also denied any knowledge of his whereabouts,
saying there was still "bad blood" over the Palestinian's "treachery" in
double-dealing with Syria.

Yesterday, senior Palestinian officials in Ramallah claimed that Abu Nidal had
been "found dead in his apartment" in Baghdad from multiple gunshot wounds; the
Palestinian newspaper Al-Ayyam reported that he had died three days ago.
Palestinian officials suggested Abu Nidal had committed suicide. Members of his
family denied having been in contact with him, or claimed that he had died of
cancer some time ago.

Abu Nidal married a Nablus woman in 1962 and had a son.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 20, 2002

Mystery death of Abu Nidal, once the world's most wanted terrorist: The attacks
Group left a trail of death

BYLINE: Richard Nelsson, research department

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 247 words


The Abu Nidal Organisation is wanted for more than 90 attacks in 20 countries
from 1974-92, resulting in 900 deaths and injuries. Abu Nidal has been tried and
sentenced in absentia in various countries for killings which include:

1982


* Attempted assassination in London of Israeli envoy Shlomo Argov, the reason
cited by Israel for invasion of Lebanon


* Killed six in attack on a Parisian restaurant popular with French Jews

1984


* Assassinated a British diplomat in Athens, Ken Whitty


* Assassinated British deputy high commissioner in Bombay, Percy Norris

1985


* Kidnapped British journalist Alec Collett, who was working for UN in
Beirut.Collett was found dead on a gallows


* Bombed the office of British Airways in Madrid, killing a woman


* Egypt Air flight from Athens to Cairo hijacked and forced to land in Malta.
Six killed before commandos stormed plane, 58 died in the raid


* Eighteen killed in attacks on airline counters in Rome and Vienna airports

1986


* Hijacked Pan Am flight in Karachi, 17 people killed


* Attacked synagogue in Istanbul, killing 22

1988


* Five Britons among seven people killed in attack on a hotel in Khartoum


* Tourist ship attacked in Greece, nine killed

1989


* Abu Nidal orders the deaths of 165 members of his group

1991


* Assassinated Palestinian deputy chief Abu Iyad in Tunis

1994


* Assassinated a Jordanian diplomat in Lebanon


LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                August 20, 2002

Cabbie in terror at thugs' attack; Driver grabbed and gouged before stolen taxi
torched

BYLINE: Diane Williams

SECTION: CRIME; CAR CRIME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 431 words


A LLANELLI taxi driver whose cab was hijacked by a couple of thugs says he has
been left shocked and shaken by the attack.  Justin Jones, of Gower View, said
he dreads to think what would have happened if he had not escaped.

The 31-year-old, who has been working as a cabbie in the town for 11 years, was
attacked during the early hours of Saturday morning and his car was taken.

He picked up the two men near the Sol Bar in Park Street at about 3am but soon
after getting into his vehicle they started to argue about the fare.

Mr Jones said: "They got in the car and asked if I would take them to
Llangennech for GBP 5. I said no, it would cost them GBP 8 and I wanted the
money upfront.

"They started arguing with me, nagging me to take them for GBP 5, so I told them
I didn't want to take them at all and to get out of the car.

"But they refused. They said they weren't getting out and they were staying put.

"So I said I would take them to the police station and they could get them
out.'' Mr Jones said that as they were approaching Town Hall Square one of the
men got hold of the handbrake and forced the car to stop.

He said the other then grabbed him around the neck and there was a struggle.

"It all happened so quick,'' he said. "They were shouting at me to take them
where they wanted to go, I started shouting for them to get off me, but one of
them had me around the neck and put his fingers in my eye.

"I somehow managed to open the door and rolled out on to the ground. I got up
and turned around but I couldn't see at first, then one of them got in the front
and they drove off.'' The car was found burned out on wasteland in Llangennech.

Mr Jones, who has a three-and-a-half-year-old son, Drew, said he was lucky and
it could have been much worse.

But he is still very angry. He works for himself and without a car he has no
income.

Now he is appealing to people to help the police catch those responsible.

He said: "Who knows what would have happened if I hadn't have got out of the car
and they might do it again.'' One of the men is described as white, aged about
22 and of stocky build. He was about 5ft 5in, with dark hair and was wearing a
T-shirt.

The other man was also white, around the same age, slightly taller with dark
hair. Police say both men had local accents.

(If you have any information contact Llanelli police on 01554 772222 or phone
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

Caption: SHOCKED AND ANGRY Taxi driver Justin Jones, of Gower View, Llanelli,
whose cab was stolen by two customers.

D020818/2212/RM

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           August 21, 2002, Wednesday

WOMAN TELLS OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 163 words


A CO Antrim woman has told of her terror after three armed and masked men
pointed a gun in her face early yesterday.

The Randalstown mother, who is too scared to be named, said three men wearing
balaclavas and wielding a handgun and sledgehammers attacker her Neillsbrook
home at 1.50am.

"My son sleeps at the back of the house and was awakened with the commotion,"
she said.

"He looked out and saw the three men in the back yard.

"One was smashing windows, the other was trying to break down the back door with
a sledgehammer and the other stood with a gun just waiting."

The frightened woman, who is a Catholic, said a block hammer was fired at her
son's bedroom window.

"Then when the men realised they were not going to be able to get into the
house, because we have such a strong back door, one pointed a gun right into my
face before running off," she said.

The men - suspected of being loyalist paramilitaries - did not identify
themselves.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           August 21, 2002, Wednesday

WILL TOURISTS SHY AWAY AS ANNIVERSARY GETS CLOSER?;
 NEXT MONTH MARKS THE FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF THE HORRIFIC TERRORIST ATTACKS ON NEW
YORK. BUT AS THE CITY PREPARES TO MARK THE OCCASION, WILL THEY BE FACED WITH AN
INFLUX OF VISITORS. LISA PIDDINGTON AND MARTHA GRAYBOW REPORT

BYLINE: Lisa Piddington And Martha Graybow

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 703 words


It is nearly 12 months since the unthinkable happened - when two hijacked planes
crashed into the World Trade Centres, destroying one of the most famous
cityscapes forever.

Next month marks the first anniversary of the September 11 attacks, and New York
is bracing itself for what will be a very painful day.

But at the same time the city's tourism industry, badly hurt after the twin
tower attacks that killed more than 2,800 people, is also preparing for an
expected slowdown as travellers stay away while the city commemorates the
tragedy.

Figures show that tourism to the Big Apple has picked up during the year, but
hotels, restaurants and other attractions are still struggling with a decline in
international visitors and lower spending overall.

According to forecasts by NYC & Co, the city's official tourism organisation,
the average hotel room rate is now expected to fall to about pounds 120, down
nine per cent from last year as hotels cut prices to lure visitors, And while an
influx of business and high profile visitors is expected for big events next
month such as the United Nations General Assembly, it seems leisure travellers
are likely to stay at home.

Tourism professionals believe this is more likely to be a feeling that it is
inappropriate to be enjoying the city at a time when New Yorkers are reliving
the dark day, instead of being frightened to visit.

However, reports do reveal that a number of visitors have voiced fears about an
anniversary-related attack.

Florida resident Sylvia Weiffenbach had no qualms about visiting New York last
month as she enjoyed a holiday with her young daughter.

She felt secure getting on a plane and comforted by the police presence around
Manhattan, taking in The Lion King on Broadway as well as making a solemn visit
to the site of the attacks, at Ground Zero.

But as the Big Apple marks the anniversary, Weiffenbach says she wouldn't dream
of making the same trip.

'It's not that I'd be afraid - it's just too emotional,' explained the 42-year
-old writer who lives in Palmetto, Florida. 'I want to be in my home dealing
with it.'

Ron Didner, general manager of Caf des Artistes, a Manhattan restaurant popular
with tourists, believed that visitor numbers would be low.

'My feeling is that people are going to stay away from New York until after
September 11,' he said. 'I've heard a lot of people are afraid of the
anniversary day.'

The effects will be felt beyond New York, as well. Airlines will offer fewer
flights nationwide on September 11 as many people don't want to fly on the day -
even though fares are slashed or tickets even free.

At travel agencies, few travellers - except those booking long-standing business
trips - have made plans to come to New York in mid-September, which is generally
a popular time to visit.

But the September 11 memorial events are expected to draw 'patriotic' travellers
from around the United States and further afield - particularly rescue workers
who helped with the recovery in the aftermath of the attacks, said Cristyne
Nicholas, head of NYC & Co.

'We have a strong indication that many of the rescue workers want to come back,'
she said.

And conventions and other events should keep September a busy month for tourism
overall, Nicholas added. The WaldorfAstoria in midtown Manhattan has no
conferences or other big events booked for September 11, said hotel
representative Shelley Clark.

But the famous hotel expects to be sold out that week because of the opening of
the UN General Assembly on September 10.

'If it weren't for that, things would be very, very soft,' Clark said.

And the 1,946-room Marriott Marquis hotel in Times Square is nearly sold out for
several days during the week of the anniversary because of an unrelated
convention, said Kathleen Duffy, a spokeswoman for Marriott.

Tourism officials are encouraging businesses to stay open on September 11. Some
Broadway shows, however, will remain dark out of respect for the memorial
commemorations.

'People have been watching September - we've known that this is going to be a
very difficult period,' Nicholas said. 'But we also owe it to our city to stay
open.'

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                 August 21, 2002, Wednesday Edition JL2108-01A

Nuclear port 'vulnerable to terrorist attack'

BYLINE: By Tony Henderson, The Journal

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 343 words


   Greenpeace claimed yesterday that it had demonstrated the vulnerability of a
Cumbrian military and nuclear port to terrorist attack.

The organisation said that it had attached a large compressed air banner to the
harbour wall outside Barrow-in-Furness, which is used by nuclear submarines, and
yesterday inflated the remote-controlled device.

It claimed the operation by volunteers wearing scuba equipment was designed to
demonstrate how easy it would be for terrorists to attack two ships transporting
dangerous plutonium MOX fuel from Japan when they arrive at the port next month.

The uninflated banner, weighing one tonne, was attached to the wall beneath the
waterline under cover of darkness.

Yesterday the radio-controlled banner was inflated and a cartoon-style bomb the
size of a double-decker bus emerged from the sea near where the nuclear
transports will pass.

Greenpeace said that if terrorists were to detonate a real bomb in the harbour
when the ships arrive, a large part of North-West England could be left
uninhabitable for hundreds of years.

Greenpeace executive director Stephen Tindale said: "With basic equipment and
little expertise we were able to simply float a boat up to the port, dive down
and submerge a one-tonne device although harmless against the harbour wall.

"It was left there for hours until we inflated it. This demonstrates how
pathetic security around the harbour is and shows the insanity of transporting
extremely dangerous plutonium from port to port.

"We should pray that a terrorist group is not planning something because if they
are they'll find it easier than they could possibly have imagined.

"These ships are carrying enough plutonium to make 50 nuclear bombs and could do
immeasurable damage."

But the Greenpeace action was described yesterday by British Nuclear Fuels as a
cheap publicity stunt.

A BNFL spokesman said there had been "no breach of security" and the
demonstration had taken place around a quarter of a mile from their docking
area, outside the security zone.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 21, 2002, Wednesday

BATTLE HERO'S ATTACK TERROR;
 OAP TELLS OF PAIN

BYLINE: Caitlin Mackay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 276 words

HIGHLIGHT: SHOUTS: James


A WAR hero told a jury how he was brutally robbed just hours before leaving for
a battlefield reunion.

Brave ex-paratrooper James Redpath, 77, said he vainly tried to fight off his
two attackers after they pounced as he made his way home from a bar.

He said: "The man put his arm around my throat and dragged me to the ground
before threatening to hit me with a bottle if I did not stop shouting for help."

Arnhem veteran Mr Redpath was giving evidence at the trial of Archibald Kerr at
Glasgow Sheriff Court.

Kerr, 33, from Irvine, Ayrshire, denies punching and kicking him and robbing Mr
Redpath of pounds 400, a passport and a chequebook in Glasgow, in April this
year.

A warrant has been issued for the arrest of an alleged female accomplice, who
failed to appear for the trial.

Mr Redpath said the woman ripped open his coat pocket and took loose change
while he wrestled with Kerr.

As he lay dazed after the attack, two boys stopped to help him before police
arrived.

Officers then took him on a tour of the area in attempt to spot the muggers. He
later picked out a couple from a CCTV recording of Glasgow city centre.

Questioned by James Irvine, defending, he agreed that, despite the police
showing him the video, he had been unable to pick out Kerr at a police ID
parade.

But he insisted he was sure it was Kerr who had attacked him because he now had
a closer look at his features in court.

Mr Redpath, badly wounded in the legs during the Arnhem offensive, says he had
been finalising travel plans for a battlefield reunion just before he was
attacked.

The trial before Sheriff Rita Rae QC continues.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                            August 22, 2002 Thursday

Teenager in terror sex attack

BYLINE: LAURIE COOMBS

LENGTH: 265 words


A TEENAGER has been subjected to a terrifying sexual assault just yards from the
scene of another daylight attack three days before.

The incident is the third such attack in a week but police were unavailable to
say whether they think the incidents are linked. The latest attack took place
between 6.45pm and 7pm yesterday in Princess Way, Stretton, as a 17-year-old
girl walked home. The attacker approached the teeneager from behind and
indecently assaulted her, before pulling down his trousers and underwear and
carrying out a serious sexual assault. The victim made an attempt to fight him
off, and after a short while he let go of her, but he then grabbed her from the
front and carried out a second obscene act. She managed to push her attacker off
and made her way across fields towards her home. The pervert continued to follow
her, however, asking where she lived and trying to make further conversation.
The woman shouted at him to leave her alone, and the assailant eventually ran
off. The suspect was of Asian appearance, 17, 5ft 6ins, thin, with medium-length
dark hair. He was wearing a grey jumper and possibly had a moustache.  The
incident follows a previous attack on a 27-year-old woman in an alleyway off
Eton Road Community Park on Sunday, in which there were several similarities to
yesterday's incident.  A youth of Asian appearance aged around 16 again tried to
engage her in conversation before subjecting her to an indecent assault and
carrying out an obscene act. Anyone with information should on any of the
attacks should contact Burton police on 01283 565011.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2002 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 23, 2002

Diana's death is our most abiding memory;September 11 terrorist attacks and
second world war top poll of the most significant events of the last century

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 652 words


FORGET two world wars and a royal abdication - the death of Diana, Princess of
Wales, was named yesterday as the most memorable British date of the past 100
years.

Together with the the terror attacks in America on September 11, which came top
of the world events, Diana's tragic death was the most significant historical
date in the last century.

Historians say the findings prove modern-day Britons have a greater link to more
recent televised events rather than dates in the distant past.

The survey reveals the majority of people in Britain believe dates from the past
decade are more memorable than those of 50 to 100 years ago.

Nearly a quarter (22%) of respondents voted the death of Diana in August 1997 a
more significant date in British history than the end of the first world war
(8%) or the start of the Falklands conflict (4%).

Nearly half of all respondents (41%) voted the September 11 World Trade Centre
attacks as the most significant date in world history in the past 100 years,
compared with a poll of just 2% for the assassination of John Kennedy, the US
president, and only 9% for the first landing of a man on the moon.

The end of the second world war, marked by the dropping of an atomic bomb over
Hiroshima, was a distant second in the top ten, with only 19% saying this was a
significant date.

More than a third of men said they would prefer a new car to a copy of their
complete family history.

The majority of young people believe that September 11, 2001 is the most
significant date in world history in the past 100 years, compared with 28% of
those aged over 65.

Only 1% of people thought the abdication of King Edward VIII was the most
significant date in British history.

One in eight men believe England winning the World Cup in 1966 was the most
significant moment in British history.

Researchers say the findings send a wake-up call to Britons, who are in danger
of losing their personal history because it is no longer seen to have value.

A third of respondents (36%) admitted to having no memento of sentimental value
to pass on to future generations and as many as a quarter of respondents
indicated they would prefer an exotic holiday over a completed copy of their
family history.

The survey of more than 1000 people was carried out by the History Channel cable
and satellite broadcaster.

Dr Nick Barratt, consultant historian at the channel said: "The value and
significance people place on historical dates is strongly influenced by their
own personal experience of those events. The immediacy of the 24/7 information
economy is having a big impact on the way people feel about these events.

"Everyone has a memory of where they were at the time of September 11 and it's
these personalised accounts of history that The History Channel want to archive
with its 'small piece of history' project before its too late and they become
forgotten.

He added: "The results highlight the need to ensure our rich oral history is
preserved."

dates we remember

Most memorable dates in British history:

1 Princess Diana death 31/8/97

2 Start of the second world war 3/9/1939

3 Women win right to vote 6/12/18

4 Northern Ireland Good Friday Agreement 10/4/98

5 End of the first world war 11/11/18

6 England win World Cup 30/7/66

7 Queen Elizabeth's Coronation 2/6/53

8 Start of Falklands war 2/4/82

9 John Lennon assassinated 8/12/80

10 Abdication of King Edward 11/12/36

Most memorable dates in world history:

1 World Trade Centre attack 11/9/2001

2 Atomic bomb on Hiroshima 6/8/1945

3 Berlin Wall falls 22/12/89

4 First man lands on moon 20/6/69

5 Nelson Mandela freed 13/2/90

6 End of the first world war 11/11/18

7 John F Kennedy assassinated 22/11/63

8 Lockerbie disaster 21/12/88

9 Vietnam war ceasefire 27/1/73

10 Tiananmen Square massacre 4/6/89

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SAD MEMORIES: Princes Charles, William and Harry and Earl Spencer bow
their heads as the coffin of Diana, Princess of Wales, is carried into
Westminster Abbey Picture: Fiona Hanson;UNFORGETTABLE: Troops wade ashore at
Normandy in June 1944, after the D-Day landings.

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            August 23, 2002, Friday

PROFITS SLUMP AT ROLLS-ROYCE AFTER US TERRORIST ATTACKS;
 AVIATION: SHARP FALL IN DEMAND FOR ENGINES

BYLINE: Graeme Evans

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 301 words


ENGINE giant Rolls-Royce unveiled sharply lower profits yesterday and warned
that next year's recovery could be hit by a pension review.

The group has borne the brunt of the post September 11 aviation downturn, as
deliveries in the civil sector are expected to slump 36pc this year.

That left underlying profits in the six months to June 30 down at pounds 104m
from the pounds 190m achieved a year earlier. Bottom-line pre-tax profits were
pounds 33m against pounds 137m in 2001.

The slump comes after underlying profits in Rolls-Royce's biggest division -
civil aviation - fell to pounds 55m from pounds 163m last time.

However, Rolls-Royce chairman, Sir Ralph Robins, said the business had performed
as expected after restructuring which included 5,000 job losses at the end of
last year.

The company said it was positioned for growth in 2003 but warned that the final
outcome for next year could be influenced by any increase that might be required
in pension fund contributions. The next review of the main RollsRoyce pension
fund is due in March and based on market levels at June 30 could result in the
group taking an additional pounds 35m charge to its profitand-loss account.

Chief executive John Rose drew encouragement from the company's record forward
order book of pounds 16.7bn, which had grown by pounds 2.6bn in the first half
of the year.

Rolls-Royce engines now power 38 of the world's top 50 airlines and Mr Rose said
the wide range of customers helped protect the company from the post September
11 financial difficulties of individual airlines.

There are now 9,500 of its jet engines in service. This should lead to higher
after-market service revenues in 2003, said Rolls-Royce.

Shareholders will receive an unchanged interim dividend of 3.18p.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 24, 2002

Review: Essay: War of the worlds: It has become synonymous with the terrorist
attacks of September 11 - but what is the origin of the name al-Qaida? Giles
Foden on how Bin Laden may have been inspired by Isaac Asimov's Foundation

BYLINE: Giles Foden

SECTION: Guardian Saturday Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 3277 words


In October last year, an item appeared on an authoritative Russian studies
website that soon had the science-fiction community buzzing with speculative
excitement. It asserted that Isaac Asimov's 1951 classic Foundation was
translated into Arabic under the title "al-Qaida". And it seemed to have the
evidence to back up its claims.

"This peculiar coincidence would be of little interest if not for abundant
parallels between the plot of Asimov's book and the events unfolding now," wrote
Dmitri Gusev, the scientist who posted the article. He was referring to apparent
similarities between the plot of Foundation and the pursuit of the organisation
we have come to know, perhaps erroneously, as al-Qaida.

The Arabic word qaida - ordinarily meaning "base" or "foundation" - is also used
for "groundwork" and "basis". It is employed in the sense of a military or naval
base, and for chemical formulae and geometry: the base of a pyramid, for
example. Lane, the best Arab-English lexicon, gives these senses: foundation,
basis of a house; the supporting columns or poles of a structure; the lower
parts of clouds extending across a horizon; a universal or general rule or
canon. With the coming of the computer age, it has gained the further meaning of
"database": qaida ma'lumat (information base).

Qaida itself comes from the root verb q-'-d: to sit down, remain, stay, abide.
Many people appear to think al-Qaida's name emerged from some idea of a physical
base - a command centre from where Bin Laden and other leaders could direct
operations. "We've got to get back to al-Qaida on that one," it's possible to
imagine a footsoldier saying. Bin Laden himself has spoken, post-September 11,
of being in "a very safe place". There have also been stories that his father
had a vernal estate called al-Qaida in Yemen or Saudi Arabia. Could there be a
sense in which the name of the organisation represents a notion of the eternal
home in the consciousness of its fugitive leader?

On the surface, the most improbable explanation of the name is that Bin Laden
was somehow inspired by a Russian-born writer who lived most of his life in the
US and was once the world's most prolific sci-fi novelist (born in 1920 in
Smolensk, Asimov died in New York in 1992). But the deeper you dig, the more
plausible it seems that al-Qaida's founders may have borrowed some rhetoric from
Foundation and its successors (it became a series) and possibly from other
science fiction material. As Nick Mamatas argued in an article on sci-fi fans in
Gadfly magazine, "even the terror of September 11th had science fictional
overtones: it was both an attack on New York from a tin-plated overlord with
delusions of grandeur and a single cataclysmic event that seemingly changed
everything, for ever".

Science fiction has often featured "evil empires" against which are set utopian
ideas whose survival must be fought for against the odds by a small but
resourceful band of men. Such empires often turn out to be amazingly fragile
when faced by intelligent idealists. Intelligent idealists who are also
psychopaths might find comfort in a fictional role model - especially one
created by a novelist famous for castigating that "amiable dunce" Ronald Reagan:
the president who prosecuted the CIA's secret war in Afghanistan.

The Empire portrayed in Asimov's novels is in turmoil - he cited Gibbon's
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire as an influence. Beset by overconsumption,
corruption and inefficiency, "it had been falling for centuries before one man
really became aware of that fall. That man was Hari Seldon, the man who
represented the one spark of creative effort left among the gathering decay. He
developed and brought to its highest pitch the science of psycho-history."

Seldon is a scientist and prophet who predicts the Empire's fall. He sets up his
Foundation in a remote corner of the galaxy, hoping to build a new civilisation
from the ruins of the old. The Empire attacks the Foundation with all its
military arsenal and tries to crush it. Seldon uses a religion (based on
scientific illu sionism) to further his aims. These are tracked by the novel and
its sequels across a vast tract of time. For the most part, his predictions come
true.

Seldon, like Bin Laden, transmits videotaped messages for his followers,
recorded in advance. There is also some similarity in geopolitical strategy.
Seldon's vision seems oddly like the way Bin Laden has conceived his campaign.
"Psycho-history" is the statistical treatment of the actions of large
populations across epochal periods - the science of mobs as Asimov calls it.
"Hari Seldon plotted the social and economic trends of the time, sighted along
curves and foresaw the continuing and accelerating fall of civilisation."

So did Bin Laden use Foundation as a kind of imaginative sounding-board for the
creation of al-Qaida? Perhaps reading the book in his pampered youth, and later
on seeing his destiny in terms of the ruthless manipulation of historical
forces? Did he realise much earlier than anyone else that the march of
globalisation would provide opportunities for those who wanted to rouse and
exploit the dispossessed?

In the Arab newspaper al-Hayat, the Muslim intellectual Yussuf Samahah put it
like this: "Anyone who believes that his (Bin Laden's) 'ideas' and the new
phenomenon (globalisation) are contradictory would be mistaken, because while
globalisation is gradually uniting the planet, it is causing many introverted
and revivalist reactions which use the tools that globalisation provides to give
the impression that they are not only fighting it but will ultimately defeat
it." Using something like game-theory, Asimov's Hari Seldon worked on exactly
such principles, taking into account, across time, the dynamic between
intergalactic megatrends and local reactions to them.

If Bin Laden did read Asimov, when was it? It is clear that from an early age he
consumed western products and media, until a fundamentalist reversion occurred
when he met the Palestinian preacher Abdullah Azzam, who was to be a crucial
influence.

As Bin Laden's best biographer, Yossef Bodansky, puts it, he "started the 1970s
as did many other sons of the affluent and well-connected - breaking the strict
Muslim lifestyle in Saudi Arabia with sojourns in cosmopolitan Beirut. While in
high school and college, Osama visited Beirut often, frequenting flashy
nightclubs, casinos, and bars. He was a drinker and womaniser, which often got
him into bar brawls." If Bin Laden did read Foundation , it most likely would
have been in these wild years, when he was aping western habits. Maybe he read
an English version, bought in one of Beirut's English-language bookshops, or
during a trip to the US or London (where he bought property in Wembley).

Was there any science fiction for him to read in Arabic? A search dating from
1972 to the present of the Index Translationem , Unesco's register of translated
books, reveals a reasonable amount of classic fantastic fiction in Arabic: The
Time Machine , The Invisible Man , Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea . But
so far as 20th-century science fiction is concerned, a search found only two
clear-cut examples: a 1985 Kuwait book which collected Ray Bradbury's Pillar of
Fire and The Fog Horn and a 1988 Iraqi edition of Colin Wilson's The Mind
Parasites.

Maybe, says Dennis Lien from the University of Minnesota, who made the search,
the fabled Arabic edition of Foundation was published prior to 1972 and has not
been reprinted since, but passed from hand to hand. "I suppose one could argue
that since Asimov was Jewish it may have become politically incorrect in the
Islamic world to reprint his books, but the same argument would apply against
their being printed to any great degree in the first place."

In the wake of September 11, the spectre of another science-fiction novel, Frank
Herbert's Dune , was also raised as a possible influence on Bin Laden's
self-mythology. It features a mysterious man whose followers, Arabic-speaking
sons of the desert, live in caves and tunnels. They engage in a religious jihad
against a corrupt imperialist civilisation.

The case that science fiction, and in particular Asimov, could have had an
effect on Bin Laden is strengthened by their better documented effects on other
psychopathic personalities. Japan's Aum Shinrikyo sect - which released 11
packets of deadly sarin gas into the Tokyo subway in 1995 - was also apparently
trying to build a community of scientists modelled on the members of Asimov's
Foundation. "Aum's bible was, believe it or not, the Foundation series by Isaac
Asimov," says David Kaplan, author of The Cult at the End of the World , a book
on the sect, or "guild" as it styled itself.

This is backed up by others. According to Yoichi Clark Shimatsu, former editor
of the Japan Times Weekly, "The ultimate purpose of the guild, said the sect's
science minister Hideo Murai, before he was murdered by a Korean gangster, is to
rebuild civilisation after a cataclysm and to combat the powerful globalist
institutions that are bringing on an apocalypse."

In 1995, after the subway attacks, a coded letter arrived at the magazine
Takarajima 30. Believed to have been from Aum sympathisers, it gives a sense of
how seriously the sect's members took Asimov and science fiction more generally.
The letter, which promised an attack on the Tokaimura nuclear reprocessing
plant, embedded its threat in a passage of literary criticism.

Shimatsu explains: "The letter was a rebuttal to an essay by Susan Sontag in
which she claims the sci-fi film genre is based on a fascination with
catastrophe in the age of the bomb. Instead, this critic asserted, science
fiction is really about surviving catastrophe, and is therefore optimistic - and
the key to the genre is the longing for a sense of scientific community
resembling the craft guilds of the past.

"A professor of American literature at one of Tokyo's top universities, a
specialist in science fiction, immediately recognised the passage as the work of
literary critic Frederic Jameson. It was obviously selected as a defense of the
Aum sect's effort to build a community of scientists modelled after Isaac
Asimov's Foundation series."

A small, unplanned nuclear reaction took place at the Tokaimura plant in 1999,
the same year the Japanese government cracked down on the sect. There had been
other, more minor incidents. All are generally attributed to human error, but
Shimatsu believes they may be connected to a second, resurgent wing of Aum
working in the nuclear industry on Asimovian lines. "Aum enjoys a huge following
within Japan's nuclear establishment, which is riddled with believers from
millennialist sects. Another clue is contained in Asimov's masterpiece. After
the visible First Foundation was crushed by the Galactic Empire, the invisible
Second Foundation persisted to eventually win the universal struggle."

One can't blame Asimov for fuelling the swollen fantasies of the murderous. It
is the last thing this committed pacifist ("violence is the last refuge of the
incompetent") would have wanted. He may not be the only famous sci-fi author to
have been taken up by lunatics, anyway. Killer cultist Charles Manson's
favourite book is said to have been Stranger in a Strange Land , written by
Asimov's rival for the imaginative future Robert Heinlein.

More generally, the space opera sub-genre of science fiction offers the
possibility of a massive expansion of self- mythologising will-to-power. In a
1999 New Yorker article on galactic empires, Oliver Moreton beamed up French
philosopher Gaston Bachelard, author of The Poetics of Space , to explain all
this: "Immensity is a philosophical category of daydream. Daydream undoubtedly
feeds on all kinds of sights, but through a sort of natural inclination, it
contemplates grandeur. And this contemplation produces an attitude that is so
special, an inner state that is so unlike any other, that the daydream
transports the dreamer outside the immediate world to a world that bears the
mark of infinity." A world, one might add, in which knocking down the twin
towers with passenger jets seems a possibility that can be realised.

As a genre, science fiction can't claim exclusive villainous effect. Other
figures of extreme public animus have been influenced by different types of
novels. Ted Kaczynski, the Unabomber, who held science in contempt, told his
family that he'd read Conrad's The Secret Agent "about a dozen times" in his
Montana hut, and is thought to have modelled himself on Conrad's anarchist. He
also registered under the name "Conrad" in the Sacramento hotel from which he's
believed to have sent his bombs. Earth First!, the militant US environmental
gang, claim inspiration from Edward Abbey's 1975 novel, The Monkey-Wrench Gang ,
in which eco-guerrillas sabotage dams and bridges. Oklahoma bomber Timothy
McVeigh was a fan of neo-Nazi William Pierce's The Turner Diaries , which tells
of a group that blows up the FBI headquarters in Washington.

As, in that very same biscuit-brown building in Federal Plaza, more "Most
Wanted" pictures of Bin Laden were being pinned up in the wake of September 11,
the Asimov/al-Qaida story was spreading. There was a piece in the Ottawa
Citizen. On Ansible, one of the most popular science-fiction websites, hip
sci-fi novelist China Mieville was quoted: "An expert on the Middle East told me
about a rumour circulating about the name of Bin Laden's network. The term
al-Qaida seems to have no political precedent in Arabic, and has therefore been
something of a conundrum to the experts . . . Unlikely as it sounds, this is the
only theory anyone can come up with."

The expert Mieville was referring to is Fred Halliday, who teaches international
relations at the LSE. Trying to define al-Qaida, Halliday inclu-ded the Asimov
connection as a glancing aside in the "keywords" section of Two Hours that Shook
the World , a book about September 11: "The term has no apparent antecedents in
Islamic or Arabic political history: explanations range from a protected region
during the communist era in Afghanistan, to it being an allusion to the Bin
Laden family's construction company, to the title of a 1951 Isaac Asimov novel
which was translated into Arabic as al-Qaida ."

Many readers of Gusev's original website posting disagreed with its thesis
entirely. "Asimov's story hinges on a secular extrapolation of human history
based on mathematics," says John Jenkins, an expert on the author. "It's an idea
which would make a Muslim extremist cringe." A letter to the most important
British science-fiction magazine, Interzone, pointed out that the German title
of Karl Marx's preparatory musings on capital, Grundrisse , can also be
translated as "base" or "foundation".

Fantasy has certainly been an element in other terror campaigns, as in the
influence of Celtic myths of nationhood on Irish Republicanism. Fergal Keane
brought a quotation from Yeats into his contribution to the BBC's 9/11 book The
Day that Shook the World: "The heart fed on fantasy, grown brutal from the
fare." What Yeats was indicating, says Keane, "was the power of mythology in the
shaping of the terrorist's consciousness". To be capable of sustaining a savage
war, he went on, "it is necessary to narrow the mind, make it subject to a very
limited range of ideas and influences".

That would seem to cut out Asimov. But other reasons why al-Qaida might be so
called are no less mysterious. After all, communiques issued by Bin Laden and
his associates never use the name. Instead they refer to themselves as the
"World Islamic Front for Jihad against Jews and the Crusaders", the "Islamic
Army for the Liberation of Holy Places" and so on.

The first use of al-Qaida in western media was in 1996 in an American newspaper
report which identified it as another name of the Islamic Salvation Foundation,
one of Bin Laden's jihadi charities. The term only came into general usage after
the group's bombing of the US embassies in East Africa in 1998, when the FBI and
CIA fingered it as an umbrella organisation for various projects of Bin Laden
and his associates - many of which grew out of ideas originally hatched by
Abdullah Azzam, who'd been killed by a car-bomb in Peshawar in 1989.

The network grew exponentially. By the time Bin Laden was expelled from Sudan in
1996, his roster of jihadis had been computerised. Flying back to Afghanistan on
a C-130 transport plane, he is said to have had with him, along with his wives
and 150 supporters, a laptop computer containing the names of the thousands of
fighters and activists who would help him further expand his struggle against
the west. This qaida ma'lumat , this "information base", seems a very plausible
source of the name.

Dr Saad al-Fagih, a Saudi dissident and former Afghan mujahideen, thinks the
term is over-used: "Well I really laugh when I hear the FBI talking about
al-Qaida as an organisation of Bin Laden." Al-Qaida was just a service for
relatives of jihadis, he said, speaking to the American PBS show Frontline. "In
1988 he (Bin Laden) noticed that he was backward in his documentation and was
not able to give answers to some families asking about their loved ones gone
missing in Afghanistan. He decided to make the matter much more organised and
arr-anged for proper documentation."

Fascinatingly, the acclaimed biography of Bin Laden by Yossef Bodansky, director
of the US Congressional Task Force on Terrorism, hardly mentions the name
al-Qaida. Written before September 11, it does so only to emphasise that
al-Qaida is the wrong name altogether: "A lot of money is being spent on a
rapidly expanding web of Islamist charities and social services, including the
recently maligned al-Qaida. Bin Laden's first charity, al-Qaida, never amounted
to more than a loose umbrella framework for supporting like-minded individuals
and their causes. In the aftermath of the 1998 bombings in Nairobi and
Dar-es-Salaam, al-Qaida has been portrayed in the west as a cohesive terrorist
organisation, but it is not."

There's no doubt that the name came to prominence in part because America needed
to conceptualise its enemy. This is certainly what Bodansky thinks now. "In the
aftermath of September 11," he says, "both governments and the media in the west
had to identify an entity we should hate and fight against."

Rohan Gunatara, research fellow at the centre for the study of terrorism and
political violence at the University of St Andrews, takes a different view. In
an important recent book on al-Qaida, he argues that the name came from
political theory, citing the concept of al-Qaida al-Sulbah (the solid base)
formulated in an essay by Abdullah Azzam, Bin Laden's intellectual mentor. The
solid base provided a platform, Azzam wrote, for the "sole purpose of creating
societies founded on the strictest Islamic principles".

Al-Qaida al-Sulbah mixes a type of revolutionary vanguardism, borrowed from
European political philosophy, with Islamic martyrdom: it's the pioneering
vanguard that, after "a long period of training and hatching", must be prepared
to "jump into the fire". And there may be another borrowing: the essay reads
like nothing so much as Hari Seldon's plans for his foundation. Perhaps it was
Azzam, after all, who read Asimov.

Zanzibar , Giles Foden's novel about the 1998 embassy bombings, is published by
Faber at pounds 14.99 on September 2. To order a copy for pounds 12.99 plus p&p
call Guardian book service on 0870 066 7979.


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                August 24, 2002

Drifting back to the Nile;
 Tourism to Egypt slumped after the tragic terrorist attack there in 1997.
Sylvia Kingsley became one of the thousands of sight-seers now returning

SECTION: Travel, Pg.14

LENGTH: 674 words


EGYPT is back in business. After five years in the tourism doldrums following
the terrorist atrocity of 1997, the country is winning new popularity.

The stringent security put in place at all attractions following the deaths of
68 people at Luxor is reassuring visitors, who are now flocking back to the land
of the ancients.

Last year there were 200,000 tourists from Britain alone - and no wonder. Egypt
boasts some of the world's most amazing historical treasures. It is the only
place in the world where - as a road sign on the way to Luxor informs drivers -
you can look 7,000 years of civilisation in the face.

The best way to see the country is by cruising the Nile, one of the greatest
rivers in the world and the lifeblood of Egypt. We boarded the Nile Ritz at
Luxor and spent four days exploring the many attractions along the river 's
banks.

First call was Karnak Temple, considered Egypt's grandest monument. Its largest
court is so vast it could house the mighty Notre Dame cathedral of Paris. There
are also sacred lakes, chapels and sphinx-lined avenues to explore at this site.

Sunset, when the floodlights come on and the stone turns pink, is the hour for
seeing Luxor Temple. Less important than Karnak, it was used during the New Year
's pageant for the ancient Egyptians' chief god, Amon.

Back on board the Nile Ritz after our first dose of culture, we enjoyed a buffet
supper, followed by a belly-dancing show. The next day, intoxicated by the hot
sun and ancient rocks, we headed for the Valley Of The Kings and descended into
tombs filled with miraculously preserved paintings of birds, animals and
goddesses.

After dinner, we chatted on deck with our companions from around the world
before cruising on to Queen Hatshpsut's elegant temple. A lady who knew her own
mind, she ruled first as a king, then as a queen!

Next evening on the ship is Galabiyya night. Long, traditional robes, turbans or
fez hats are worn. An oriental feast is followed by dancing to loud Egyptian
music and everyone has a thoroughly good time.

Aswan is the last stop. Egypt's most southerly town on the Nile is a melting pot
of people. It is a lovely town, and a favourite of Baroness Thatcher 's.

Its market is full of treasures to take home - spices, jewellery, leather goods
and brassware.

At the Old Cataract Hotel, Agatha Christie wrote some of her thrillers while her
archaeologist husband was working on digs.

A felucca ride at sunset is the best to enjoy Aswan's calm beauty. The river is
full of these graceful boats.

On Philae Island, reached by motorboat, stands the Temple of Isis - which has
its own spectacular sound-and-light show. Governor General Kitchener was
presented with the island as a reward for his military exploits in the Sudan.

The Nubia Museum, high on a hill above Aswan, is devoted to the history and
civilisation of the Nubians and is worth a visit.

Before leaving the town, we visited the Nubian Perfume Parlour where the "scents
of the centuries" are revealed to visitors.

We enjoyed a glass of hibiscus juice, said to lower blood pressure. Then Secret
Of The Desert, a blend of more than 100 flowers claimed to be the Viagra of the
ancients, is brought out. It was supposedly used by King Ramses II. Since he
fathered 106 children, there may be some truth in the claim. A concoction
apparently popular with visiting Brits is mint oil. It helps clear blocked
sinuses.

Bustling with street life and hundreds of horse-drawn buggies, Luxor has many
restaurants and markets. Bazaars stay open until the early hours and the
shopping is good.

Visitors to Queen Nefertari's tomb in the Valley Of The Queens get just ten
minutes to see this marvel. Limits of 150 people a day have been imposed to
protect it from pollution. It is a privilege to see; the walls are a mass of
paintings retaining their original colours.

Warm and welcoming, the Egyptian people are happy to see their visitors
returning and you'll be delighted to share their history.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                August 26, 2002

Service for terror attack daughter;
 ANNIVERSARY: September 11 victim remembered

BYLINE: Amy Wilson

SECTION: News :People :Anniversaries/births, Pg.3

LENGTH: 287 words


A REMEMBRANCE service will be held by a Bath vicar whose daughter was killed in
the US terrorist attacks of September 11.

The Rev David Prothero will conduct a service at St Mary's Church in Bathwick a
year to the day when thousands were killed in the New York tragedy.

His daughter, Sarah Redheffer, was working on the 106th floor of the second of
the World Trade Center towers, just four floors from the top of the building,
when the terrorists struck.

The 35-year-old, whose husband Eric is American, was working in New York for
British publishing company Risk Waters.

Following news of her death, her parents, the Rev Prothero and his wife Sue, set
up an appeal and raised around 10,000 to help children.

Half of it went to youngsters in Afganistan and the other half was donated to
the Save the Children Fund.

Now a eucharist of remembrance has been planned for the evening of September 11
to mark the first anniversary of the tragedy.

Rev Prothero will preach during the service.

And Mrs Prothero, Sarah's mother, said: "It's just an ordinary service we have
on a Wednesday evening. We will simply be focusing on remembrance of September
11. I suppose everybody is doing something.

"I don't think it would be any harder than any other day this year but with
media attention it's probably going to be a little more difficult than the
others."

Rev and Mrs Prothero have been contacted by numerous television and radio shows
putting together programmes to mark the first anniversary of the terrorist
attacks which sent shockwaves around the world.

For more information about the evening service, call the parish office on 447450
or e-mail office@bathwickparishes. org. uk.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                August 27, 2002

WE'VE NO COPTERS SO TROOPS WOULD HAVE TO GO BY BUS; IRELAND TERROR ATTACK
SCANDAL

BYLINE: By Ian Mallon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 4

LENGTH: 596 words


IRELAND was last night described as the most vulnerable state in western Europe
by senior Army sources, who warned: "We are wide open to terrorist attack."

And in the event of a national emergency the only way defence services could
transport large numbers of elite personnel to the scene is by coach.

The warning comes just weeks before the anniversary of September 11 - a time
when western states will be put on a high state of alert given the threat of
more atrocities from Al Qaeda.

By allowing US warplanes to refuel at Shannon airport Ireland could be viewed by
terrorists as a legitimate target for strikes. Should Ireland be targeted for
attack, or if a hijacked plane was brought to Shannon, it would take hours to
get a battalion of Rangers there.

Senior sources said that getting the elite wing from A-to-B is "an extremely
worrying dilemma".

With not one large helicopter in its fleet of aircraft the defence forces w ould
be forced to ferry small groups of Rangers from its base on the Curragh - or
they may have to be transported by coach.

Following the now resolved legal problems over the awarding of the contract for
supplying new large craft to the State, the Minister of Defence has no immediate
plans to purchase new helicopters.

Five medium-range craft, that w ould each be capable of carrying a battalion of
troops, will not be brought in until next year at the very least least.

The make or model has not yet been determined, but two of these would be
assigned as lift craft, and with the other three being given to search and
rescue.

In the event of an emergency the army currently has at its disposal four
Dauphans, one Gazelle and seven Allouettes.

With these craft only capable of carrying between three and five soldiers
apiece, army sources warned that it would take "an absolute age" to assemble a
battalion at any trouble spot.

At any given time 30 of the army's 100 Rangers are on a state of constant red
alert in the Curragh. One source warned last night: "We are the laughing stock
of Europe when it comes to our nation's defence.

"Ireland is an isolated state on the extreme West of Europe.

"Shannon airport is the last major port of call before getting to America, and
should be protected appropriately. But because of the delay in getting troops to
Shannon, it is one of the most vulnerable airports in Europe."

The only medium sized aircraft that the defence forces has at its disposal to
ferry groups of soldiers are two Casa planes. However, the high-tech
surveillance craft are not designed as people carriers.

As aeroplanes they are totally inappropriate for use in what the army calls
"rapid insertion and extraction" - to get troops in and out of a trouble spot
quickly.

The Casas are kept at Baldonnel aerodrome and have been used as expensive air
taxis for Government ministers and officials over the past four years.

Tanaiste Mary Harney created a storm last December when she used one to attend
the opening of a friend's off licence in Manorhamilton, Co Leitrim.

The only large helicopters used by the state are two Sikorskys, which are leased
to the Department of Marine for the Coastguard.

The army last night reiterated the importance of having appropriate craft to
protect the national security of Ireland.

"Medium lift helicopters are becoming increasingly more important in a volatile
military environment for rapid insertion and extraction, " an Army spokesman
told the Daily Express last night.

OPINION: PAGE 12 STILL HAUNTED BY SEPT 11: PAGE 22

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           August 29, 2002, Thursday

ANNIVERSARY TERROR ATTACKS EXPECTED ON WESTERNERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 152 words


INTELLIGENCE agencies have received "credible reports" that terrorists are
planning to attack western targets in Pakistan on or around the first
anniversary of September 11.

Major General Salahuddin Satti, chief of the paramilitary Pakistani Rangers,
said the terrorists' potential targets include both foreign and domestic
organisations throughout the country, including foreign missions, police and
military installations and churches.

"We have credible reports that terrorists may strike again to convey their
message on and around September 11," Satti said in Karachi.

"Our intelligence and security agencies are on alert."

Satti said that for security reasons he would not reveal specific information
that intelligence agencies had received about possible targets.

"Comprehensive security plans have been chalked out ... and we are prepared to
check any sabotage attempt," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                August 29, 2002

Terrorist cell 'planned US attack in 1999'

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 141 words


GERMAN authorities have evidence the Hamburg al Qaeda cell that included three
of the 11 September suicide pilots were planning an attack on the World Trade
Center as early as April or May, 2000, the country's federal prosecutor said
today.

Announcing charges in Karlsruhe against Mounir El Motassadeq, the only person
apprehended in Germany in connection with the attacks, federal prosecutor Kay
Nehm said the Hamburg hijackers were planning an attack on the US by October,
1999 and six months later had decided on their target.

The prosecutor said hijacker Marwan Al-Shehhi told a librarian the World Trade
Center would be attacked and thousands would die.

El Motassadeq, a 28-year-old Moroccan arrested in Hamburg two months after the
attacks, was charged yesterday with more than 3,000 counts of accessory to
murder.


LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           August 29, 2002, Thursday

BLAIR FACES GROWING IRAQ ATTACK UNEASE;
 WAR ON TERROR: PRIME MINISTER RETURNS FROM HOLIDAY TO FIND MAJORITY OF VOTERS
OPPOSE US-LED MILITARY ACTION TO TOPPLE SADDAM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 365 words


TONY BLAIR was returning from holiday last night to face growing domestic and
international unease over the possibility of war with Iraq.

The Prime Minister and President George Bush are "100pc agreed" on the need to
deal with Iraqi weapons of mass destruction, Downing Street insisted.

But speaking ahead of his return, a spokesman made it clear the PM believes
Saddam Hussein could "resolve this issue" by readmitting weapons inspectors.

US figures have insisted that that would not be enough to avoid the need to
remove the Iraqi dictator.

At home, 52pc of voters are against US policy, with strong opposition among
Labour supporters, according to a poll published yesterday.

Abroad, Saudi Arabia issued a fresh warning to the US despite President George
Bush's latest attempts to convince America's traditional ally.

And a senior Washington figure said one of Mr Blair's advisers complained that
Mr Bush was giving nothing back to Britain in return for support.

Former Foreign Office minister Tony Lloyd warned the rhetoric of US
administration "hawks" was mak-ing it difficult to avoid conflict. "The really
worrying thing ... is that the more the hawks in the administration talk up
military action the more difficult, frankly, it will be for the American
President to get off the war machine," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. It
was "almost inevitable" that the issue of Iraq would be taken up at this
autumn's Labour Party conference, he said.

"We've had so little certainty from Washington and, frankly, from the British
Government.

"I think throughout the country people now will want answers, par-ticularly if
this intense rhetoric from Washington continues."

His warning came after US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld on Tuesday compared
the White House's policy of seeking the removal of the Iraqi leader with Winston
Churchill's warnings about Adolf Hitler before World War II.

Mr Rumsfeld told 3,000 US Marines at Camp Pendleton, near San Diego, "It was not
until each country got attacked that they said Maybe Winston Churchill was
right. Maybe that lone voice expressing concern about what was happening was
right'."

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 30, 2002, Friday

FOUR MUSLIMS ACCUSED OF SUPPORTING TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 332 words


Four alleged Muslim militants have been charged in Detroit with being part of 'a
sleeper combat cell' that sought to support terrorism.

Meanwhile, a Seattle man linked to an alleged al-Qaida plot to train US recruits
was also indicted. And a sixth man is being sought.

The four Detroit suspects are charged with providing weapons and support to
groups planning 'violent attacks against persons and buildings within the
territory of Jordan, Turkey and the United States'.

US agents searching a flat they used, found a video-tape of US landmarks like
Disneyland, in California, and the MGM Grand Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas. They
also found a cache of false documents, and a day-planner, detailing planned
attacks in Turkey and Jordan.

The suspects are all believed to be immigrants of Arabic descent. The indictment
said they have ties to a fundamentalist Islamic religious group called
Salafiyya.

There was no direct link drawn to the indictment between the suspects and al
-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden. Three of the suspects, Karim Koubriti and Ahmed
Hannan from Morocco, and Algerian-born Farouk Ali-Haimoud, were arrested in
Detroit shortly after the September 11 attacks.

A fourth suspect, Abdella, is still at large. He is believed to be based in
Chicago and is accused of giving orders to the others.

He is thought to be an expert on airport security and false IDs.

In addition to Abdella, the other man named in the Detroit indictment is Youssef
Hmimssa.

Hmimssa was named at the top of the indictment, where the charges were listed,
but was not mentioned further. Legal experts said it probably signalled that the
details of his indictment are sealed by a court. All of the men except Abdella
are in custody.

US agents believe they have uncovered an effort by US residents - many of whom
are citizens or legal residents - to use credit card thefts, illegal cigarette
sales, diverted charitable funds and smuggled cash to fund terror groups.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           August 31, 2002, Saturday

COURT HEARS OF CHILD'S DOG ATTACK TERROR;
 FOUR-YEAR-OLD NEEDED HOSPITAL TREATMENT

BYLINE: Lucy Wilson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 296 words


A DOG escaped from its owner's garden, knocked a four-year-old child to the
ground and attacked her, Coventry magistrates were told this week.

Wesley Beetlestone, aged 25, of Upper Eastern Green Lane, Eastern Green,
Coventry, pleaded guilty to being in charge of a dog which was out of control on
June 1 this year.

He was given a one-year conditional discharge, ordered to pay pounds 150 to the
child and pounds 55 towards prosecution costs.

His dog, an eight-month old Japanese Akita, was put down by a vet last week.

Roger Smallman, prosecuting, told the court how a four-year-old child was
playing in Eastern Green Lane with her sister when the dog approached.

He said: "It was about 3pm when a neighbour became aware that her neighbour's
dog was in the area.

"The child was trying to get away from the dog and was obviously frightened. The
dog was following close behind. The next thing the neighbour saw was the child
in a corner lying down and the dog on top of her and biting her.

"The neighbour took hold of the dog's chain and pulled the dog off the child.
Then Mr Beetlestone's partner came out and took possession of the dog.

"The child was taken to Coventry and Warwickshire Hospital where her wounds were
dressed and she was given treatment."

Mr Beetlestone said in his defence that the dog had never bitten anyone before
even though out on walks children regularly approached and asked if they could
stroke the animal.

He said: "The back gate is normally shut and bolted. I wasn't there at the time
and I don't know how he got out. Somebody must have left the gate open."

Mr Beetlestone added that the dog had originally been owned by relatives but
they hadn't had time to look after it properly so he had taken it on.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                August 31, 2002

Weekend: THE H-WORD: Books on Islam, 'chemtrails' from planes, a terrorist
attack, a toxin, a virus, anthrax: what really lies behind the mystery rash that
has afflicted schoolgirls across the US since September 11? Doctors are itching
to put the finger on the most likely diagnosis, but dare they whisper the word
'hysteria' to a nation seeking a culprit?

BYLINE: Margaret Talbot

SECTION: Guardian Weekend Pages, Pg. 30

LENGTH: 4197 words


Last autumn, something peculiar began to happen at more than two dozen
elementary and middle schools scattered across the US. Suddenly, groups of
children started breaking out in itchy red rashes that seemed to fade away when
the children went home and to re-emerge when they returned to school.
Frustratingly for the federal, state and county health officials who were
working to explain this ailment, it did not conform to any known patterns of
viral or bacterial illness. The children had no other symptoms: no fever, no
runny noses, no headaches or joint pain or respiratory complaints. Moreover,
they were not passing their rashes on to parents or siblings outside school.
Large groups (a dozen here, several dozen there) came down with it
simultaneously, or within hours, rather than over the course of days or weeks,
as you would expect with person-to-person transmission of a contagious illness.
In many of the outbreaks, girls accounted for a majority of the cases. Since
neither germs nor the other likely culprit, environmental poisons, make a habit
of discriminating by sex, this was puzzling.

Blood tests on a number of the children pretty much ruled out the possibility of
one initial suspect: the virus that causes a mild rash known as fifth disease.
Environmental investigations of the affected schools failed to turn up evidence
of chemical or biological hazards. The media would soon dub the outbreak the
"mystery rash" in reports that, inevitably, had epidemiologists "scratching
their heads". This year, of all years, a mysterious rash affecting
schoolchildren was bound to generate a good deal of attention and anxiety.
Parents didn't always say the words "bioterrorism" or "anthrax" when they called
their doctors and principals to ask if they should keep their children out of
school, but it was often the subtext of the conversation.

In another year, the rashes might not have fuelled such florid, conspiratorial
discussion on the internet - it was "chemtrails" from aeroplanes; it was books
on Islam donated to schools by questionable Saudis; it was a terrorist attack
cover-up - or have engaged overworked state health officials for months. The
rash outbreaks might not have triggered an investigation by the Centres for
Disease Control and Prevention, or brought 1,000 parents to a school meeting in
Quakertown, Pennsylvania. But this year was different. This year, rashes - or
any unexplained physical symptom - made people nervous in a way they did not
before September 11.

Or maybe it was the other way around. Maybe it was nervousness that helped
create the unexplained symptoms. And maybe children were more likely to
somaticise a lingering, inchoate anxiety about September 11. Studies completed
on New York schoolchildren this spring, for example, showed that months after
the attacks many still suffered from recurrent nightmares and had trouble
sleeping. And maybe this latent disquiet sometimes manifested itself in a
curious, corporeal way - in the form of an itch.

The rash outbreaks started in Indiana on October 4 last year, the same day
Associated Press first reported that a Florida man had come down with anthrax.
It was not then clear how extensive the anthrax campaign would be, or who was
behind it (we still don't know), or where it might turn up next. Throughout the
autumn, towns across the country were dealing with false alarms, white-powder
hoaxes, sudden evacuations of buildings.

The school rash turned up next in northern Virginia, at Marsteller Middle
School, where the building was scoured and no explanation found. Children began
refusing to go to school. One parent, a postal worker, explained her daughter's
decision to a Washington Post reporter: "This is not happening at a good time.
They're afraid there's something behind it that no one knows about."

During the winter holidays, the school rashes abated, but in January and
February they turned up again, notably in Pennsylvania and Oregon. In late
February, James Scanlon, superintendent of schools in Quakertown, where 238
cases had been reported in nine schools, wrote to parents explaining that all
environmental testing had been negative and pleading for help in "bringing
normalcy back to our community". But local news coverage of the "mystery rash"
only intensified, and by early April it had turned up in two Massachusetts
towns, South Dennis and Billerica. (The latter happens to be the HQ of Bruker
Daltronics, a company that manufactures detection devices for agents of
biological warfare.)

In Oregon, it started on February 4 at the Abraham Lincoln Elementary School in
Medford, near the California border. The principal, Bob Hartwig, noticed a group
of girls - perhaps eight or 10 from the same classroom - reporting to the
office, their faces, necks and arms looking flushed, and all of them seeming
"pretty miserable". Over the next few days, more children showed up, from
various classes and from opposite sides of the building, with rashes that looked
quite different. Some were like clusters of tiny bumps or patches of dry skin;
others looked more like sunburn. Yvonne H Chilcoat, a public health nurse who
coordinated the county's investigation, noted that people who interviewed the
children would "observe the rash sort of evolve before their eyes". "It would be
there, and then you could actually see it fade away or reappear somewhere else,"
she says. That was a signal thing about it - that and the fact that of the 67
children and 11 adults affected by it at Lincoln, 62 were female.

Hartwig himself felt sufficiently concerned to call in an outside environmental
scientist. Investigators considered dozens of possible culprits - cleaning
supplies, furnace filters, fibreglass particles in the air, pesticides sprayed
in the local orchards, even supplies brought from home for a puppet-making
project - but ruled out all of them. Some parents wondered whether the school
ought to be closed down. "I kept thinking about the Aids virus," Hartwig says,
"how it started here with one guy flying in from Africa, how nobody knew what it
was at first." His worry was mixed with bafflement. "I kept asking myself: Why
us? Why Medford? Why girls? At one point, we were 100% girls." Why, he wondered,
did the rash seem to go away so quickly when kids forgot to scratch, or stopped
talking about it, or applied calamine lotion? It occurred to him at times that
he might be dealing with something psychogenic.

Hartwig had never forgotten an incident he had dealt with, as the principal at
another elementary school, in 1984. Back then, a teacher had begun complaining
that the groundskeeper was spraying a pesticide outside her classroom window and
that it was poisoning her and the children. She became ill, and within an hour
many of the kids in the room were nauseated; a few were vomiting. "But they
weren't spraying anything toxic outside," Hartwig says. "All I had to do was
tell the kids in that classroom that nothing was going on, and it stopped."

A psychogenic explanation crossed Chilcoat's mind, too. She exchanged email with
a public health nurse from St Catherines in Ontario who had helped investigate a
rash outbreak in an elementary school there in March last year and had concluded
that it was probably "hysterical". But while the Ontario nurse, Heather Hague,
confirmed that hysteria "was one of our hypotheses", it was not one, she says,
that she ever shared with the affected children or their parents. "You really
don't like to cast that shadow."

Two weeks later, a similar rash had popped up at a very different school, an
hour west of Portland. While Hartwig's school is in a tidy five-year-old
building, the Chapman Grade School in Sheridan is 60 years old, a low-slung
building with scuffed linoleum floors and a tired-out look. Chapman's outbreak
started on February 21. There, too, the rash came on abruptly and struck mainly
girls. Lindsey Anderson, a fourth grader, was heading for lunch when she spotted
a knot of people in the front office. Among them were three sixth-grade girls,
including her sister, Briana, who had suddenly come down with an itchy rash. In
the cafeteria, Lindsey "told everybody about it. And we told them not to
scratch, because that made it worse. At first they'd say, 'Eeeww, I don't want
it.' And then after they heard more about it, they'd start scratching." Pretty
soon, Lindsey had a rash, too, and so did "a bunch of other kids".

Staff quarantined the children in the library where, principal Tim Graham
recalls, "Teachers who couldn't stop scratching - it's very hard when you see
all these kids scratching - kept telling kids to stop scratching. It was crazy."
By the end of the day, 50 students were complaining of some kind of rash. "News
trucks were here and the kids started following them around, trying to get on
TV. And I started getting conspiracy calls - people thinking it was a government
cover-up. Something to do with September 11."

Lindsey remembers thinking about anthrax. "It was scary," she says, "because
maybe the anthrax got into our school and somebody touched it, and then if you
touched that person you'd get it." Lindsey and her friends talked over other
creepy possibilities. They thought they'd noticed more of the local tree frogs,
who sometimes got in through the drains, around the Chapman building that first
day. That was weird, wasn't it? Michelle Anderson, mother of Lindsey and Briana,
was eating lunch at the Spirit Mountain Casino, where she works, when she first
heard there had been a rash outbreak at the school. She rushed over to pick up
the girls, thinking first of meningitis, then of bioterrorism. She took the
girls to the family doctor, who said it was probably a histamine reaction of
some sort that would resolve itself, and not to worry. But Anderson was still
puzzled by her observation that the rash came out only at school and went away
"10 minutes after the girls left school".

On the following Monday, as bad luck would have it, the nearby federal prison
was dealing with an anthrax scare. When paramedics who had rushed to the prison
were called to the school shortly after to look at a new crop of itchy children,
they promptly recommended that Chapman be closed. Chaos ensued, as 310 children
had to be moved out in a hurry and their parents quickly located, all amid a
tangle of buses and emergency vehicles. Lindsey, who had been on the local news
early in the outbreak, thought some of the kids getting the rash in this second
phase "were jealous". Lindsey and her friends thought it was plausible that
anxiety and sympathy could account for some of the rash cases. "It's like when
somebody next to you is scratching their head and you get itchy," one girl said.

Chapman was closed for a week of cleaning. When the school reopened the
following Monday, some students were still complaining of a rash, an itch or
both, but the symptoms subsided over the next two days. A few weeks later, I sat
in the dimly lit cafeteria with Desiree Blakley, an eighth grader at Chapman,
and Nick Mull, who is in the fifth grade. "When I first noticed it was during
lunch," recalled Nick, one of the few boys to get the rash. "My friend Amanda,
she started getting it, and she showed me hers. It was itching her real bad. And
then I was messing around with her and touching it and stuff, and I started
messing with my neck, then my arms and legs started itching, and I got it. It
really burned."

"It was on the news, and there was no school the next day. That was the best
part," said Desiree. "We heard about the rash. We heard how it started somewhere
else - Georgia, maybe?"

Nick interjected: "They say it isn't contagious, but then how did we all get it
at once?"

"Ooh," Desiree said, "just talking about it makes me itchy. I'm itching now."

Not long after visiting Chapman, I spoke with Leslie Davidoff, a resident in
preventive medicine who had interviewed and examined 15 kids at Chapman on
behalf of the Oregon health department. All 15 had identified themselves or been
identified by teachers as having the rash. But Davidoff did not see anything
unusual or even similar in these conditions. She saw "early acne, dry skin and
quite a few insect bites". Still, Davidoff dutifully administered a lengthy
questionnaire, including a number of queries about glitter gel, paste-on
tattoos, skin preparations and the like. (In a vain attempt to find a common
agent that might explain why far more girls than boys got the rash, Davidoff had
brainstormed with her Britney Spears-loving niece to come up with all the
products girls might use on their skin.) "One child told me she and her friends
would point at girls they didn't like and say: 'You've got it! You've got it!'
So that girl would essentially get quarantined. One kid told me he didn't even
know he had the rash until a teacher told him he had it." Davidoff pauses. "It
was," she says, "a very interesting experience."

In the months since the rashes were first reported, very few of the outbreaks
have been conclusively explained. By mid-May, Mississippi's small outbreak was
the only one that could be attributed to parvovirus, which causes fifth disease.
("We got lucky," says Mary Currier, a state epidemiologist. "We had positive
blood results for something.") One Pennsylvania dermatologist suspects "a new
virus", probably a mutation of the parvovirus, though he can't explain the
predominance of female cases or the paucity of secondary cases in families of
the affected children. Many of the rashes that wound up being reported to the
Centres for Disease Control were almost certainly the kinds of everyday skin
conditions - poison ivy, eczema, incipient acne, dry skin irritated by
overheated classrooms, atopic dermatitis - that at another time would never have
aroused concern. Granted, there could yet be an environmental cause found,
though it is unlikely to be the same cause in all the schools. No one has been
able to establish links between the affected schools in any one state, let alone
across states.

The possibility health officials try their best to dance around is that the
"mystery rash" may have been psychogenic. What may have caused at least some of
the cases, in other words, was not a toxin or a virus, but anxiety. The skin is
notoriously reactive to stress - many people flush when nervous; hives and
eczema are triggered or worsened by tension. Sometimes, says Timothy Jones, a
public health doctor with the state of Tennessee, we talk about "the itch that
causes the rash, rather than the other way around". There are even extreme
itch-scratch syndromes in which sufferers fall into a relentless cycle of
compulsively scratching some part of their body - frequently the back of the
neck - which only makes it itch all the more.

"I think kids hearing all the news stories about rash illness and bioterrorism
could get something like this outbreak started," says Alfred DeMaria, an
epidemiologist with the state of Massachusetts. "Especially in middle school,
where kids are impressionable and more conformist in the sense that they have to
have the thing the next kid has. Maybe a few had a viral illness of some sort,
but with most it was sympathetic." Besides, DeMaria adds - and nearly every
other health official I spoke to agreed - itching, like yawning, is a very
suggestible symptom. Karen Southwick, the state epidemiologist who coordinated
the investigation in Oregon, said, "We feel there is a very substantial
sympathetic component to these rashes. We're still trying to see if there is
some other trigger, but so far we have not been successful."

Terms such as psychogenic illness and hysteria have a fraught history. It was
the ancient Greeks who first identified hysteria as the manifestation of
physical symptoms with no discernible organic cause. The word "hysteria" comes
from the Greek for uterus: at the time, it was thought the womb could wander
restless through the female body, wreaking havoc. In the late 19th century, the
heyday of the hysteria diagnosis, it was seen as the female complaint par
excellence because women were assumed to be the helpless victims of their
reproductive systems. The French neurologist Jean Martin Charcot, and later
Freud, defined hysteria as a nervous-system disorder unleashed by emotional
trauma. The feminist critique of hysteria - a huge academic literature exists on
the subject - has led to a good deal of healthy scepticism about the diagnosis.
But it has also made many people suspicious of the notion that the mind can
generate symptoms only the body manifests.

Part of the problem with making a diagnosis of mass hysteria is that it carries
such a freight of pejorative associations. Ever since the Salem witch trials, it
has been seen as the kind of phenomenon that occurs only in "backward"
communities or among religious zealots or the delusional. More recently, a fear
of environmental contamination has become the most common source of psychogenic
illness, but this complicates matters still further since, after all, there is
such a thing as a real environmental hazard. None of this should blind us to the
fact that outbreaks of mass psychogenic illness do occur - and not all that
rarely. Between 1973 and 1993, medical journals carried 70 reports of mass
hysteria; most took place in self-contained communities, such as schools,
barracks and factories. Sixty per cent of the incidents of epidemic hysteria
written up in English-language journals this century occurred in schools.

Mass psychogenic illness, or epidemic hysteria, is usually defined as a set of
unexplained symptoms affecting two or more people; in most cases, victims share
a theory of some sort about what is causing their distress. Often, somebody
smells something funny, which may or may not be a chemical, but which in any
case does not account for the subsequent symptoms. Notably, the mechanism of
contagion is quite different from what one would expect in, say, a viral
illness: symptoms spread by "line of sight", which is to say that people get
sick as they see other people getting sick. Some element of unusual
psychological stress is often at play - which may account for why several of the
documented cases in schools took place while students were preparing for tests,
in an anxious wartime atmosphere, or weeks or months after an actual but
resolved environmental event, such as a natural gas leak.

Adolescents and pre-adolescents are particularly susceptible. And girls are more
likely than boys to fall ill. That last finding, striking and consistent as it
is, might seem like an artefact of misogynist bias. "I've been hissed at medical
conventions when I say there's a preponderance of women in these outbreaks,"
says Gary Small, a psychiatrist at the University of California in Los Angeles.
"But women are more likely to talk to each other about symptoms and how they're
feeling. They're more social and that may facilitate the spread among friends."
Girls' heightened susceptibility to mass psychogenic illness need not be seen,
in other words, as a function of a more "hysterical" nature, but of their
propensity to talk among themselves about their health.

Most cases of epidemic hysteria are characterised by symptoms such as nausea,
abdominal pain, dizziness and lightheadedness, but there are also several
documented cases of rash as a psychogenic symptom. In 1982, for example, 57
children at a West Virginia elementary school experienced an outbreak of sudden
itching. The rash showed up at 9.15am, when two fourth graders complained of
itchiness; by noon, 32 students had the same symptoms. Frequently, outbreaks of
psychogenic illness begin with one or more people falling ill from actual
organic causes, setting in motion a fast-rolling wave of sympathy. However, the
diagnosis remains a deeply vexed and often disputed one - and no one wants to be
too hasty to label an illness psychogenic if doing so would foreclose the search
for a real environmental danger.

In theory, you might think a psychogenic diagnosis for a mild, transient illness
would come as a relief to those concerned, lifting the spectre of mystery
viruses and hidden toxins. But in practice such diagnoses are often taken as an
insult and met with charges of a cover-up. In March 2000, Robert J Settipane, an
allergist affiliated with Brown University in Rhode Island, examined a number of
children who had broken out in a rash at an elementary school in East Greenwich.
Settipane became convinced the rash was psychogenic - a conclusion not endorsed
by the local health department - and related to stress among the mostly fourth
grade girls it affected, who had been struggling with a difficult maths book and
had tests coming up.

"They kept moving the classes to other locations, other buildings, eventually to
a local bookstore, trying to stay one step ahead of this rash - and it kept
following them," Settipane recalls. But when he announced his conclusions, "the
parents were irate. How could I say such a horrible thing? How could I say their
children were hysterical? This was an affluent school, a very involved group of
parents. They could not accept this. I was persona non grata."

Some parents thought Settipane had overlooked an environmental explanation at
the school; others thought their children were allergic to the maths textbooks.
Settipane was sceptical, but other allergists in his office dutifully tore up
book pages, mixed them with water and concocted a slurry in order to do skin
tests with them. (The tests were negative.) Settipane believed it was best to be
blunt. "You can only stop these things by being honest," he says. "I could get
caught up in this kind of thing, too. We all could. It's a very powerful thing,
and it needs to be respected and understood. And health officials shouldn't be
so scared to call a spade a spade."

Back in Sheridan, Oregon, there has been no such tumult - for the hysteria
diagnosis has never been publicly voiced there. By now the rash is almost, but
not quite, receding into the murky realm of Weird Things That Happened Once (And
Most People Gave Up Trying to Explain). A report by a private environmental
company showed mould at the school, which some people now think might have
caused the rash. But it is not clear that the mould levels are unusually high,
and mould allergies generally cause respiratory symptoms, not rashes. Still,
some parents think it might be time to retire the old school building and erect
a new one. The matter will come up for a vote on the local ballot in November.

Other parents remain worried and suspicious. Michelle Anderson, Lindsey and
Briana's mother, wonders, "Is it safe to send my girls back to Chapman (for the
new academic year)? You hear a lot about medical stuff that doesn't affect you
till maybe six months or a year down the road. Is that going to be what happens
with this? Even though the rash hasn't come back, we're waiting to see if it
does."

On an internet forum about so-called aeroplane chemtrails, "Anonymous" from
Oregon said he'd heard speculation that the rashes might be psychosomatic and
resented it. In his view, it implied the children were "messed up
psychologically".

Suggesting to people that their physical symptoms might have originated partly
in the mind is not, of course, the same as saying they are crazy or malingering.
Mass psychogenic illness produces real, not sham, physiological effects.
However, the reluctance of public health officials to make such a diagnosis may
well leave the American public ill-equipped for dealing with future outbreaks of
psychogenic illness at a time - of vague terrorist threats and emergent
infectious diseases - when it would be entirely reasonable to expect them. It's
an uncomfortable paradox: suggesting that symptoms might be psychogenic can help
stop them, but it often does so at the risk of alienating or even embittering
people.

Finessing the problem, acting on a hunch without quite making it explicit, may
provide an answer. In South Dennis, Massachusetts, when several dozen, mostly
female, students at Nathaniel H Wixon Middle School came down with a rash over
10 days in late March, the school was closed and sanitised. Environmental
investigators carried out every kind of test and came up with nothing. So Tony
Pierantozzi, the school superintendent, tried a different tack: "We began a
triage system. Instead of automatically sending home any kid with the rash, we
tried to keep them there. If we could identify a rash that was severe or covered
a large part of the body, the school nurse sent them home. If it was only a
small amount of rash or just scratch marks, we recommended the kids stay. We
sent those kids into their own common area and kept them away from everybody
else. At the same time, we stopped treating the rashes with calamine lotion,
which sort of marked the kids, and started treating them with ice, which was
just as effective. And at that point, the incidence and spread of the rash
stopped almost immediately."

Margaret Talbot is a fellow at the New America Foundation.


LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           August 31, 2002, Saturday

TV: WORLD LEADERS' TAKE ON TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 105 words


SEPTEMBER 11, 2001, is a date that will be etched in people's minds forever.

This first in a two-part documentary looks at how the world has changed since
that tragic day when terrorist attacked the heart of the western world.

World leaders air their views and provide a unique insight into their response
to the events.

They describe how they reversed alliances, abandoned commitments, overruled
colleagues, begged favours - and, in some cases, risked being overthrown.

Contributions come from Vladimir Putin, Pervez Musharraf, Tony Blair, Gerhard
Schroeder and Colin Powell.

Avenging Terror (C4, 8pm)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAGEDY: New Yorkers run in terror from the collapsing World Trade;
Centre

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 1, 2002, Sunday

NEW YORK STORIES;
 THE CITY IS ENJOYING ITS MISERY A BIT TOO MUCH, ARGUES DAVID USBORNE. AS THE
ANNIVERSARY OF THE TERROR ATTACKS DRAWS NEAR IT'S NOT JUST THE SOUVENIR SELLERS
(TWIN TOWERS THIMBLE, ANYONE?) WHO CAN BE ACCUSED OF CASHING IN.

BYLINE: David Usborne.

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 671 words


Someone should trademark a new T-shirt logo for New York. Instead of the heart
symbol in "I NY", which has been furiously recycled since last September, it
should be a yellow smiley face with crumpled grin and tear on its cheek. As in,
"I Feel Sorry for New York".

Surely, this would be a popular item, along with all the other tacky tchotchkes
(Jewish slang for knick-knacks) that are being rammed down America's sadly
willing throat as the first anniversary of the terror attacks comes near. One
man who would surely buy our sorry-for-you face is Michael Bloomberg.

Mayor Mike might as well fly it on a flag outside City Hall. Though he would
surely deny it, he has been doing a fine job of exploiting the sympathy factor
in the run-up to 11 September. Exploiting may be too harsh a word in these
times, but it may not be totally inappropriate.

You may have heard, for instance, that Mr Bloomberg, with some help from Harvey
Weinstein, the head of the Miramax film studio, is pressuring the Academy of
Motion Picture Arts and Scientists to allow New York to co- host next year's
Oscars ceremony. (A case of T-shirts for its voting members should be shipped at
once.) And it is surely handy that the first anniversary of that awful Tuesday
happens to coincide tidily with deliberations inside the American Olympic
committee on which US city should be put forward to bid for the 2012 summer
Olympics.

Score one for Mr Bloomberg already on the Olympic front. Last week, the
committee narrowed the field down from four contenders to just two. The winners
of the first round were San Francisco and, yes, New York. (Leaving Orlando and
Houston out in the cold.) Honestly, how could the committee members - all good
American patriots - not select New York?

San Francisco must be rightly worried that the same dynamic will play when the
US finalist is chosen in early November. Then New York will be up against Rome,
Paris, Moscow and Rio de Janeiro. The final winner will not be chosen until
2005, when the tears for New York may have dried. Although even Rome's Mayor
seems to be rooting for the bruised Apple.

"If the Games go to New York, it means the athletes, the spectators, the whole
world, we can all be together," said Walter Veltroni. "This will show that the
terrorists have been defeated."

So what else might New York lay claim to? The body of Elvis could be moved here
and buried in Central Park. That would perk up lagging tourist numbers. (Too bad
for Memphis, though.) Congress could be transplanted to Manhattan. There are
already talks about a session of Congress here in November, after all. And Nasa
might consider doing just one launch from Liberty Island.

F F F

It took only days after last September's attacks for the street hawkers to
unfold their tables with unsophisticated mementoes of the missing Twin Towers.
Mostly, it was just photographs of before and after. Now that Ground Zero, which
nowadays looks little different from any very large construction site, is
officially the most popular tourist destination in the city, the trade is more
furious and sophisticated. If you can call snow globes of the towers
sophisticated. The white flakes look more like falling ash, of course.

That is some of the trash that is out there. Online and through the post, you
can explore a whole bazaar of 11 September trinkets of various degrees of
tastelessness. Thimbles with little pictures of the towers glued on, anyone? One
online company that normally specialises in "fine antiques and collectibles" is
offering fake "$ 2001" dollar bills, with a picture of Our George on one side.

These people, of course, are cashing in on tragedy. But where do you draw the
line? The New York Times has just published a coffee-table book on 11 September
called A Nation Challenged, and very beautiful it is too. Is that cashing in?
Every magazine is busy producing commemorative issues. And what about this
newspaper when we deluge you with anniversary stories? Starting now.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                               September 1, 2002

Nuclear safety report 'covered up' by officials;Top nuclear engineer insists
public has right to know about the vulnerability of Britain's power stations to
terrorist attack

BYLINE: By Stephen Naysmith Science Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 837 words


A NUCLEAR consultant who wrote an analysis of the vulnerability of Britain's
nuclear power industry to terrorist attack is demanding an inquiry after his
findings were secretly circulated to government departments and branded a
security risk.

The paper, The Implications Of September 11th For The Nuclear Industry, by
independent nuclear engineer and consultant Dr John Large, was rejected for
publication by a journal of the Institute of Mechanical Engineering (IMechE).

But the letter that informed him of the decision revealed that his paper had
been forwarded, without his approval, to the Office for Civil Nuclear Security
(OCNS). Large's subsequent inquiries and a request for files under the Data
Protection Act revealed that the study had also been passed to the chief
inspector at the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate (NII).

The eight-page document had become the subject of more than 130 pages of e
-mails and other correspondence. Among them were memos stating that the journal
had been advised by the NII not to publish the paper but instead to explain to
Large that it was "out of scope".

One e-mail, from an NII official, said: "As a matter of policy we wouldn't want
to comment on these matters and we should discourage others from doing so in
public."

Along with e-mails and other correspondence about the submission, Large found
memos that were critical of him, others that suggested publishing the study
might be harmful to national security, and notes that indicated he was to be
kept in the dark about the scrutiny his paper was receiving.

The president of IMechE, John McDougall, has now launched an independent inquiry
into the row, while Large has threatened to resign from the professional body
over the affair.

A highly experienced nuclear scientist, who oversaw the raising of the Russian
submarine Kursk from the Barents Sea, Large is a fellow of the institute and has
been a member for nearly 40 years.

As is normal practice for scientific journals, Large's paper had been sent by
IMechE to a small number of referees to give their opinion about its suitability
for publication.

On this occasion at least one referee also sent the paper to OCNS and other
security experts, apparently concerned it might be useful to terrorists.

Large said all the facts in his paper were already in the public domain, and
could be of no assistance to terrorists. He added: ''I toned down my paper for
publication to make sure it could not be of use to terrorists. The issues I
raised are well-known by the nuclear industry and the government and it was time
the public knew the generalities as well."

The paper revealed the risks of a terrorist strike at several installations in
Scotland, including Dounreay in Caithness, the nearby Vulcan submarine reactor
testing facility and the Hunterston, Torness and Chapelcross power stations.

"The risk is not to their reactors, which are well-protected, but their fuel
stores which are largely unprotected and are virtually in tin sheds," said
Large.

He said it was disturbing that the institute was collaborating with government
departments to silence debate on a major issue of concern.

"I hadn't had great expectations of my paper being published," he said, "but
when I received the file it was clear that other factors were involved.

"These amateurish spooks from the NII, Department of Trade and Industry and OCNS
should sit down and take heed of what people with experience in this field say,
rather than jumping on people who make any comment.

"If our nuclear industry is vulnerable to terrorist attack then we, the
engineers who created the nuclear plants, should first admit to it, then
thoroughly and openly discuss it to identify the weaknesses and then set about
fulfilling our duty so that these weaknesses might be remedied and not
replicated in future designs."

Large is also furious that the institute's staff colluded to conceal the
attention his analysis had received.

One hand-written memo in the file records actions to be taken following a
meeting, including: "To let everyone know that the author is not to be made
aware of investigation".

A further e-mail from a senior editor at the journal's publishing house
clarified the position: "This means to say that, should the author, J H Large
contact us about his paper for any reason he should be told the paper is under
review and nothing more."

In a letter of formal complaint to IMechE, Large wrote: "I am very disturbed
that the institution would see fit to instruct its staff to participate in what
was clearly a measure to deceive."

A spokeswoman for IMechE said Large's comment was now under internal
investigation and she could not comment further. A spokesman for the DTI
confirmed that OCNS had received the paper from IMechE and said it had now "been
destroyed".

He added: "There is no suggestion that the DTI in any way puts pressure on any
individuals or organisations to send us reports of this nature."

LOAD-DATE: September 02, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Dr John Large is furious that he is considered a security risk after
his paper on nuclear safety was read by civil servants Photograph: Paul Hackett

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 2, 2002, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: POLL SURPRISE: IT'S NOT OUR FIGHT;
 -BUSH THIRD BIGGEST THREAT TO WORLD PEACE EXCLUSIVE -71% AGAINST A UK ROLE IN
IRAQ INVASION -26% HAVE LOWER OPINION OF BLAIR -31% THINK NEW TERROR ATTACK
LIKELY

BYLINE: David Seymour And Oonagh Blackman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 781 words


A MASSIVE 71 per cent of Britons are against the nation joining a war on Iraq
without UN approval, a Mirror poll reveals today.

The figure is almost 20 per cent higher than a week ago - when 52 per cent said
Britain should NOT support US policy on Iraq - showing how swiftly the public is
turning against involvement.

More than half the people in this country also believe President Bush to be the
third biggest threat to world peace after Osama bin Laden and Iraqi tyrant
Saddam Hussein.

The poll findings will make unpleasant reading for Tony Blair as he prepares to
defy public hostility and argue for Britain joining a US attack on Iraq.

Last night, amid growing calls for the Premier to end his talk of war, senior
Labour MP and Father of the House Tam Dalyell declared: "This is a spectacular
comment on the British people's feelings.

"The more they think and learn about the prospect of war with Iraq, the less
they like it. Blair is being damaged. If you ask me if I think his own position
is in jeopardy, I'd say yes."

The survey was carried out for the Daily Mirror and GMTV by ICM Research to mark
the forthcoming anniversary of the murderous September 11 skyjack attacks on the
World Trade Center and Pentagon.

Only 12 per cent thought an invasion of Iraq was justified under any
circumstances. Forty one per cent thought it would be acceptable with UN
agreement while 35 per cent said it could not be justified at all.

Worryingly for Mr Blair almost two out of five people believe he is Mr Bush's
poodle, while 26 per cent have a lower opinion of him since September 11.

As the Premier's stock falls, there are increasingly gloomy fears for the
future.

Thirty one per cent believe another major terrorist attack is "very likely" and
seven per cent say an attack is "inevitable".

More than 60 per cent believe war is more likely since September 11, almost one
in 10 say there will be nuclear war in the next five years and fewer than half
think nuclear weapons will never be used.

The pessimistic outlook is partly caused by what is seen as a failed war on
terror.

Only 16 per cent say it has been a success while 31 per cent say it has been a
failure or a big failure.

Britons were split on whether the deaths of innocent civilians in Afghanistan
were justified in the drive to defeat the Taliban and al-Qaeda.

There is a clear difference in the opinions of the sexes in the aftermath of
September 11.

Women feel less safe since then (36 per cent compared to 26 per cent of men),
are more nervous about travelling by air (40 to 24 per cent) and feel closer to
their families (18 to 14 per cent).

But the poll shows the biggest impact of September 11 is not how we live but
what we think about our leaders.

In the first weeks after the outrage there was enormous support for Mr Bush and
Mr Blair, and their determination to wage war on terrorism.

A year later, more and more people are critical of what has been done. They are
deeply unhappy about the chance of being plunged into conflict, possibly without
UN backing, with Iraq.

Mr Blair will fly back to Britain from the Earth Summit in Africa tomorrow to
insist action must be taken against Saddam. He is expected to use his monthly
press briefing to send a strong message of support to Mr Bush. But he will again
refuse to provide any evidence of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction, or to
publish a dossier outlining Iraqi treachery.

Appearing to confirm suspicions that the West is struggling to provide
conclusive proof against Saddam, a senior No 10 source said: "We will not
publish the dossier until we are ready.

"The Premier will tackle head-on the reasons why doing nothing to stop Saddam
Hussein is not an option. He believes there is a strong case for dealing with
the issue of weapons of mass destruction."

Anti-war Labour MP Alice Mahon said: "I'm not surprised by the Mirror poll.
Britain has a unique opportunity to avert this looming war. Tony should say 'no'
now."

Labour MP Diane Abbott, one of about 100 Labour MPs who have backed a Commons
motion against war on Iraq, said: "This shows why Tony Blair should not be so
determined to play Robin to George Bush's Batman."

Lib Dem spokesman Menzies Campbell said: "I'm not surprised by these results.
It's what people are saying and writing to me.

"The British public have seen the debate raging between the hawks and the
realists in the US - and have obviously opted for realism."

Iraq said yesterday the US was spreading lies about weapons of mass destruction
- "without providing any evidence which can be verified" - to soften up world
opinion for a strike.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 3, 2002

SURVIVORS;
EYEWITNESS It was the worst terrorist attack in history, leaving around 3,000
people dead. One year on, this special Mail series re -examines the atrocity
through the eyes of those at its heart

BYLINE: Glenda Cooper

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 3566 words



THIS would have been a good day to be late for work. But Fred Eichler, a
54-year-old insurance broker, was invariably punctual.

On September 11 last year, he arrived at his office on the 83rd floor of the
World Trade Centre's North Tower at 8.15am as usual. It was a bright, sunny
morning.

At 8.40am, he headed for the toilets but bumped into four colleagues and stopped
to have a brief chat. That split-second decision probably saved his life.

He saw the plane through the window. It was heading straight for him but swerved
at the last moment. He was so close he could see straight into the cockpit.

Meanwhile, Janice Brooks, 42, a personal assistant from Brentwood, Essex, was
recovering from her 20-minute jog along the Hudson River. She was sitting at her
desk in the South Tower when she heard an odd, dull thud.

Suddenly, through the office windows, she saw thousands of pieces of paper
swirling through the air like a tickertape parade.

For both Fred and Janice, it was the beginning of a terrifying one hour and 42
minutes that would leave more than 2,800 innocent people dead and the Twin
Towers, symbols of New York, shattered.

Desperate phone calls and emails would punctuate the last minutes of the
thousands who died - attempts to tell relatives they loved them one last time,
to say where the life insurance documents were kept, to cry that they were
trapped and didn't know how to get out.

More than 400 firefighters and rescue workers would be among the dead.

Buried under tons of rubble, many of the bodies would never be found.

Yet, amid the horror, there were the miraculous tales of those who survived -
often because of the most random chances.

They still bear the mental and physical scars today, living with the knowledge
that while they escaped, their friends and colleagues did not.

As the first anniversary of the devastating attack approaches, in a specially
commissioned series, the Mail recounts what it was like to be in the World Trade
Centre during that hour and three-quarters from when the first plane struck to
when the second tower collapsed.

In this darkest time, tales of bravery from both rescue workers and ordinary
people shine through - the determination of one human being to help another,
even at the risk of their own life. It is a tale of human nature at its best
while confronted with human evil at its worst.

THAT Tuesday morning, as Fred Eichler chatted to his colleagues in the
conference room of his company Axcelera, the men found themselves transfixed by
a plane flying to the left of the Empire State Building.

'Somebody said: "Gee, that plane is flying awful low,"' Fred recalls. 'I
remember saying:

"Oh, it must be a plane from Kennedy (a New York airport) that's got into
trouble."' As one, the men rose to their feet. 'It was all in slow motion,' says
Fred. 'I am told that the plane was flying at 600mph towards us, yet it seemed
like an eternity getting to us.

'I suppose it was 15 seconds.

None of us really expected it to hit the building. But it just kept coming and
coming.

'Most of the time it was even - right in line with the window we were staring
out of. Then it was almost on us. I could make out the seams on the wings and
all the American Airline markings.

'I looked right into the cockpit but I couldn't really make out the figures.

They were tiny windows and the sun was shining on them. Maybe I eyeballed
Mohammed Atta, the hijack pilot, but I can't be sure.' The plane was only 200
yards from the building when it suddenly reared up and banked to the right.

Fred could now see the belly of the plane. At 8.46am 'and 26 seconds it hit the
building, and the tip of the wing hit the offices about 70ft above him.

The impact of the Boeing 767 ripped a path across floors 94 to 98, shredding
steel columns, crushing filing-cabinets and computer-laden desks and ripping out
bundles of cables.

The plane's 10,000 gallons of fuel incinerated everything in its path as the
fireball ignited.

Dozens were killed instantly.

In fact, so great was the impact that the plane's landing gear hurtled through
the south side of the building, landing on Rector Street five blocks away.

There was a tremendous explosion and Fred and his colleagues were thrown to the
ground as a shockwave radiated from the top to the bottom of the building and
back. Smoke quickly filled the hallways outside the room in which Fred was
lying.

'No one could comprehend it,' says Fred. 'I still can't.

Right after it hit I staggered to my feet and called 911 (the U.S.

equivalent of 999).

They connected us to the fire department and I told them we were trapped on the
83rd floor.' It would only be much later that Fred would realise how slender was
the margin of his escape.

FROM the 91st floor upwards, it is believed no one got out alive, even though as
many as 1,100 may have survived the initial crash.

Either they would have been burned or smothered by smoke as the inferno swept
through the building, or they would have been forced by the unbearable heat to
jump, or else perished as the tower collapsed.

Like many, Fred reached for the telephone to speak to his wife, daughters and
parents.

He murmured comforting words down the phone, told them he was going to be OK,
that he was going to get out. 'I didn't tell them what the situation really
was,' he now admits.

'I thought that was the last time I was going to speak to them.' On all the
floors, similar calls were being made. The higher the floor number, however, the
lower the chance of survival.

Moises Rivas, 29, a chef at the Windows On The World restaurant on the 106th
floor desperately tried to reach his wife - but she was out doing the laundry.

'Tell her I'm OK,' he quietly told his stepdaughter. 'Tell her I love her no
matter what.' It was the last call he would ever make.

Two floors down on the Cantor Fitzgerald floor, trader Jimmy DeBlase was on the
phone to his wife, Marion, when a sound like thunder interrupted them.

'Hold on,' Jimmy said, as he heard voices in the background shouting: 'What the
**** was that?' 'An airplane hit our building,' Jimmy told Marion. 'I have to
go'. In the equities trading area Stephen Cherry, another trader, pushed a
button on the desk to activate the squawkbox - a nationwide intercom to other
Cantor offices.

'Can anybody hear us?' said Cherry.

A trader in Chicago said she had called a fire station near the Twin Towers to
tell them people were trapped there. Of the 700 Cantor Fitzgerald staff in the
World Trade Centre, 657 would die.

Meanwhile, on the 83rd floor, three strangers burst into Fred Eichler's
conference room and frantically discussed how to get out alive.

ONE of them was a lawyer called Jonathan Judd, 37. He ran in crying: 'My wife's
just had a baby. I am never going to see my wife or baby again.' Fred took
command of the sobbing man. 'I went up to him, put my arm around him and said:
"We are going to get out."' He would repeat this mantra all the way down in
order to calm the agitated young man. Jonathan today credits Fred with saving
his life. But to actually get out was easier said than done. The hallway had
become an inferno.

Shattered stairwells were billowing with smoke. Water was cascading down the
stairs from the severed sprinkling pipes - but not enough to quench the smoke
that was building up with terrifying speed.

'We were stuffing wet towels and rags at the bottom of the doors, trying to keep
the smoke out,' says Fred. 'We wrestled with the idea of breaking a window to
get more air but the eight of us decided against it. We thought it might fuel
the fire and bring it in the office.

'Nobody panicked, we took these decisions together. Then at about three minutes
after nine we heard a massive explosion. We thought it was the floors above
crashing down on us. We didn't know it was the second plane hitting the other
tower.' It was 9.02am and 54 seconds.

JANICE BROOKS had been sitting at her desk on the 84th floor of the South Tower
when the first plane crashed into the North Tower. All she heard was a dull thud
and then, seconds later, she heard a voice yell: 'Everybody out!'

With her boss, Gil Scharf, on business in London, Janice decided to ring and let
him know they were leaving their desks. She had no idea a plane had crashed.

Gil wasn't there and Robin Clark, her former boss, answered the phone. 'I told
him: "Rob, something is happening next door but we are all OK and we are
leaving,"' recalls Janice. 'He replied: "Something is happening next door?

****ing hell, Janice, a plane has gone into the building. Get the **** out of
there!"' Clark had been watching the terrible events on television and the
warning he gave probably saved Janice's life.

Yet, as she ran through the dealing floor, past a friend of hers called Dan
Smith, Janice struggled to make sense of the fact that a colleague 3,500 miles
away knew more about what was happening than she did, less than 500 yards away.

Two of Janice's colleagues, Steve Chucknick and Jose Marrero, guided her into a
stairwell which was already full of people. Those in the South Tower could
already feel the heat from the fires raging in the other building.

But Janice had made her way down only 12 storeys when an official Tannoy
announcement told them that the tower was stable and they should return to their
offices.

As Janice turned round to go back up, she bumped into another Eurobroker
colleague and fellow British citizen, Paul Gilbey. As she tried to keep up with
him he teasingly shouted: 'Hurry up old woman!' but she soon fell behind.

Gilbey, Steve Chucknick and Jose Marrero were among 57 men and four women from
Eurobrokers who did not escape from the tower.

SECONDS later, Janice lost sight of her colleagues as she went through a fire
door, the walls and floor shook and she fell. At 9:02am and 54 seconds United
Flight 175 had hit the South Tower, entering at a tilt and raking across six
floors - 78 to 84, - the last being the Eurobrokers' office.

Most of the company's trading floor was annihilated. Steel furniture and
aluminium plane parts were torn into white-hot shrapnel, while a blast wave
hurled computers and desks through windows.

Down in the stairwell the ceiling's tiles fell in, dust and debris flew
everywhere and the doorframes buckled.

'Then I heard a woman's bloodcurdling scream coming from the other side of a
door,' recalls Janice.

'We started pulling on one side while those on the other side pushed and finally
it gave way.' Even now, Janice cannot describe what she saw without crying.

The first woman who came through the door had half her arm hanging off as though
someone had sliced through her skin with a machete. A man had huge pieces of
glass embedded in his chest. The woman who was screaming had blood all over her
face and was pitifully repeating that she couldn't see.

'I felt as if I was in a horror film but still didn't comprehend what had
happened,' says Janice. 'I kept telling myself that if a plane had hit one of
the towers the pilot must have had a heart attack.' Janice opened the fire door
she had just come through but the staircase she had been standing in just
minutes earlier was gone, destroyed by the blast.

Through the thick smoke, the group felt their way to another door where, by a
miracle, they found an undamaged staircase. Only one stairwell survived the
plane's impact and this was it.

Janice, who had taken off her high heels, could feel grit and water underneath
her feet. A Coca-Cola vending machine had exploded and there were bottles
everywhere.

Water gushed down the stairs where they walked, the eerie silence broken only by
the sounds of coughing and sobbing. The woman in front was bleeding heavily from
her arm and Janice realised blood was seeping in between her toes as she trod in
her footsteps. She was finding it difficult not to panic but a colleague of hers
- Bob Mahon - calmed her down. He eventually carried the injured woman on his
back from the 12th floor to the ground floor plaza.

Once they reached the plaza, with its litter of bodies, debris and steel, Janice
finally grasped the enormity of what had happened.

Hundreds of firemen, police officers and doctors were rushing everywhere.

One cop guided them to a street exit before adding: 'Don't look up. Just keep
your head down and run.' Gripping each other's hands, the pair started sprinting
away. Then they stopped and, defying the policeman's orders, Janice looked up.
Nausea hit her.

'Smoke and flames were pouring out of the floors between the 70s and 80s,' she
says. 'Where I had been sitting just minutes earlier was an inferno. I broke
down and sobbed: "What's happened, Bob? I can hear people saying another plane
hit our tower. Why?"' 'It's terrorism, Janice,' Bob replied.

It was 9.39am.

MEANWHILE Fred Eichler and his colleagues had been struggling to make their way
out of the North Tower.

The sprinklers had doused the fires somewhat in the hallway and the lights were
still on, so they headed out for what they thought was the stairwell. As they
got there, all the lights went out.

'We couldn't make out if it was a closet, a wiring room or whatever,' says Fred.
'It was pitch black and the smoke was everywhere.

'The feeling among us was that the rescuers knew we were up there and we would
be rescued, or we would die.' The eight groped their way back to the conference
room where they had originally been, with ceiling tiles falling all around them.
Some sat on the floor, hiding under desks. No one said a word.

They were lucky. On the floors above, so urgent was the need for air because of
the smoke and heat that people piled four and five high in window after window,
upper bodies hanging out, more than 1,300ft above the ground.

Computers had been smashed into windows to get some air, but by then fires were
rampaging through the floors where the plane had hit.

'About five floors from the top you have about 50 people with their faces
pressed against the window trying to breathe,' a police officer in a helicopter
reported. There was a terrifying choice: to jump or to wait to be burned alive.
One of the most haunting sights of the World Trade Centre disaster was that of
bodies hurtling through the air as the heat inside the tower became unbearable.

The New York City medical examiners' office admits it will never know how many
people fell or jumped from the Twin Towers.

Estimates put it as at least 37 and probably more than 50, although the true
figure will never be known because so many bodies were pulverised in the rubble.

Crouched inside the building, at 9.30am Fred saw a flashlight. It was a fireman
and a building worker. To this day he has no idea who they were or how they got
there.

'Somehow, one of them got up to our floor and showed us the way out,' he says.
'I have no idea who he was but I know he is dead. If he had been five minutes
later all of us would have died.' The fireman guided the group to the stairwell
that would take them down to floor 78 where they were to go right to the other
end of the lobby and use another stairwell in order to escape.

Following their flashlight beams, Fred and the others waded through puddles
created by the sprinkler system and methodically made their way down the stairs.

Firefighters were coming up the outside of the stairwell while they went down
the inside. The only light was from the emergency workers' flashlights.

Despite the desperate nature of the situation, Fred says that everyone remained
polite.

'At one point, an elderly woman was making her way down slowly,' he says. 'I and
a few others offered to carry her but she said no, so everyone carried on at her
pace.' About 30 floors down, a group of firefighters passed Fred, giving him
encouragement that if they could get up, he could get down.

Then, as they reached the 20th floor, there was a loud explosion and a whoosh of
air. Soot was everywhere. One survivor likened it to breathing dirt or eating
pure soil.

Fred and those around him didn't know it, but they were hearing and tasting the
effects of the South Tower's collapse. It was 10am.

They continued their slow and painful descent. By floor five, the lobby was
completely filled with smoke. Broken marble and glass festooned the floor in
piles.

'We thought we had got so close but we weren't going to make it,' remembers
Fred.

THEfirefighters directed them to another stairwell as debris continued to fall
and large beams above wavered frighteningly.

The building was beginning to collapse, an elevator shaft came crashing down and
as he finally reached the ground floor, the only way Fred could get out was
through a broken window.

As he finally escaped from the building, his first thought was for his family.
Fred begged to use a stranger's mobile phone to tell his wife he was out of the
tower.

'All she said was: "Run, run, run!"

She knew the first tower had already collapsed; I didn't. Then the firemen and
the police started shouting "Run" and we ran.' Four minutes after Fred left, the
second tower collapsed. It was Watching the horror on television, Fred's elder
daughter, Michelle, phoned her younger sister Mindy.

10.28am.

'Daddy's dead,' she sobbed. She did not believe he could have escaped from the
tower alive.

AND what of the aftermath?

Twelve months on, both Janice and Fred are still trying to recover from
September 11. But neither is willing to abandon New York despite the dreadful
experience they had.

Fred is packing up all his belongings from his villa in Marblehead,
Massachusetts, where he used to stay when not in New York, to move to Manhattan
full time, near to where his wife, a dean of business studies, works.

'When I was previously in business up here in Marblehead, my wife and I used to
be content to be together at weekends or in the school holidays,' he says.

'Now I realise that every moment of every day is a gift and we want to spend as
much time together as possible.' Fred, a chief financial officer, has not worked
since September 11.

His company, Axcelera, was destroyed and he has not been able to find a new post
since.

Recently, he saw a TV bulletin saying that September 11 had left 100,000 people
unemployed in Manhattan and it was expected that only 40,000 would get new jobs.

'Being out of work is driving me crazy,' says Fred. 'If I had a job I am sure it
would help get over September 11.' Yet he believes that it will take a long time
for him and his fellow New Yorkers to recover from the attacks.

He sees a city still in shock - and one that will have to deal with the memories
of the trauma in painful detail as the anniversary approaches.

'You can't get away from it,' he says. 'I know I can't and probably never will.
On our floor there were 15 people killed, ten seriously burned - one of them in
the men's room.

'If I had gone in there, where I had been heading at the time, I might not be
here now. I had nightmares for a while and I still get uptight when I see planes
flying low, but I still fly. I have a lot of visions of the firemen going up to
their death while we went down to carry on with our lives.

'Their lamps lit the way for us.

I still feel guilty sometimes that I survived.' JANICE feels similar emotions.
The image she cannot get out of her head is that of her colleague Dan Smith,
whom she ran past on the dealing floor. In the chaos she had just raced past
him, not thinking that others might not have realised how urgent the situation
would be.

'He was standing near my desk,' she says. 'I could have turned and asked him to
come down the stairs with me at the very beginning. I'm alive and he is dead and
I don't think I will ever be able to forgive myself.' Janice's family and
friends begged her to come home to Essex, but she has decided to stay in the
U.S., feeling that only her colleagues in New York can understand what she went
through. 'We all help pull each other through every single day,' she says.

Yet, a year on, she still cries every day. Eurobrokers provided counsellors for
its workers for three months after the attacks but Janice refused help until
recently.

Today, she is trying to cope with the aftermath and the recurring nightmares
that haunt her.

In one a young man is standing on a window ledge as the flames approach. She
watches the terror in his eyes as he realises that jumping 80 floors is his only
option.

All she can hear is his tie flapping in the wind.

If she manages to wake herself up at this point in the dream, the next time she
drifts off to sleep, she will see the young man jump to his death. As she tries
to rebuild her life, constantly reminding herself of how lucky she was to
escape, Janice, like Fred, feels that she can never blot the images of September
11 from her mind.

If she forgets for a moment, the gaping void where the Twin Towers once stood,
visible from her apartment window, reminds her.

'Ironically, on September 7, I had gone up to the top floor of the towers to see
the great view and took some terrific photos as the sun was setting over New
Jersey,' she recalls.

'The world felt such a great place that day. How naive we were.'


LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: NIGHTMARE: JANICE BROOKS AND FRED EICHLER BOTH FEEL IT WAS PURE LUCK
THAT THEY GOT OUT OF THE TWIN TOWERS ALIVE

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 03, 2002

Armagh fans tell of train attack terror;

BYLINE: By William Scholes

SECTION:  Pg. 1

LENGTH: 350 words


ARMAGH GAA fans' jubilant journey home on Sunday night ended in terror and
injury for some as supporters' trains and a bus came under attack in their home
county.

Supporters celebrating the Orchard County's final-clinching win over Dublin
dived to the floor for safety after a rock was hurled through a train carriage
window at 9.30pm just outside Portadown station.

Passengers, including children, were showered with shards of glass. One
passenger suffered cuts and bruises.

Police are treating the attack as sectarian.

One Armagh supporter said the train was several hundred yards from Portadown
railway station when it was stoned.

"The train was beginning to slow when suddenly a rock came through a window,
right beside where some children were sitting, " he said.

"They were covered in glass.

We all got on to the floor. It was dark and we didn't know what else might be
thrown. It was a total shock and it ruined the kids' day."

Armagh supporters on a second train reported that burning pallets had been
placed across the railway line, with a gang of youths armed with sticks waiting
to attack if it slowed.

A spokeswoman for Translink said all attacks were "deplored".

"The Translink staff on board the train are to be praised for their quick
thinking and professionalism, " she said.

The spokeswoman said the second train had "encountered a fire on the line just
outside Portadown station at around 10.10pm and a number of people on the
railway line near the blockade".

Meanwhile, a bus carrying jubilant Armagh supporters home from Dublin came under
attack outside Markethill. Two teenagers were injured and windows and the
windscreen of the bus were broken.

One of the youths suffered cuts to his head and the other had cuts to his arm.

A police spokesman said officers were posted at locations in Co Armagh where GAA
supporters had previously been attacked. The locations of these patrols were
"under constant review" for the final, he said.

Gardai said there were no reports of trouble among the 79,386 fans crammed into
Croke Park.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 The Irish News Limited

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               September 3, 2002

Terror Attack Memorial Bid

SECTION: News; Consumer; Crazes; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 61 words


Mark Millington, based at Ashfield Station, is trying to raise the funds for the
trip next week.  He hopes to make it to the event to represent both his family
and his colleagues from Notts.

He said: "I have been very interested in what American firefighters have had to
say since the attacks last September and it will be great to go out there and
meet them."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Nottingham Evening Post

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 4, 2002

THROWN INTO THE ABYSS 'I had a lovely home, a baby on the way and a great future
ahead of me. Then the husband I adored was killed in the Twin Towers. In a split
second, my entire life was destroyed;
EYEWITNESS sept 11 Continuing our special series re-examining the world's worst
terrorist attack one year on

BYLINE: Rebecca English

SECTION: Pg. 36;37;38

LENGTH: 2940 words


AS she woke on the morning of September 11, at her home in North London,
Elizabeth Turner immediately reached for her mobile phone.

On it was a message from her husband, Simon, reassuring her that he had arrived
safely in New York and promising to call again later in the day.

Drawing back the curtains, she basked in a shaft of crisp autumn sunshine that
flooded the bedroom and illuminated the swell of the child growing inside her.

Like most pregnant woman, Elizabeth was determined not to count her blessings
yet. But on this particular morning she allowed herself a small smile of
satisfaction.

'It was one of those gorgeously bright autumn mornings,' she recalls. 'Simon and
I had just enjoyed a lovely weekend starting to clear out a nursery for the baby
and choose the furnishings.

'We adored each other and were so looking forward to our first child being born
in less than two months. It just hit me in a rush how perfect life was.'

Normally such thoughts are fleeting, lost in the day-today grind of life. But in
the dark and harrowing months that were to follow, this brief moment of joy has
taken on a grim significance.

For unbeknown to Elizabeth as she listened to the familiar clipped tones of her
husband's voice, he had only a few hours to live.

Company executive Simon, 39, was one of 87 Britons to die in the World Trade
Centre atrocity. He was welcoming delegates to a conference in the Windows On
The World restaurant - situated on the 106th floor of the North Tower - when the
first plane, American Airlines Flight 11, crashed into the building at 8.46am.

The impact left a gaping chasm in the structure five floors below and within
seconds flames and smoke engulfed the complex as thousands of tons of aviation
fuel ignited, leaving those above no means of escape.

The world could only stand and watch helplessly as, 90 minutes later, the tower
collapsed, killing almost all of the survivors still inside. Simon's body has
never been found.

DURING the months that have passed since that day, Elizabeth has experienced a
gamut of swirling emotions and raw pain. It has been a long and difficult
process, and her journey is by no means complete.

But she is a strong and resourceful woman, determined that Simon's unborn baby -
the only child born to a British Twin Towers victim after their death - should
be allowed to grow up as a normal boy.

There can be no greater testimony to this remarkable woman than that little
William, born two months after Simon died, is the most delightfully contented
child, with a broad smile that is the spitting image of his father's.

In truth, there is almost an aura of peace around her as she gazes adoringly at
her tenmonthold son, proudly displaying his first two teeth. It seems all the
more extraordinary when she recounts the appalling extent of her loss.

FROM the moment they met at a dinner party in August 1997, there was little
doubt to those around them that Simon and Elizabeth were soulmates. That first
night they sat up talking until 4am.

'Simon called me two days later and we arranged to go out on our first official
date. By our third meeting I knew he was the man I would marry,' she said.

Simon was born in London and joined the King's Troop Royal Horse Artillery at
18. After three years he left the Army, although he remained a member of the
Honourable Artillery Company, part of the Territorial Army, and moved swiftly up
the corporate ladder.

At the time of his death he was on the board of directors at Risk Waters, a
company publishing financial magazines.

'Simon was larger than life. He had an enormous personality and loved
socialising and entertaining,' said Elizabeth, 33, a vicar's daughter.

'Having been in the Army he was very confident and selfassured, which I found
enormously attractive. But the other side of Simon was that he was so
compassionate. When he asked you how you were, he meant it.

That's quite rare in a man.' Simon proposed on the last night of a romantic
Tuscan holiday the following year, and less than six months later the couple
were married by Elizabeth's father at his church in Horsforth, near Leeds.

'My family knew that I had met the man I loved and wanted to spend the rest of
my life with,' she said. 'Simon would often marvel at just how good our
relationship was. He used to say it shouldn't be so easy. But it genuinely was.'
The couple bought a rundown Edwardian house in Muswell Hill, North London, which
they set about turning into a family home. 'I'm the youngest of four and my
parents have been married for 40 years, so I'd always wanted children of my
own,' she said.

'We decided to start trying for a baby at the beginning of last year and I fell
pregnant almost immediately. We were both ecstatic, and would sit up late into
the night discussing plans for our baby's future.' ON Monday, September 10,
Simon caught the 4pm flight from Heathrow to New York, as he did at least once a
month, to host a conference in the World Trade Centre.

Elizabeth had just weeks to go before she went on maternity leave from her job
as a senior human resources manager at Channel 4.

That morning the couple had walked together to East Finchley Tube station where
they kissed goodbye as Elizabeth set off to her office and Simon headed for the
airport.

'To be honest, I can hardly remember what we said as it was so rushed,' she
said. 'I had a travel pass but Simon had to queue for ages to get his ticket.

'As I was seven months' pregnant it took me so long to do everything that Simon
told me to go on ahead. Although I didn't realise it at the time, it was to be
the last time I ever saw him.' Simon landed in New York safely. On the morning
of Tuesday, September 11, Elizabeth left for work, happy and content, after
hearing his message on her phone.

'It was a busy day and I worked through the morning, broken only by a phone call
from Simon at about 11.45am British time. He was calling me from his hotel
before he left for his conference.

'I still can't bring myself to talk about what we said during that last
conversation. My husband's death has become such public property that I am
desperate to keep something for myself.' For the first time, Elizabeth's
composure breaks and she buries her face in a tissue. It is Fighting back:
Elizabeth Turner with William, the son she and her husband Simon (inset), who
died in the Twin Towers, so longed for devastating to watch as, until now, she
has been the picture of restraint.

'I'm sorry,' she apologises. 'The fact that he died in the world's worst
terrorist atrocity is such a double-edged sword. On one hand I have the comfort
that, hopefully, his death actually meant something to the world. But every time
I switch on the TV or open a newspaper, I also see his death being replayed over
and over, right in front of my eyes.' At lunchtime Elizabeth popped downstairs
from her office for something to eat. At the same time, across the Atlantic, her
husband was welcoming his guests to the Windows On The World restaurant.

the time she returned to her office, news was just breaking that American
Airlines Flight 11 had crashed into the building. Scenes of carnage began to
flicker across the bank of television screens in front of her at the Channel 4
headquarters.

'As the news flash came up, time seemed to stand still. I knew Simon was in one
of the towers but I didn't know which one or where,' she said.

'At first the practical side of me kicked in and I convinced myself that Simon
was going to be OK. Then, as I watched, I saw the second plane plough into the
South Tower. I realised it was a terrorist attack.

'My heart was hammering in my ears as I rushed to the phone and tried to get
Simon on his mobile, but it went straight to the answering machine.

Then I tried to call his New York office but I couldn't get through.

'I spoke to his office in London who told me they had heard from some of the
people at the conference who said there had been a bomb scare and everyone was
being evacuated.

'My body just went onto auto-pilot as I tried to call everyone I could think of
for news. I was still on the phone to Simon's office when a friend ran in to
tell me that the buildings had collapsed.

'I just lost it completely. I was absolutely hysterical. My sister drove to my
office and took me home.

'All that day my family tried desperately to get news of Simon. I can't really
remember anything, though. I think I was in too much shock. The next few days
were just a blur of faces, whispered conversations and tears.

'I became obsessed with going to New York to look for Simon myself. There was
still so much confusion and I wanted to know whether Simon was in a hospital
somewhere.

'Common sense prevailed, and Simon's brother, Keith, and our best man, Peter,
went out to look for him. They spent days tramping through the city, visiting
hospitals, putting up posters and asking people if they'd seen him.

But on Thursday they phoned to say there was no sign of him.

'That glimmer of hope that had carried me through those awful days just died. I
realised that my husband would never be coming home.

'I sat down and sobbed, feeling like my heart had broken. I was so lost, so
bereft and I just didn't know what to do next.

'A week before my whole life had been mapped out - husband, house and baby - and
now, in a split second, it had been completely destroyed.

'I was staring into this enormous, black abyss and I just didn't know how I was
going to get out of it without Simon at my side. That was where my family and
friends kicked in. They organised a 24-hour rota so I was never left on my own.

'I just operated on auto-pilot. I think my brain knew I couldn't cope with the
trauma and just shut itself off in order to protect my baby.'

SIMON'S child was born at a private London hospital on November 14, weighing 8lb
5oz. Instead of her adoring husband, Elizabeth's best friend, the woman who
introduced them, was by her side. It was a bittersweet moment: the beginning of
a new life cruelly emphasising the loss of another.

'In the end I was induced as the baby was overdue but the birth was fine. I
remember the doctor handing my baby to me in a blanket. He was the most
beautiful thing I had ever seen. Simon and I hadn't known the baby's sex but we
had decided on a name if it were a boy: William Simon.

'Jane and all the hospital staff were crying but I was quite calm. I couldn't
allow myself to think about Simon - it was William's day.

'The emotion only kicked in a few days later. The realisation that this
beautiful little thing would never know his father overwhelmed me. The loss was
so painful I could feel it physically.' For Elizabeth, one of the biggest
hurdles in overcoming her grief was to acknowledge the fear that Simon must have
felt as he realised he was going to die. Little is known about what may have
happened to the 150 or so people that perished alongside him on the 106th floor
of the North Tower.

All would have survived the initial impact of the plane and some were even able
to call their loved ones before the tower, the second to collapse, was reduced
to rubble - but after that no one really knows the horrors the victims may have
had to face.

'Everybody told me not to think about it. They said I would only be torturing
myself,' said Elizabeth. 'But I knew that as horrendous as the truth may be, I
just couldn't settle for the idea that Simon had just breathed in a puff of
smoke and gone to sleep.

'I had been to Windows On The World and knew what it looked like. So I went
there, again, in my own mind. I tried to imagine the fear that Simon would have
felt, the pain and panic. I never realised my emotions could plunge so low.

'But it helped me to understand why I never received a call from Simon, like so
many of the other husbands and wives.

'In his last moments, I'm sure he was still thinking of me - at home, seven
months' pregnant - and the effect it would have had. He knew it would only
terrify me if he called.

'There are moments when pain still hits me like a bulldozer. Like the time I was
walking on a cliff while on holiday in Cornwall and saw the most beautiful
sunset. I just absolutely broke down.

'The realisation that I would never share anything like that again with Simon
was almost too much to bear. But at least I have the comfort that Simon died
knowing how much we meant to each other. Even if I were given another day with
him there is nothing I would do or say differently. I have no regrets.' The
experience that Elizabeth has undergone since September 11 has changed her life
for ever. Not just in the physical loss of her husband and all that it entails,
but her whole perception of the way in which we live our lives.

'Before September 11, I had always led a very traditional, middleclass
upbringing - I thought I knew how life should be.

The events of that day made me realise that the reality is different, that life
doesn't always go to plan.

'It made me determined to do something with my life that actually has some
meaning. I think it is the same for a lot of people now.

'And in a strange way, I am more at peace with myself than before.

On that one day all my worst fears came true. How could anything else in life be
as bad?' Elizabeth has now given up her job to launch a charity - Simon & Us -
to share her experiences with others suffering from tragic loss.

Financially it will be tough, but she is unwavering in her conviction.

'Watching the footage of the World Trade Centre collapse encapsulates everything
I experienced with Simon's death. It was as if my whole life had smashed to the
floor, with an unimaginable force, quickly and without explanation,' she says.

'Afterwards, all you can do is survey the smouldering wreckage with a sense of
disbelief. I remember desperately thinking that my life was completely and
utterly shattered.

'How was I going to survive without this man at my side and a small baby to look
after? I thought that my life was one big, empty black void with no meaning, no
purpose.

'I went to counsellors in the hope they could help. I talked and cried until I
had no tears left but I still felt empty inside. Finally I realised that the
only person who could help me come to terms with this experience - the loss of
the man I loved - was me.

'The realisation was a lifeline and rescued me from the black hole that was
threatening to take hold of me.

'I embarked on complementary therapies such as Reiki healing, holistic coaching
and aromatherapy to deal with my grief, looking after my mind, body and spirit.
I realised that, given the right tools, you can heal yourself from within.

'It has taught me to work through the most horrific of emotions and develop an
inner calmness despite the turmoil of my life and the world in which we live.

'Now I feel I have achieved a balance and a peace in my life that I didn't have
before. That's not to say it has been easy. In fact it has been the hardest
thing I have ever done.

In my mind I've been to places you would never want to go to. But I have faced
the pain head on and I've come out the other side.' Elizabeth is raising funds
to set up a centre offering an holistic approach to grief, ranging from
practical advice to complementary therapies and holistic coaching.

'For me, the results have been amazing - in fact it has saved my life - and I am
convinced it will help others,' she said.

'We need at least GBP 250,000 to start up our first centre but we would like to
go nationwide.' In March she visited Ground Zero for the first time and plans to
take William with her to New York next week to mark the first anniversary of the
tragedy.

'I have to be there, at the place where Simon and so many others lost their
lives,' she said.

'Simon's body has never been found, so it is the closest that I can come to
visiting his grave. I think that is why so many of the families are adamant that
the site of the Towers should never be built on.' As for William - what will she
tell her son about the father he will never have the chance to meet?

'The letters and cards that I received following Simon's death say it all,' she
says.

'William would have had a wonderful life with myself and his father - and I
still hope that will be the case. He is not a replacement for Simon and never
will be. He is his own person and will make his own mark in life. Obviously he
will ask me one day why he hasn't got a daddy and I will tell him the truth.

'Of course, I have felt anger - towards Osama bin Laden, towards the airlines
for letting the hijackers on board. But I've gone past that now. I feel this is
not about apportioning blame and, in a way, we are all partly responsible for
what happened.

'The events of September 11 weren't just an attack on America, they were a
protest against the whole Western world and the way we conduct our lives.

'The biggest danger is that the world does not learn from the experience.

The best tribute we could pay to all those who died in the Twin Towers is to
ensure that something so utterly devastating never happens again. Something
positive must come out of it.' AT Elizabeth's request, the Daily Mail has made a
donation to Simon & Us in return for this interview.

Readers can also make donations by cheque payable to Bircham Dyson Bell
Solicitors and sent to Simon & Us (Charity) PO Box 39416 London N10 1YZ.

Information on the charity can be found at: www.simonandus.org.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FIGHTING BACK: ELIZABETH TURNER WITH WILLIAM, THE SON SHE AND HER
HUSBAND SIMON (INSET), WHO DIED IN THE TWIN TOWERS, SO LONGED FOR

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 4, 2002

Finance: The bears are back in town: Markets fall worldwide as fears spreadof
renewed slump or terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Larry Elliott and Charlotte Denny

SECTION: Finance; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 634 words


Share prices crashed around the world yesterday after dealers reacted negatively
to a cocktail of concerns from fresh evidence of a slowdown in the US to fears
of a repeat terrorist attack on the anniversary of September 11.

More than pounds 36bn was wiped off the value of shares in London as a sell-off
in equities which started in the Far East rippled first to Europe and then to
North America, where the Down Jones index lost 4% of its value.

Japan's Nikkei index set the tone for a day of extreme jitters, falling 304
points to 9,217, its lowest level in 18 years, amid anxieties that the country's
export industries will be adversely affected America's stalled recovery.

London's FTSE index of leading shares closed down 152.3 points at 4028.6, having
dipped below the 4,000 level as a wave of selling engulfed Wall Street at the
opening bell. US dealers were unnerved by an analyst's report suggesting
Citigroup, one of the stalwarts of the Dow Jones, could see its bottom line
affected by the fallout from corporate scandals at Worldcom and Enron. Shares in
the banking group fell 8% in early trading.

Bythe close of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average had fallen more than
350 points tojust above the 8,300 mark, while the technology-rich Nasdaq and the
broadly based S&P 500 were also down sharply.

The dollar was also under pressure on the foreign exchanges, losing more than a
cent against the euro to trade at 99.64 cents, its closest brush with parity for
five weeks.

Dealers said that last month's hefty rally in share prices on both sides of the
Atlantic had now run out of steam.

Henk Potts, an equity strategist at Barclays Private Clients, said: "September
is a notoriously bad month, and this September is going to be particularly
difficult with the anniversary of September 11 and the possible invasion of
Iraq."

Fresh evidence of the weakness of US manufacturing added to dealers' worries
after a closely watched business survey disappointed expectations of a
bounceback last month.

"Clearly the recovery in the US economy remains patchy at best, with the country
in no fit state to lead the eurozone and Japan out of the mire," said Martin
Essex, a senior economist at Capital Economics.

The malaise on Europe's bourses was fuelled by a similar combination of
corporate and economic weakness. Rumours that Zurich, one of Europe's largest
insurers, will be forced into a Dollars 2.5bn cash call to repair its balance
sheet, hit prices across the continent.

In Paris, the CAC closed down 4.5%, while Frankfurt's DAX ended the day off
5.8%.

Analysts in New York are now nervously awaiting Friday's unemployment data to
gauge whether the slowdown in manufacturing highlighted by yesterday's survey
has been accompanied a new spate of job cuts.

Pressure is already building up on Wall Street for the Federal Reserve to cut
interest rates from their 40-year low of 1.75% at its meeting later this month.

Analysts fear a rise in unemployment could hit fragile American consumer
confidence and knock the last support out from under the faltering recovery.

The Institute for Supply Management said its activity index registered just 50.5
in August, well below analysts' expectations and only just above the critical 50
breakeven level. New orders fell below the 50 mark for the first time in nine
months, a sign that future growth could be disappointingly sluggish.

"It's not making anybody happy about the economy," said Cary Leahey, senior US
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities.

The anniversary of September 11 is also weighing on dealers' minds. US airlines
have cancelled flights on that day in response to the threat of repeat terrorist
attacks.

Special report on global recession at guardian.co.uk/recession


LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Herald Express (Torquay)

                               September 5, 2002

Terror Attack Robber Jailed

SECTION: News; Courts; CrownCourt; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 320 words


After a three-day trial, 28-year-old Gary Round was convicted of robbing the
Chocolate Box shop in Manor Road, Preston, and taking a car without consent.
Passing sentence at Exeter Crown Court yesterday, Judge Francis Gilbert QC told
Round that he had committed a heinous crime and had absolutely terrified the
17-year-old female assistant. The jury heard how Round jumped into the car near
his home in Torquay while the vehicle's owner was in a fish and chip shop.

She had left the keys in the ignition and her daughter in the back.  Fortunately
the daughter managed to get out before Round drove off.

He headed towards Paignton and parked up while he raided the Chocolate Box.
Having grabbed the money he fled, leaving the nailed club behind.

Then began a catalogue of getaway disasters. Police spotted the car and Round
was forced to abandon it, leaving his mobile telephone in the vehicle.

Next he tried to escape on a stolen bicycle but picked one with a flat tyre and
had to abandon that too.

At the same time he discarded an Adidas jacket which he had been wearing at the
time of the robbery.

Finally after two attempts he managed to persuade a nearby householder to allow
him to telephone for a taxi and made his escape by cab.

He later phoned his mobile which by then was in the hands of the police, along
with the jacket. Round was arrested in Torquay and when quizzed about the raid,
told officers he had been out drinking alone at the time of the robbery.

And he claimed that he must have left his jacket and phone at one of the pubs he
visited.

Round, of Belgrave Road, had pleaded not guilty to robbery and to taking the
car.

But the jury was told that police had seized CCTV footage which showed a man in
an Adidas jacket leaving the Factory Row accommodation used by Round at 6pm,
which meant he could not have lost it, or the phone, earlier in the day.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Herald Express (Torquay)

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          September 5, 2002, Thursday

WOMEN IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 52 words


TWO masked men attacked three elderly women for their bingo money as they walked
home from a social club on Wednesday night.

The men held a knife to the throat of one pensioner, 71, and pushed another,
aged 78, into a hedge during the robbery in Eckington, Derbyshire. The other
vic-tim was also 78.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 6, 2002, Friday

AFGHANISTAN TERROR ATTACKS BLAMED ON BIN LADEN GROUP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 333 words


AN ASSASSINATION attempt on the Afghan leader Hamid Karzai and a Kabul bomb
attack which killed at least 10 people were last night blamed on Osama bin
Laden's terror network, al Qaida.

Prime Minister Tony Blair sent a message to the Afghan president expressing his
shock at the attempt on Mr Karzai's life, which happened just hours after a car
bomb exploded in the capital.

Witnesses said Mr Karzai was "extremely lucky" to have escaped unharmed after an
Afghan security guard opened fire on his car as it left the governor's mansion
in Kandahar, the former spiritual home of the Taliban.

Mr Karzai had been attending the wedding of his brother in the southern city.

The Kandahar governor, Gul Agha Sherzai, was wounded in the attack and witnesses
saw him bleeding from the neck. A bodyguard sitting in the front of the car was
also injured.

Mr Karzai's American bodyguards opened fire in response to the shooting and
three people were killed, including one who was wearing an Afghan military
uniform. BBC reporter Lyse Doucet, who witnessed the attack, said Mr Karzai told
her afterwards he was "safe and sound".

Earlier, a powerful car bomb rocked a busy market area in the centre of Kabul,
killing at least 10 people.

It was the latest in a series of bomb attacks in the Afghan capital since August
15 and the first to claim lives.

Afghan foreign minister Dr Abdullah Abdullah blamed both the assassination
attempt and the bomb attack on al Qaida.

He said: "Terrorists are behind both attacks, there is no doubt about it. And
terrorists in this region are led by Osama and his associates."

Ronald Nash, the British ambassador to Afghanistan, said there was a possibility
that bin Laden's terrorist network, blamed for the September 11 outrages, was
responsible.

But rejectionist groups like that connected to former Prime Minister Gulbuddin
Hekmatyar may be responsible. Such groups, linked to the Taliban regime, did not
accept the present peace.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM: An Afghan boy injured in Kabul; KARZAI: Target

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 6, 2002, Friday

PO GUNMEN LEFT TRAIL OF TERROR';
 FIVE MEN ACCUSED OF VIOLENT ATTACKS IN N. WALES GANG CHARGED WITH 19 ARMED
ROBBERIES IN JUST 18 MONTHS

BYLINE: Carl Butler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1045 words


A RUTHLESS and professional gang targeted post offices within a golden triangle,
a court heard yesterday.

The raiders carefully selected post offices in an area of Deeside and North
Cheshire which was easily accessible from the M53, M56 and the A55.

Peter Hughes QC, prosecuting, said other post offices outside the area were
robbed probably because the gang realised the police were on to them and they
needed to look further afield.

When police in Cheshire and North Wales realised they were probably dealing with
the same gang their two operations - Operation Flame and Operation Honey - were
combined and surveillance started on some of the gang.

Chester Crown Court heard how there were similarities in the crimes.

Thorough research was carried out - the gang seemed to know details about the
postmasters and their families. They knew when they were expecting extra cash to
be delivered.

High speed cars were chosen and stolen days before, their number plates switched
and the cars kept in lock-up garages, two in Elton and one in Queensferry.

Victims were threatened, often with weapons taken from the post offices - such
as knives. Victims were bound and gagged, usually with a grey sticky tape.

Three of the post offices were robbed twice, said Mr Hughes. Two of the victims
were attacked not in the post office but in their homes, driven back to the post
offices and forced to open safes.

"The prosecution is the result of a lengthy and painstaking investigation, the
product of traditional detective work, combined with the assistance of modern
science," he said.

Police would present DNA and forensic evidence, along with footprints and fibres
found at more than one scene.

Five Merseyside men all deny conspiracy, with others unknown, to rob 19 sub post
offices between May 2000 and November 2001, using force or fear of force against
postmasters, their staff and family, in order to steal cash.

They are: Stephen Barlow, 38 of Lambourne Road, Norris Green; John Barlow, 39,
of Eaton Road, West Derby; Alan Motion, 34, of Keir Hardy Avenue, Bootle; Paul
Molloy, 35, of Haggerston Road, Liverpool; and Duane Trussell, 39, of Chepstow
Road, Walton.

The prosecution outlined some of the attacks: L CHURCH TERRACE, HOLYHEAD: May
20, 2000 - nearly pounds 97,500 stolen.

Post master Frank Jones was opening up at 8.40am and was confronted by two
masked men armed with a knife and baseball bat.

They had used power tools to break in overnight. It was a Bank Holiday period
and extra money had been delivered.

Mr Jones was bound with silver grey sticky tape. The gang used a high
performance Sierra 4X4, reported stolen from Llandudno, and abandoned it in
Trearddur Bay.

A balaclava was found on its front seat and DNA match to Motion, claimed the
prosecution.

L ASHTON, CHESHIRE: May 22, 2000, more than pounds 6,000 stolen.

Postmistress Helen Rimmer was at home with her son when two masked men burst
into her living room with a shotgun and what appeared to be a baseball bat.

She was "frogmarched" into the post office, while her son Peter was threatened
with a gun. Both were tied up with twine.

They struck again on January 8, 2001, when more than pounds 11,000 was stolen.

This time Mrs Rimmer's husband was in bed and she was at home with her daughter
when four masked men burst into her living room with baseball bats.

L BUNBURY VILLAGE STORE, CHESHIRE: August 28, 2000, more than pounds 4,000
stolenThe store and off-licence was combined with a post office.

It was closing at 9pm when two female assistants were confronted by two masked
men with a sawn off shotgun and forced to open the safe.

Two witnesses saw a stolen BMW528 leave the scene. The stolen car was later
abandoned in Tarporley. Police found a bloodstain on rear armrest of BMW which
matched the DNA of Stephen Barlow.

L OVERTON, FRODSHAM: January 4, 2001, just over pounds 24,000 stolen.

This post office was targeted twice in just over four weeks.

Postmaster Roy Lawton and his family were confronted by four masked men bursting
into his living room, armed with sticks and poles. Mr Lawton was forced to open
safe.

Again on February 6, 2001, more than pounds 28,000 was taken.

Again at 8.30pm Mr and Mrs Lawton were confronted by four masked men in their
living room. Mr Lawton held out and refused to co-operate even when a
screwdriver is placed at his neck.

He was punched in the face, hit on the head and kicked. When his wife was
threatened Mr Lawton complied with their demands. Both needed hospital
treatment.

L RIVERBANK, BAGILLT: January 8, 2001, more than pounds 14,500 stolen.

Technically this was a burglary since the postmaster John Wain was not in when
the gang struck between 6.30pm and 10.30pm.

The safe was completely removed and discovered empty a month later dumped in a
pond at Christleton, near Chester.

L SALTNEY FERRY, FLINTSHIRE: January 17, 2001, more than pounds 13,500 stolen.

Postmaster Thomas McDermott was in the kitchen when two masked men burst in. A
third man rounded up Mrs McDermott from the living room. They are bound by the
wrists and ankles before the robber leave.

THE ATTACKS

May 2000: Church Terrace, Holyhead - postmaster Frank Jones

May 2000: Ashton, Cheshire - postmistress Helen Rimmer

Aug 2000: Bunbury, Cheshire - assistants Maureen Burrows and Lynda Lloyd

Jan 2001: River Bank, Bagillt - postmaster John Wain

Jan 2001: Ashton, Cheshire

Jan 2001: Saltney Ferry - postmaster Thomas McDermott

Jan 2001: Overton - postmaster Roy Lawton

Feb 2001: Overton

Mar 2001: Ewloe Place, Buckley - postmistress Jennifer Williams

Apr 2001: Anderton, Cheshire - postmaster Norman Higgin

Apr 2001: Cefnybedd - postmaster Melvin Kenneally

Apr 2001: Church Terrace, Holyhead

Apr 2001: Kidsgrove, Stafford-shire - postmistress Dorothy Hancock

May 2001: Crosby - postmaster Stanley Norvill

Jun 2001: New Brighton, Mold - postmaster Roy Hampshire

Aug 2001: Burton, Staffordshire-- postmaster Ivor Littler

Aug 2001: Moira, Ashton under Lyne - postmistress Mary Holey

Oct 2001: Alton Street, Crewe - postmistress Carole Ralphs

Nov 2001: Weedon, Northamp-tonshire - postmaster Peter Thomas

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POLICE ESCORT: The accused arriving at Chester Crown Court yesterday;
CLOSED: A note in the window of Holyhead Post Office after the robbery; JUNE
2001: New Brighton, Mold; APRIL 2001: Cefnybedd; MARCH 2001:; Ewloe Place,
Buckley; JANUARY 2001: Saltney Ferry; JANUARY 2001: River; Bank, Bagillt; MAY
2000 AND APRIL 2001: Church Terrace, Holyhead

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 6, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: DEADLY ATTACKS: KABOOM;
 DAY THE WAR ON TERROR BLEW UP IN ITS FACE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 29 words

HIGHLIGHT: PITIFUL: Boy injured by Kabul bomb yesterday. Hours later three men,
top, were shot dead in Kandahar after trying to kill president


Al-Qaeda blitz in Kabul and Kandahar

Assassins killed shooting at Afghan chief

15 dead as huge car bomb blasts market

Carter at war with Bush over Iraq plans

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 6, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: DEADLY ATTACKS: OTHER SUSPECTED AL-QAEDA STRIKES SINCE SEPT 11

BYLINE: Fiona Cummins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 113 words

HIGHLIGHT: AFTERMATH: Cars lie upside down and wrecked in Kabul after
yesterday's bombing Picture: ANDY STENNING


AL-QAEDA has been behind a series of atrocities since September 11.

In June, 11 French Navy engineers were killed in Karachi, Pakistan, when a
suicide car bomber rammed their bus.

In April al-Qaeda claimed an attack on a synagogue in Tunisia that killed 21,
including 14 German tourists. A plot by terrorists in dinghies to blow up
British and US warships in the Straits of Gibraltar was foiled with the help of
the Moroccan government. Three Saudi men were arrested.

In July US special forces came under rocket attack in south east Afghanistan.
Four 107mm rockets were fired at Bagram air base. Both attacks were claimed by a
gang believed linked to al-Qaeda.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 6, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: DEADLY ATTACKS: THIS IS AL-QAEDA .. THEY'RE TELLING THE WORLD
THEY'RE BACK;
 AFGHAN LEADER ESCAPES AS BOMB KILLS 15

BYLINE: Gary Jones In Kabul

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 854 words

HIGHLIGHT: FIVE MINUTES OF MAYHEM: THE ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATION OF A PRESIDENT;;
TARGET: Karzai, right, walks with governor Sherzai in Kandahar before the
attack; OPEN TO ATTACK: Karzai waves to supporters while the gunmen wait in
ambush; GUNNED DOWN: One of the three men shot by US special forces in the
southern city of Kandahar yesterday after President Karzai survived an
assassination attempt; MANHUNT: Karzai's American guards search for suspects
after the shooting; ON GUARD: US special forces step up security in Kandahar
following the attack


AL-QAEDA gunmen tried to assassinate Afghan leader Hamid Karzai yesterday hours
after 15 people died in a bomb blast in Kabul.

The attacks, less than a week before the anniversary of September 11, sent a
grim message that Osama bin Laden's terror group is still in business.

Kabul military security officer Haqela Hazizy, whose mother was severely injured
in the bombing, said: "This is al-Qaeda. They're telling the world they're
back."

President Karzai was targeted as he was driven through the former Taliban
stronghold of Kandahar where he was attending his brother Ahmed's wedding.

As he opened the car window to greet a well-wisher a gunman in Afghan military
uniform stepped forward and let off up to four shots.

One bullet slammed past Mr Karzai's ear, seriously injuring Kandahar governor
Gul Agha Sherzai sitting next to him.

US special forces guarding the president immediately opened fire killing three
men, including the gunman. BBC reporter Lyse Doucet, who witnessed the attack
from a vehicle just behind Mr Karzai, said: "There was absolute chaos.

"The president leaned from the window of his car after a boy approached him to
shake his hand.

"Moments later an Afghan in uniform moved forward and fired four rounds into the
vehicle.

"Two bullets whizzed past the president. One injured the governor and another
bullet hit a bodyguard in the front seat."

Last night, President Karzai told his people he was unhurt. He said: "I expect
things like this."

President Bush was said to be relieved the Afghan leader had escaped. Tony Blair
sent a message saying he was shocked. Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said the
shooting was "wholly senseless".

Hours earlier, a car bomb thought to have been planted by al-Qaeda ripped
through a marketplace in the heart of Kabul killing at least 15 people and
injuring up to 100 more.

In a cynical attempt to murder as many as possible, the bombers first set off a
small device on a bicycle.

Then, as crowds gathered and civil servants left work at the nearby Ministry of
Information, they detonated a huge device in a yellow and white Toyota taxi.

Bodies of women and children were strewn across the area, clothing and pieces of
flesh littered the road and pavement and hundreds of windows were shattered.

At least eight military personnel - one, a general - were seriously injured as
they tried to seal off the area after the first bomb.

Nursing a head wound, survivor Mir Ahmad said: "I thought such things had ended
in Afghanistan.

"I blame al-Qaeda. These terrorists have returned to kill our people."

His suspicions were echoed by other witnesses. Asked who they believed
responsible for the attack, they shouted: "Al Qaeda! Al Qaeda!" In heart
-rending scenes, bloodied victims wandered the streets, some crying for their
loved ones.

I tried to comfort young mother Basima Ajad whose pale blue burka was slashed by
flying debris.

Tearful Basima, 31 was desperate to find her son Naqib, 11, who she feared was
dead.

She wailed: "I want my son, I want my son. I was shopping with my children when
a big fire blew up in our faces. I ran away holding their hands but couldn't see
Naqib. I can't help thinking he's dead." Mother of three Haqela Hazizy, 36, was
only 15 yards away when the bomb went up. She was knocked unconscious and had
injuries to her head, stomach and leg.

Crying out in pain in hospital as she waited to go into the operating theatre,
she said: "How could they do this? Why would anyone want to kill innocent women
and children?"

A construction worker in his 20s said: "I saw five dead bodies. People were
running away in shock and I could hear the wounded calling for help through the
smoke."

Shopkeeper Wul Saidy, 35, tended his shaken brother Hamed who was hit by
shrapnel. He said: "He will live, thank God. But my other brother was wounded by
flying metal and is unconscious."

Kabul police chief Basir Salangi said of the bombers: "These were foreign people
who have no humanity." His deputy Mohammad Khalil added: "The Taliban and
al-Qaeda have revealed their black faces again."

Khalil also blamed former guerrilla chief and premier, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, who
earlier this week denied claims he had linked with al-Qaeda. He has called for
holy war on the Karzai government.

Senior army security officer General Afzal Amman told the Mirror: "Detonating a
small explosion, then a much larger one, was designed to kill as many people as
possible. Whoever is behind this is evil beyond belief.

"Some military men were injured trying to protect local people. We know how the
minds of these terrorists work. We thought there would be another blast."

Earlier an Interior Ministry official told the Mirror that al-Qaeda were
planning a spectacular hit.

Despite the threat of more bombs many people returned to gawp at the blast
scene. Police beat them back with metal chains and sticks.

Although there have been several small explosions in the city in recent months
yesterday's was the biggest since President Karzai's interim government was
formed.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               September 6, 2002

Terror Attack Remembered

SECTION: News; Other; Religion; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 41 words


The church will be open from 9am to 10am on September 11 for quiet reflection
and the lighting of candles.  A Eucharist service will start at 10am.

All are welcome at the service, which will be conducted by the Rev Paul Massey.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Nottingham Evening Post

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           September 6, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACK ON MAN, 35

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 77 words


A 35-YEAR-OLD man was attacked in the street by an assailant who demanded cash.

The victim, who suffered minor injuries, was attacked in Excalibur Drive,
Thornhill, on September 2, at 11.30pm. The attacker is described as white, 19 to
23-years-old, with a rounded face, dark eyebrows, dyed light blond hair, of
medium build and wearing a black t-shirt with a white logo.

Anyone who can help police is asked to call Rumney CID on 029 20222111.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 6, 2002

Minute Silence To Mark Terror Attacks

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 296 words


A minute-long silence will be held to mark the first anniversary of the
September 11 terrorist attacks during a service at St Paul's Cathedral, the
Government said yesterday.  The Department for Culture, Media and Sport
announced that the service would start at 1.15pm and the minute silence would
begin at 1.46pm, which marks the moment the World Trade Centre attacks began.
Relatives of British victims will be at the service as well as senior government
figures and representatives of charities, a spokesman said.

Meanwhile, Britain's firefighters will also marking the first anniversary of the
terrorist atrocities. Hundreds plan to gather outside their stations to observe
a minute's silence at 1.46pm in honour of the 343 New York firefighters who died
in the attacks. Pictures of the heroic firefighters running into the twin
towers, rescuing those trapped inside and working tirelessly through the
devastation to try to find survivors became one of the enduring images of the
tragedies.

Workers across the UK are expected to observe the silence, with offices,
factories, shops and at least some television and radio stations falling quiet,
including BBC1 and ITV.

The Government's announcement may lead to similar arrangements in British
airports, Whitehall departments, schools, courts and churches.

Dignitaries including the Prince of Wales, the US ambassador to Britain William
Farish and senior members of the Government will attend the service of
remembrance. About 2,000 people have been invited to the memorial service.

Several City firms - many of which lost workers in the World Trade Centre
collapse - announced plans for their own services and the London Stock Exchange
will observe a two-minute silence starting at 1.46pm.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 7, 2002

Silence for terror attacks

SECTION: News, Pg.3

LENGTH: 51 words


B&NES: A one-minute silence will be held throughout the district on September 11
to remember those killed in the terrorist attacks on New York.

Chairman of Bath and North East Somerset Council, Cllr Del Herod, will lead the
silence at 1.46pm, the time the first plane hit the World Trade Center.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 7, 2002, Saturday

FEAR 'LONERS' WILL MARK MILESTONE WITH ATTACK;
 WARNING AS ANNIVERARY OF TWIN TOWERS TERROR STRIKE LOOMS

BYLINE: Nick Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 540 words

HIGHLIGHT: MOMENT OF IMPACT: A hijacked plane heading for the South Tower of the
World Trade Center is very fresh in the public mind


ANTI-TERROR chiefs yesterday warned the public to be alert to the threat of lone
bombers and gunmen who could strike on the anniversary of September 11.

They said there was no specific threat to the UK but warned that lone terrorists
unconnected to al Qaida could strike in a bid to exploit the anniversary of the
terror attacks in New York and Washington.

Detectives said individual terrorists may see the anniversary as offering a
"world stage" for their own cause.

Mobile armed road blocks will be in place around London as a first point of
defence on the anniversary, and the public were warned to be on a state of
"alert but not alarm".

Head of Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Squad Assistant Commissioner David Veness
said everyone should be "vigilant" and look out for anything unusual which they
should report.

He added: "We shouldn't just think about the ghastly spectacular attacks that
have already taken place but also the range of possibilities that smaller groups
and individuals may use. There could be a range of terrorist methodology. There
may be individuals who think here is an anniversary which is a world stage in
terms of publicity and for their own reasons they might attack.

"We shouldn't under-estimate these individuals."

He said incidents in recent months had shown individuals did have the potential
to cause serious public harm.

"An individual is not incapable of causing serious impact and that is something
we are alert to. Our intention is to enhance the deterrent," he said.

Mr Veness warned that the general threat applied not just to September 11 but
would be "long term" and there must be no complacency after the anniversary was
passed.

The counter-terrorism operation was better prepared than ever before following a
year of unprecedented effort, he added.

In recent weeks businesses in the City of London have been extensively briefed
in preparation for the anniversary.

There has also been close co-operation between Scotland Yard, British Transport
Police, the Ministry of Defence Police, the City of London Police, Royal Parks
Police and forces nationwide.

Security will be in place for memorial events and Jewish holidays which fall
around September 11.

Mr Veness said: "A tremendous amount of partnership has been invested at the
local level to ensure community safety prevails."

He said while public attention was on international terrorism the threat from
Irish Rrepublican dissidents was "not forgotten".

Mr Veness said that, since September 11, work had been done on the threat posed
by suicide bombers. Detectives were working closely with colleagues in other
countries with more experience of the threat.

He said: "It would be misleading to say that the next international terrorist
attack in London is going to be a suicide attack."

It "could be" but it could also be a "traditional" gun, bomb or hijack attempt,
he said.

"What we are suggesting is there is particular concern or vulnerability over
this period which includes individuals attacking alone. That's where the public
can play a helpful role in helping us."

Since September 11 last year, Scotland Yard has received 8,000 requests for
assistance from the FBI.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 7, 2002, Saturday

GERMAN COPS FOIL PLANNED TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 318 words


GERMAN police last night arrested a couple suspected of plotting to blow up
American military targets.

The Turkish man and his fiancee, a civilian worker at a US base, were said to
have been planning bombings to coincide with the anniversary of the September 11
attacks.

Cops who raided their home near Heidelberg, where the US Army Europe HQ is
located, found 300lb of chemicals and five pipe bombs.

The 25-year-old man had a picture of Osama bin Laden at his flat, in addition to
Islamic literature and a book about building bombs.

The police chief of Baden-Wuerttemberg state, Thomas Schaeuble, said: "We
suspect they intended to mount a bomb attack against military installations and
the city of Heidelberg.

"The suspect is a strict Moslem who hates Americans and Jews."

His 23-year-old fiancee worked at a supermarket at a US installation in
Heidelberg, where some 16,000 American soldiers, family members and civilian
workers are stationed.

US officials said the woman had dual American and German citizenship.

The man worked at a chemical warehouse in nearby Karlsruhe.

The couple were arrested in their apartment in Walldorf, about six miles south
of Heidelberg.

US Army Europe spokesman Sandy Goss said he had no details about a possible
target.

"All I know is there were two people arrested and we're monitoring the situation
closely because we take all these reports seriously," Goss said.

Earlier this week, federal Interior Minister Otto Schily said German authorities
had no information on attacks planned for the anniversary of the September 11
attacks.

In a separate incident, German prosecutors confirmed that they are investigating
a 39-year-old Afghan-born man who lived in Hamburg for possible terror links.

The man was arrested in the US in mid-July.

Three of the suicide pilots in last year's terror attacks had lived in Hamburg.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                               September 8, 2002

BACK IN FEBRUARY, I MENTIONED THAT THE NIKKEI WAS TRADING AT A CRUCIAL CHART
LEVEL, IN THAT IT WAS TESTING THE LOWS HIT IN THE WAKE OF LAST SEPTEMBER'S
TERRORIST ATTACKS.

BYLINE: Bill McNamara;

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 303 words


Back in February, I mentioned that the Nikkei was trading at a crucial chart
level, in that it was testing the lows hit in the wake of last September's
terrorist attacks.

At that time I discussed the possibility that the Nikkei had the potential to
fall a lot further if there was a decisive break of the September lows - but
that didn't happen and the market rallied hard thereafter.

In fact, it was a classic case of a previous low acting as support and then
becoming a springboard for further upside.

The recent price action, however, prompts a return to the Tokyo market, not
least because there has been a return to those lows and, once again, investors
are questioning whether the Nikkei is about to head lower or whether there will
be a bounce from these levels.

The prognosis so far is not good for the bulls. On Tuesday, there was a heavy
sell-off that took the index smartly through the recent low of 9501, as well as
the February closing low of 9420, and by Wednesday it had slumped to 9075, an
18-year low. What is interesting about this decline is that it was being
forecast in the chart. Between the end of July and late August, the index had
been trading in a range, and the result was the formation of a pattern known as
a "flag".

Technicians will be aware that flags can be bearish or bullish, but this one was
bearish, even before the market broke lower. It is also worth mentioning that
flags are consolidation phases within a decline and usually point to a
resumption of the prevailing trend, with the magnitude of the fall prior to the
flag likely to be repeated after it has confirmed.

That being the case, the chart is suggesting that the Nikkei might not come to
rest until it has paid a visit to 8000.

Bill McNamara is director of private client broking at Durlacher


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Sunday Business Group

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 8, 2002

WAR ON TERROR MUSLIMS JOIN ATTACKS ON EXTREMISTS' SICK ADVERT FOR CONFERENCE;
FURY AT POSTER THAT GLOATS OVER SEPTEMBER 11

BYLINE: By Keith Perry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 583 words


ISLAMIC extremists have caused uproar by putting up sick posters showing planes
crashing into the World Trade Center under the headline "A Towering Day In
History".

Al-Muhajiroun, a group which supports Osama bin Laden, has been condemned by
police and devout Muslims for placing the gloating posters in city centres.

They are being used to advertise a conference on the anniversary of the
September 11 disaster.

The posters have appeared in the Saltley area of Birmingham and many have also
been plastered on walls, bus shelters and lamp posts in Blackburn.

They parody the Guy Fawkes rhyme: "Remember, Remember the 11th of September" and
give a mobile phone number for further details of the gathering. A group
spokesman said the conference is due to be held in London to discuss the causes,
effects and significance of the attacks and where the Muslim community stands.

The group's website proclaims it is the "voice, the eyes and the ears of
Muslims".

It also contains news footage of the planes hitting the towers. Police made
several arrests when the group held a conference in Trafalgar Square on August
25. Demonstrators were arrested for calling Tony Blair and George Bush murderers
and shouting Osama Bin Laden's name.

Last night Iqbal Makda, secretary of the Little Harwood mosque in Blackburn,
said he was disgusted by the posters.

He said: "They are so stupid and insensitive. We should feel sorrowful at a time
like this. If you had a relative who died on September 11, how would you feel?

"These are just a minority fundamentalist group trying to stir things up. I am
totally against what they are saying and don't approve of it at all."

Abdul Hamed Qureshi, secretary of Lancashire Council of Mosques, said the
London-based group did not reflect the views of all Muslims.

He said: "We totally condemn what happened on that day and it is a general
condemnation. But also we don't condone the American actions that followed
afterwards."

Muslim leader Abu Khadeejah, who last week staged a fundamental Islamic event in
Birmingham, also attacked the posters.

He said: "Al-Muhajiroun are an extreme minority that feed on people with little
knowledge of Islam and who feel alienated from society as a whole.

To them it is all about spreading hate and destruction."

A Blackburn police spokesman said: "We are aware of the posters and we are
trying to find out the content of the conference on September 11. But they are
extremely insensitive to say the least. It is not illegal to paste these things
up but if they are causing damage to property, then we can look at it."

Last month AlMuhajiroun posted a photograph of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman
on its website to score political points in an antiBritish propaganda war,
claiming that too-liberal UK law protects evil child abusers.

When Al-Muhajiroun staged its last rally in London, the speakers included
hardline Muslim leader Sheikh Abu Hamza, who has been accused of telling
supporters that murder, bank robbery and looting are "legitimate weapons"
against Islam's enemies.

Al-Muhajiroun leader Omar Bakri Mohammed claims the September 11 conference will
be peaceful.

He said: "I condemn all sorts of violence, but we need to take lessons from what
happened and not keep mourning."

The 44-year-old Syrian-born "sheikh" openly backs Bin Laden's philosophy.

He has also been investigated by Scotland Yard for inciting racial hatred after
comments about Jews.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                               September 8, 2002

Oil is the great unknown. We've not paid yet for September 11;
ONE YEAR ON The terrorist attacks on New York and Washington were shattering
news for the world economy, but . . .

BYLINE: Ben Laurance

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1911 words



EVERYONE remembers where they were when they heard the news. As with the
assassination of Kennedy almost four decades earlier, last September's terrorist
attacks on New York and Washington made us feel that the Earth had suddenly
lurched, violently and sickeningly, into a different and unstable orbit.

As Niall FitzGerald of Unilever vividly recounts below, for a moment just a
moment we thought that the world might even be ending. (Indeed, for FitzGerald,
only a single phone message saved the life of a member of his family).

Of course the world didn't end. The most powerful financial centre on the planet
suffered a devastating blow to its very heart, yet within less than a week Wall
Street was back in action.

Business carried on. The global economy didn't grind to a halt.

Yes, Afghanistan was flattened (again). And 12 months on, the attacks on the US
are repeatedly cited to justify a new Anglo-American assault in the Middle East.

So was September 11 really a turning point? On September 12, was the world set
on a course profoundly different from the one that we should have foreseen on
September 10?

Without question, the global economy has slowed. Economic growth this year in
the eurozone is likely to be little more than one-third of the level seen in
2000. Two years ago, the British economy grew by three per cent; this year, the
rate will fail to reach two per cent.

And the US, having enjoyed storming growth during the latter half of the
Nineties with national output cantering ahead by an average four per cent a
year, was slowing markedly in 2001 even before the attacks. The American economy
grew in 2001 only because of increased state spending; the private sector
actually contracted.

In truth, the global economic picture is probably little worse now than it would
have been had last year's terrorist attacks never happened.

The internet bubble had been deflating for 18 months beforehand: it is
two-and-a-half years this month since the Nasdaq index of technology shares hit
its peak. US consumers were fast approaching the end of the cul-de-sac of
borrowing to finance their insatiable desire to spend.

The boom didn't end on September 11; it was ending well before that.

FURTHERMORE, just as the American consumer's desire to consume powered growth on
the way up, so a new caution about spending could aggravate matters on the way
down.

Americans' spending habits reflect how rich they feel, not just income.

When shares and house prices were booming, they were happy to spend, spend,
spend. Now, that process threatens to lurch into reverse.

Share prices are emphatically not booming: they are scarcely higher than they
were in the immediate, panicky aftermath of September 11.

True, US shoppers have proved remarkably resilient so far: in the words of one
commentator, while the country prepares for war, Americans go to the shopping
mall.

But if we believe surveys on how consumers feel about the outlook rather than
their spending habits at the moment that resilience could be about to crumble.
Rebuilding personal and corporate balance sheets, saving more and spending less,
would dent growth. Lower growth would depress the value of assets such as
shares. And lower asset prices would make people even more inclined to save, not
spend.

Perhaps the most profound shift induced by September 11 has been a new
respectability gained by big government. True, few politicians will admit it.

Certainly George W.

Bush won't. But the attacks have given the staunchly rightwing Bush a remarkably
convenient excuse to indulge in some very old fashioned Keynesian pump-priming
by increasing government spending on defence, which has helped to sustain
activity. So far, even Bush hasn't dreamed up a way of privatising the war on
terrorism.

Furthermore, no one enthuses as they might have done a year ago about
contracting out public security jobs. On both sides of the Atlantic, there is a
growing, if grudging, acceptance that the state should be allowed to infringe
our civil liberties by peering over our shoulders at emails, for example if that
helps curb terrorism.

And make no mistake, if growth in Europe remains sluggish, big government (for
which read big government spending) might find new converts on this side of the
Atlantic, too.

Of course, eurozone countries are, in theory, constrained in how much their
spending can exceed taxation if they are to remain within the limits laid down
by the Stability and Growth Pact. (Bill Martin, economic sage at UBS Global
Asset Management in London prefers the term Instability and Not-much-growth
pact.) The pact is meant to limit governments' profligacy: after all, it's not
just their own country's currency they're dealing with.

But one can confidently predict that governments across Europe will be looking
at every conceivable way to prop up their economies' performance.

For those who remember the Seventies, some things from the current landscape
feel familiar: public sector labour unrest, Green Goddesses being dusted off.
Just one thing is missing soaring oil prices.

After September 11, the price of oil spiked up briefly to nudge $ 30 a barrel.
Two months later, it fell below $ 18. Recently, amid hawkish talk about Iraq, it
has topped $ 28.

AS we look ahead, the oil price is the great unknown, the profoundly unfunny
joker in the pack. Since the Second World War, every period of strong expansion
has been achieved on the back of cheap oil. And every sudden and sustained rise
in the price of crude has brought growth shuddering to a halt.

Immediately after September 11, Saudi Arabia went out of its way to reassure the
market by pledging to open the tap on its huge reserves if supplies from
elsewhere were to suffer large-scale disruption.

The Saudis no longer feel quite so benevolent towards the US. They have made it
abundantly clear that they utterly oppose the idea of an American assault on
Iraq. The risk of a devastating increase in the price of oil is far greater now
than it was after September 11.

If Iraq is attacked and that provokes retaliation from other Middle Eastern oil
producers by withholding supplies, the effect on the West could be devastating.

The terrorist atrocities of September 11 would finally have their economic
impact 12 months on.

One horrific day, eight enduring memories of the carnage

NIALL FITZGERALD chairman, Unilever

I was in Spain and I was going to the swimming pool when I switched on the TV
news. I called to Ingrid, my partner, and told her to come and see what was
happening, and just as she came into the room the second plane went in.

At first, I thought it was a rerun of what had already happened, then I realised
there really was a second crash. At that point I thought, "God, the world is
ending''. My son was in New York. We couldn't get through until the evening.
Then I discovered he had been due at a meeting in the South Tower at 8.30 that
morning.

Someone had phoned the previous evening and left a message on his answer machine
to cancel the meeting. To this day he doesn't know who left that message. I said
it was his guardian angel.

SIR MICHAEL BISHOP chairman, bmi British Midland

I was in a conference room in the Marriott Hotel in Birmingham at a meeting with
our executives. The phone rang and my operations director told me to watch a TV.
We commandeered one and halted the meeting. My most abiding image was the very
graphic demonstration of power how planes could bring down two enormous
buildings.

MATT BARRETT chief executive, Barclays

I was with all my senior colleagues at an offsite meeting of the bank's
executive committee in Godalming, Surrey. The news came through from Tom Kalaris
who heads up Barclays Capital in New York where we have a substantial office
just blocks away from the World Trade Centre. Tom was still in our building at
222 Broadway and the events were clearly visible from the office window. We
terminated the meeting and returned to London. My first thoughts were for our
staff all 1,000 were evacuated safely and for family members and many friends
who live and work in the city.

PETER ELLWOOD group chief executive, Lloyds TSB

I was hosting a Lloyds TSB Charitable Foundation Trustees' lunch here at 71
Lombard Street. Being at the heart of the City while watching the heart of
another being destroyed was a haunting feeling. After the initial shock at the
personal tragedies unfolding, my next thought was to gather my crisis management
team together. I think the events of that day and the aftermath have made
everyone re-evaluate what's important and to make sure that every day is truly
valued. I've always been a believer in the benefits of getting the right
worklife balance and September 11 certainly made many of my peers and colleagues
in the City review their priorities.

DAVID MICHELS chief executive, Hilton Group

I was in a Hilton Hotels Corporation board meeting in Los Angeles when I heard.

I knew right away that something on that scale would have a profound effect on
our sector and while there would be recovery, it would take some time.

Michels, trapped in the United States because all civil aircraft were grounded,
hired a car and drove to Las Vegas to indulge his passion for gambling before
catching a flight home the following weekend.

SIR RICHARD BRANSON founder and chairman, Virgin Group

I was in Brussels about to address a European Union inquiry on block exemption
for European car manufacturers. As I was about to start my withering attack on
the vested interests in front of me, someone passed a note to the chairman, who
looked up with an ashen face and announced there had been a terrorist attack in
New York that involved a number of aircraft.

He asked me if I wished to continue.

None of us knew how serious things were, but they did not sound good.

There was concern that the EU building could be a target. None the less I
decided to carry on, deliver the speech and answer questions from the MEPs,
knowing full well that everyone's mind would be on New York.

PAUL ROY co-president of global markets and investment banking, Merrill Lynch

I was in my New York office, one side of which looked out on the twin towers. We
heard the first bang and saw one of the towers on fire. When we saw the second
plane go in I knew immediately it was a terrorist attack. We were evacuated and
went up the west side. I just remember seeing scores and scores of police and
firemen all rushing in the opposite direction towards the towers, which I felt
were just about to collapse. It's my overriding memory all those people heading
for almost certain death.

RICHARD THOMASON chief executive, Jarvis Hotels

I was flying back from Miami to London and early in the morning we flew over New
York the pilot pointed it out. The Virgin flight got into London.

I made the decision to stay up all day and go to bed at normal time to avoid jet
lag. I went home, turned on the TV and thought I was watching a movie.

It's a cliche now but I really thought that.

There was about 24 hours of coming to terms with it, and the next day I was in
with the team working out a short-term strategy, what the effect would be. We
didn't realise that London would be as busy as it was. But you do realise when
world events are going to have an effect on your business.


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 8, 2002, Sunday

9/11: ONE YEAR ON: SICK;
 FANATICS MEET TO 'CELEBRATE' TWIN TOWERS TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Dominic Turnbull, Nyra Mahmood And Andy Gardner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1380 words

HIGHLIGHT: VENUE: Finsbury Park Mosque; 'POSITIVE OUTCOMES': Sheikh Omar Bakri
and the chilling poster


MUSLIM fanatics are staging a sick event to celebrate the first anniversary of
the September 11 terror attacks.

Posters advertising a conference, which have been obtained by the Sunday Mirror,
boast the slogan, "September 11: A Towering Day in History".

They vividly depict the United Airlines Flight 175 crashing into the South Tower
of the World Trade Centre at 9.56am.

Giant clouds of black smoke are seen billowing from the North Tower, where more
than 2,000 people had already been killed or were about to die.

The posters also taunt victims of the tragedy with the rhyme, "Remember,
Remember the 11th of September".

They are the work of the hardline extremist group Al-Muhajiroun which is
organising the conference at Finsbury Park Mosque at the same time as the Queen
attends a memorial service at St Paul's Cathedral to remember the 3,000 killed
in the hijackings.

The posters initially appeared in Stepney, East London, and yesterday dozens
more were stuck up in Blackburn and Birmingham, which both have large Muslim
communities.

Last night as victims' relatives and moderate Muslims condemned the posters Al
-Muhajiroun leader Sheikh Omar Bakri continued to gloat.

Incredibly he claimed there had been "70 positive outcomes" of September 11,
including a huge surge in converts to Islam worldwide; proof that the US is a
dictatorship not a democracy and an understanding of the "corrupting effect" of
capitalism.

The Sheikh will be one of the keynote speakers at the rally. He said the US
reaction, including the invasion of Afghanistan, revealed it was "at war with
Muslims everywhere".

"This is a positive outcome. Muslims now know who the enemy is. It is now black
and white."

He claimed the meeting was a "serious" look at the aftermath of the attacks. He
said: "We are not celebrating the deaths of these people. We regret their
deaths, as we regret the deaths of all innocent people. We are there to debate
the lessons of September 11."

Bakri said he did not think the posters were insensitive and denied they would
cause offence to the families of victims.

But condemnation was swift from relatives and friends of the 87 British victims
who died in the attacks.

Roz South, who runs a memorial fund for Robert Eaton, 37, who died on the 105th
tower of North Tower, said: "Most people will find this abhorrent. It is quite
sickening that this group has chosen the anniversary for a conference of this
sort.

"They are using the date as a propaganda tool to publicise their views. It's
horrible, irrespective of the rights and wrongs of the cause."

Susan Greer, wife of Twin Towers hero Rick Rescorla who died while helping
others to escape, said: "I am disgusted by this news - but not surprised. This
is a small group of extremists, but it is this sort of thinking that can lead to
evil. The sort of evil that changed my life for ever a year ago."

Organisers of the conference had to make 11th-hour changes to their plans after
members of the "free-thinking" Ethical Society, who were to host the meeting at
Conway Hall in Central London, had a change of heart.

It will now be held at the Finsbury Park Mosque run by controversial claw
-handed cleric Sheikh Abu Hamza.

The meeting comes as intelligence sources have revealed that a total of 36 al
-Qaeda-linked Islamic extremists based in Britain are currently under police
surveillance, amid fear they may be plotting a terrorist strike in the UK. The
group, many of whom are believed to have links to Al-Muhajiroun, are described
as "willing to get involved in attacks" on behalf of al-Qaeda.

Police have adopted the "risk management" approach because they do not have the
evidence to arrest them. But by keeping the individuals under surveillance,
security agencies believe they will be able to assess the threat posed by al
-Qaeda.

Police and MI5 agents also believe that around 600 British-based Muslims
attended al-Qaeda training camps in Afghanistan and North-West Pakistan in the
run-up to September 11. They also conclude that the UK-based Muslims helped
bankroll the terrorist training.

At Wednesday's meeting Bakri will warn Tony Blair that Britain faces terror
attacks if war is declared on Iraq.

Syrian-born Bakri, 43 - who claimed political asylum after arriving in Britain
in 1986 - has vowed to turn the UK into a Muslim state. He once claimed: "I want
to see the flag of Islam raised in 10 Downing Street."

Bakri boasts close links with radical Muslim cleric Sheikh Abu Hamza.

Egyptian Hamza, who has a hook in place of the left hand he lost while fighting
in Afghanistan during the 80s, operates from the Finsbury Park Mosque.

Feroz Abassi, the London Muslim held by the US at Camp X-Ray, regularly
worshipped at the mosque.

He also built up close links with Abu Qatada, the Muslim cleric who fled from
his West London home late last year after being accused by the US, Spain, France
and Algeria as the key European figure in the September 11 attacks.

At an Al-Muhajiroun rally held in central London earlier this summer Bakri read
out a defiant e-mail which he claimed Qatada had posted on an Arabic chatroom.

This week's rally is expected to attract 1,800 supporters from across Britain,
Europe and Muslim countries.

Major speakers will include Sajeel Abu Ibraheem, a leader of the Khilafah
movement in Pakistan, which has close links to Al-Muhajiroun. The group has
called for a Jihad or holy war to overturn Pakistan's rulers for "non
-implementation of Islamic law".

But moderate Muslim groups were quick to condemn the conference.

Birmingham-based fundamental Muslim leader Abu Khadeejah, said: "The Al
Muhajiroun conference will be about rejoicing and praising what took place on
September 11. Al-Muhajiroun are an extreme minority that feed on people with
little knowledge of Islam. To them it is all about spreading hate and
destruction."

Father-of-six Bakri - dubbed the Ayatollah of Tottenham - will be joined at the
event by his key lieutenants Anjem Choudrey, Iftikhar Ali, Omar Brooks and Abdul
Rahman Saleem.

Choudrey last year issued a fatwah - death warrant - against Pakistan President
General Pervez Musharraf after he backed the US.

Brooks, 27, a fibre optical engineer, was arrested last month on suspicion of
inciting racial hatred after chanting Osama bin Laden's name at an Al
-Muhajiroun rally in Trafalgar Square.

The father-of-seven also said: "Osama bin Laden is not a terrorist. Tony Blair
is a terrorist. George Bush is a terrorist."

Saleem, also known as Abu Yahya, has boasted of undergoing military training in
Afghanistan.

In an interview with the Sunday Mirror last year the father-of-two from Essex
claimed: "What has happened in America can happen here - absolutely."

Al-Muhajiroun, which means The Emigrants, was founded by Bakri after he led a
breakaway from another hard-line Muslim group, Hizb ut-Tahrir.

The group, which operates in North London, is dedicated to establishing Britain
as a Muslim country.

Since 1998 13 members of Al-Muhajiroun have been arrested by detectives for a
variety of offences. But only three Al-Muhajiroun figures have ever been
convicted. And just one of those convictions related directly to the group's
racist activities.

Last month Al-Muhajiroun sparked fury by staging a demonstration in Trafalgar
Square. Two members were arrested for alleged incitement to racial hatred.

Next Sunday the hardline Muslim group Hizb ut-Tahrir - which Bakri left to found
Al-Muhajiroun - will stage a rally in East London.

Last week security sources revealed that around 20 Islamic extremists living in
Britain had been arrested for minor offences in the run-up to the anniversary of
the US terror attacks.

Insiders said the initiative was designed to take the hard-liners "off the
streets" in the run-up to September 11.

-POPE John Paul yesterday warned that injustice and oppression can lead
desperate people into terrorism, urging the world to address the "underlying
causes" of hatred and violence.

He stressed that nothing could justify terrorism or other violent behaviour, but
that "the recruitment of terrorists is more easily achieved in areas where human
rights are trampled upon".

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 8, 2002, Sunday

SICK;
 POSTER 'CELEBRATES' WTC TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Dominic Turnbull, Nyra Mahmood And Andy Gardner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 448 words

HIGHLIGHT: MEETING: Finsbury Park Mosque TRIUMPHANT: Sheikh Omar Bakri


MUSLIM fanatics are staging a sick event to celebrate the first anniversary of
the September 11 terror attacks.

Posters advertising a conference, which have been obtained by the Sunday Mirror,
bear the slogan, "September 11: A Towering Day in History".

They show United Airlines Flight 175 crashing into the South Tower of the World
Trade Centre.

Clouds of black smoke billow from the North Tower, where more than 2,000 people
had already been killed or were about to die. The posters also taunt victims of
the tragedy with the rhyme, "Remember, Remember the 11th of September".

They are the work of the extremist group Al-Muhajiroun which is organising the
conference at Finsbury Park Mosque at the same time as the Queen attends a
memorial service at St Paul's Cathedral for the 3,000 people killed in the
attacks.

The posters initially appeared in Stepney, East London, and yesterday dozens
more were stuck up in Blackburn and Birmingham, which both have large Muslim
communities.

Last night as victims' relatives and moderate Muslims condemned the posters, Al
-Muhajiroun leader Sheikh Omar Bakri - nicknamed the Ayatollah of Tottenham -
continued to gloat.

He claimed there had been "70 positive outcomes" of September 11, including a
huge surge in converts to Islam worldwide; proof that the US is a dictatorship
not a democracy and an understanding of the "corrupting effect" of capitalism.
The Sheikh will be one of the keynote speakers at the rally. He said the US
reaction, including the invasion of Afghanistan, revealed it was "at war with
Muslims everywhere". "This is a positive outcome. Muslims now know who the enemy
is. It is now black and white."

He claimed the meeting was a "serious" look at the aftermath of the attacks. He
said: "We are not celebrating the deaths of these people. We regret their
deaths, as we regret the deaths of all innocent people. We are there to debate
the lessons of September 11."

Bakri, 43 - who claimed political asylum after arriving in Britain in 1986 -
denied the posters would offend the families of victims. But condemnation was
swift from relatives and friends of the 67 British victims who died in the
attacks.

Roz South, who runs a memorial fund for Robert Eaton, 37, who died on the 105th
floor of North Tower, said: "Most people will find this abhorrent.

Susan Greer, wife of Twin Towers hero Rick Rescorla who died while helping
others to escape, said: "I am disgusted by this."

The meeting comes as intelligence sources have revealed that 36 al-Qaeda-linked
extremists based in Britain are under police surveillance, amid fears they may
be plotting a terrorist strike in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          $%Investment Adviser adviser

                             September 9, 2002 2002

City on alert over terrorist attacks attacks

SECTION: ISSN. 1361-1593 1593

LENGTH: 253 words words


THE Citys leading financial services firms are on high alert ahead of the
anniversary of 11 September.

Scotland Yard has briefed leading firms on security measures they should adopt
for the anniversary of the terrorist attacks on the US.  us.

Police are advising companies not to shut for the day, but say large
corporations, especially those with American links, should have plans in place
to deal with any attack.

Companies are being warned to review their contingency plans and test them to
make sure they work.

The FSA recently opened a nerve centre to keep the financial heart of London
ticking in case of a major terrorist attack on the City.

The bunker is within walking distance of the FSAs offices in Canary Wharf and
can cater for up to 300 staff. The centre will be linked to back-up offices at
35 of the UKs largest banks and financial services companies.

A report by the FSA revealed that 4000 small and medium-sized firms have no
contingency plans if disaster strikes.

John Fryer, head of the FSAs press office, said: "Our business contingency plan
is not designed for anniversaries but everyone should have a plan if part of
their system fails."

Tracey Mullins, director of public affairs at the Association of Independent
Financial Advisers, said contingency plans were business decisions to be taken
by individual firms.

Ms Mullins said: "Most IFAs are small businesses but it is up to them to
introduce contingency plans, especially if it is not a regulatory requirement."
requirement."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002 2002

LANGUAGE: English english

PUB-TYPE: Magazine magazine

            Copyright 2002 Financial Times Business Limited limited

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 9, 2002

'No action not an option';
 International News, War on terrorism, WAR TALK: case for attack on Iraq
reinforced by weapons report

BYLINE: John Deane ;Chris Moncrieff PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 529 words


THE case for action to tackle Saddam Hussein's programmes to develop weapons of
mass destruction was expected to be reinforced today with a new report on the
Iraqi leader's destructive capacity.

The new document on Saddam's capabilities was being published by the London
-based International Institute for Strategic Studies.

Over the weekend, the urgency of taking action against Saddam was underlined by
US President George W Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair at their talks at the
President's Camp David retreat in Maryland.

Both men argued that doing nothing about Saddam's weapons programmes was not an
option for the international community.

In another sign of the increasing pace of events, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon
was today flying to the US for a six-day visit which will include talks with his
"hawkish" counterpart Donald Rumsfeld on Wednesday, the first anniversary of the
September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.

Mr Hoon was due to deliver a speech at Louisville University in Kentucky tonight
and he will attend a memorial event at the Pentagon - one of the terrorists'
targets a year ago - on Wednesday.

The threat posed by Iraq's weapons stockpiles and the need to tackle it will
feature heavily both in his speech and in his talks with Mr Rumsfeld.

After his weekend discussions with Mr Bush, the prime minister spoke of the
"horrendous consequences if rogue states with brutal regimes like Iraq used
their nuclear, biological and chemical capability".

Mr Blair argued that doing nothing about Saddam was not an option.

He said: "We cannot just turn away and say this is an issue we are not going to
be bothered with because that would be irresponsible."

The Government is due to publish within the next couple of weeks a dossier of
evidence against Saddam which Mr Blair claims will demonstrate that this is a
"real and serious issue".

Another study, by the Centre for Strategic and International Studies, which has
been read by President Bush and Mr Blair, catalogues how Saddam has amassed
hundreds of tons of deadly VX nerve gas, sarin, mustard gas, anthrax, aflatoxin
- which induces aggressive liver cancer - and botulinum - which creates lethal
botulism - in missile warheads.

Within the next two to three weeks, Mr Blair will also have discussions on Iraq
with the chairmen and senior members of the Commons defence and foreign affairs
select committees.

Mr Blair is expected to receive a muted reception when he addresses the TUC in
Blackpool tomorrow, the eve of the September 11 anniversary.

He is expected to use that platform to underline that the Iraqi leader cannot be
allowed to flout UN resolutions on arms inspections "year after year after
year".

But he will be confronted by sceptical delegates. TUC general secretary John
Monks warned that unilateral action was not an option as far as the unions were
concerned.

GMB leader John Edmonds warned: "This is not a time for cowboy tactics. It is a
time for reflection."

There was little to suggest that Mr Blair intends to comply as calls continued
for Parliament to be recalled from its summer recess.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 09, 2002, Monday

Al-Qa'eda 'may hit nuclear target' September 11 'masterminds' claim bin Laden is
alive and tell of plans for more terror attacks. Sean O'Neill reports

BYLINE: BY SEAN O'NEILL

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 750 words

AL-QA'EDA is continuing to plan suicide terror attacks on the West and may
select nuclear targets for its next operation, the planners of the September 11
atrocities have claimed.

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and Ramzi Binalshibh, senior figures in Osama bin Laden's
terrorist organisation, told al-Jazeera television that they were the
masterminds behind the attacks in New York and Washington that killed about
3,000 people.

They referred to the day as "Holy Tuesday".

The two men said that bin Laden was alive but Mohammed made what he called "a
slip of the tongue" by referring to the al-Qa'eda leader in the past tense.

The detailed confirmation of the terror network's involvement in the attacks was
given to Youri Fouda, an investigative journalist with al-Jazeera.

He was taken, blindfolded, to a house in the Pakistani city of Karachi where he
conducted interviews with Mohammed and Binalshibh over a period of 48 hours. The
men kept all the footage of their conversations and later released only audio
tapes to Mr Fouda. Extracts from the interviews will be broadcast, with English
subtitles, by al Jazeera on Thursday.

Khalid, 38, a Kuwaiti, introduced himself to Mr Fouda as head of al-Qa'eda's
military committee. Binalshibh, 30, a Yemeni, was the flatmate of Mohammed Atta,
leader of the September 11 hijackers.

Khalid, who was indicted by a New York court in 1996 for a plot to blow up US
airliners, said al-Qa'eda began planning "a martyrdom operation inside America"
two and a half years before September 11.

"We first thought of striking at a couple of nuclear targets but decided against
it for fear it would go out of control," he said.

"It was eventually decided to leave out nuclear targets - for now.

"The attacks were designed to cause as many deaths as possible and havoc and to
be a big slap for America on American soil. We were never short of potential
martyrs. Indeed we have a department called the Department of Martyrs."

He said that the department would remain active "as long as we are in jihad
against the infidels and the Zionists.

"We have scores of volunteers. Our problem at the time was to select suitable
people who are familiar with the West."

Binalshibh disclosed that he had wanted to be one of the hijackers but could not
get a visa to enter the US. Mr Fouda said Binalshibh appeared "desperately sad"
that he had not participated in the attacks.

He lived with Atta in Hamburg where the hijacker studied from 1992. Throughout
that time he was an al-Qa'eda "sleeper".

Atta was activated during 1999 and invited to a planning meeting in the autumn
of that year in Kandahar, the Afghan city where the Taliban had its power base.

Two of the other hijack pilots - Marwan al-Shehhi and Ziad Jarrah - also
attended the planning meeting.

Four "reconnaissance units" were sent to the US over the next six months, either
in pairs or as individuals. Atta returned to Germany, reporting his passport as
stolen to prevent his Pakistani visas being detected.

In the summer of 2000, Atta entered the US and began flying lessons in Venica,
Florida. The three other terrorists chosen to pilot the hijacked planes were
also learning to fly in the US.

In spring 2001 the Saudi recruits who were to provide the "muscle" for the
hijack operation were in training in Afghanistan. They knew they were to take
part in a martyrdom mission but were not told the details.

That July Atta flew to Madrid for a meeting with Binalshibh and other al-Qa'eda
operatives.

Atta was given the final say on the targets for, and timing of, the attacks. He
communicated details of the attacks to Binalshibh in coded e-mails and messages
passed through internet chatrooms in which he posed as someone contacting a
girlfriend in Germany.

The intended target of the airliner that crashed near Pittsburgh, after
passengers overwhelmed the hijackers, was Capitol Hill.

Binalshibh was told the date of the attack in a cryptic telephone call which
woke him at 3am on Aug 29 in his flat in Hamburg.

He said of Atta: "He was unbelievable! Unbelievable! God bless his soul and put
paradise under his feet, for he is, inshallah [God willing] among the shuhadaa
[martyrs]."

After receiving the call, Binalshibh set about dismantling the al-Qa'eda cells
active in Europe and the United States. When he was satisfied his activists were
on the move, he left Germany for Pakistan.

A message was passed to bin Laden on Sept 6 that the operation would take place
five days later.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 9, 2002

G2: Terror training: Since the 60s European governments have repeatedly caved in
to hijackers. In an exclusive extract from his controversial new book,
celebrated US law professor Alan Dershowitz argues that their weakness
encouraged more terrorist attacks - and planted the seeds for September 11

BYLINE: Alan Dershowitz

SECTION: G2; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2450 words


On July 22, 1968, three armed Palestinian terrorists hijacked an Israeli
passenger airliner flying from Rome to Tel Aviv. The terrorists belonged to the
Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), one of the groups that
made up the Palestine Liberation Organisation (PLO). The hijacking marked the
advent, according to the director of the Rand Corporation's terrorism research
unit in Washington, DC, of the modern era of international terrorism.

Although this was not the first hijacking of a plane - many had been temporarily
diverted from their intended destinations in order to get the hijackers
somewhere else, generally Cuba - it was the first one designed to terrorise a
nation into changing its policy and to force world attention on a cause. The
hijacking was the first in a series of dramatic and well-coordinated attacks
planned and approved at the highest levels of the PLO. The purpose of these
hijackings was subsequently acknowledged, indeed proclaimed, by the PLO's chief
observer to the UN: to bring public attention to the Palestinian cause as an
initial step in a multifaceted programme of terror, the goal of which was the
establishment of a Palestinian state.

Success begets repetition. By the early 70s, the pattern was becoming quite
discernible. Terrorists who hijacked, blew up or otherwise attacked commercial
airliners would, if captured, quickly be released by most countries. Only Israel
would keep captured terrorists in prison for substantial terms. The message was
clear. Terrorist attacks committed outside Israel would go unpunished and would
generally achieve the desired result.

It was against this background that Palestinian terrorist organisations planned
the most dramatic act of international terrorism up until that time: the 1972
attack on the Israeli Olympic team in Munich. Based on the reaction to
international terrorism over the previous four years, the terrorists planning
the Munich operation could expect to succeed in attracting the world's attention
and be relatively certain that if any of the terrorists were captured they would
not be held for long. They could expect to be treated as heroes by supporters of
their cause, and as "official state guests" by the European governments that
held them for a brief period before sending them home.

But international reaction went beyond merely "taking note" of the Palestinian
cause. Even decent people cannot ignore indecent events. It is only natural to
talk about evil. What many in the international community did was to ascribe a
positive moral content to the evils of Palestinian terrorism. The assumption
seemed to be that any group of people willing to resort to such extreme measures
must have a just and compelling cause.

Soon afterwards, the UN granted observer status to the PLO - the first terrorist
organisation to be so honoured. Recall that all this was taking place while the
PLO was still boasting of its reliance on terrorism as its primary mechanism of
"diplomacy". Bruce Hoffman, the Rand Corporation's director of terrorism
research, saw a likely causal relation between the willingness of the
Palestinians to resort to terrorism and their acceptance by the UN: "It is
perhaps not entirely coincidental, then, that 18 months after Munich the PLO's
leader, Yasser Arafat, was invited to address the UN general assembly and
shortly afterwards the PLO was granted special observer status in that
international body. Indeed, by the end of the 70s the PLO, a non-state actor,
had formal diplomatic relations with more countries (86) than Israel (72). It is
doubtful whether the PLO could have achieved this success had it not resorted to
international terrorism."

If anyone actually believed that honouring Arafat and legitimising his terrorist
organisation would persuade them - or anyone else - to abandon terror, they were
quickly proved wrong. Within 10 days of Arafat's speeches Palestinian terrorists
hijacked a British airliner in Dubai. The plane was eventually flown to Tunisia,
where a passenger was killed. Over the half decade following the legitimisation
of Arafat and his cause, Palestinian terrorists attacked Orly airport, hijacked
a plane to Entebbe, Uganda (where Israeli commandos rescued all but three
passengers), attacked a passenger terminal at Istanbul, hijacked a Lufthansa
plane, hijacked an Israeli bus, killing 26 civilians, attacked an El Al plane in
Paris, and shot passengers in Brussels. During this same half decade, the UN
declared its first international day of solidarity with the Palestinian people.
Palestinian terrorism was working. The European policy of appeasing terrorists
and encouraging their acts continued unabated through the 80s, as did
Palestinian terrorism. Perhaps the most publicised instance of this European
"policy" of appeasing terrorists came on the heels of the hijacking of an
Italian cruise ship, the Achille Lauro. In October 1985, armed PFLP terrorists
boarded the ship as it left Alexandria, Egypt. In one of the most cowardly acts
in the history of terrorism, they murdered a Jewish-American man in a
wheelchair. Once again American plans for a rescue were thwarted by the Italian
government, whose "foreign policy required it to maintain very close relations
with the Arab states and the PLO", according to Philip Heymann, the former US
deputy attorney-general under President Clinton and author of Terrorism and
America.

The terrorists were freed, with the approval of the Italian prime minister
Bettino Craxi, who "later said somewhat implausibly (that he did not know) that
they had murdered a wheelchair-bound American, Leon Klinghoffer," Heymann wrote.
But even that absurd excuse was not available to Craxi when he once again
frustrated efforts by the US to bring the terrorists to justice. After the
hijackers were freed in Egypt, a small Egyptian plane was flying them to a
hero's welcome in another friendly Arab country. The US military intercepted the
plane in midair and forced it to land at a Nato base in Italy, where American
C-141 troop transporters were waiting to fly the terrorists to the US to stand
trial for the hijacking of the ship and the murder of Klinghoffer. But Italian
soldiers blocked the Americans from approaching the Egyptian plane. Finally,
after the Italians promised to bring the hijackers to justice, the US backed
down and the four hijackers were taken into Italian custody. Among them were two
important terrorist leaders with rivers of blood on their hands. The Italians
released them immediately. The others were tried, convicted and allowed to "
'escape' while on leave from Italian prisons", in Heymann's words. As the
Palestinian reliance on terrorism increased, most of the international community
became more - not less - supportive of the Palestinian cause.

The message being sent by the international community was unmistakable: we will
not punish you or your cause for your use of terrorism; to the contrary, we will
reward you, honour your leaders and further your cause. If this was the message
- and how can any reasonable observer deny that it was? - then what did the
international community expect the terrorists to do? If a tactic is working, why
change it, especially if the international community seems to approve of it?

The international community responded to terrorism between 1968 and 2001 by
rewarding and legitimising it, rather than punishing and condemning it. Seen in
this light, it is no wonder we had to suffer the horrors of September 11, 2001.
Those who bestowed these benefits on the Palestinians following their terrorism,
especially our European allies and the UN, made September 11 unavoidable. By
continuing to reward Palestinian terrorism even after September 11, they have
continued to make future terrorist attacks more likely.

One explanation, though certainly not a justification, for why some nations deal
with terrorism by capitulating, involves a variation on the prisoner's dilemma.
This heuristic model involves two hypothetical prisoners who are confined in
separate cells awaiting trial. If neither prisoner cooperates with the police,
they would both be better off, since there would be no direct evidence to
convict them. But if either cooperates, then the cooperator would be better off,
because he would get a deal, while the non-cooperator would be convicted and get
a harsh sentence. Since neither knows whether the other will cooperate, each
must make a decision based on speculation as to what the other will do.

I have had considerable experience with real prisoners' dilemmas, especially in
white-collar conspiracy cases involving several suspects. Although each alleged
conspirator knows that without the cooperation of one there will be no case,
none of them trust the others to stand tall against the authorities who are
offering a deal to the first cooperator. Generally, one of them breaks down and
the prosecutor gets to make his case against the others. The reason one of them
breaks down is that his lawyer tells him that experience shows that at least one
will eventually cooperate and that he is better off "winning the race to the
prosecutor's door," since the first cooperator gets the best deal and later
cooperators may get no deal at all.

How does this prisoner's dilemma relate to terrorism? Every rational nation
knows that the international community would be better off as a whole if no
nation were ever to give in to terrorists. But every nation also knows that some
nations, seeking short-term advantage, will give in. The nations that do give in
may be able to strike a deal with at least some terrorist organisations, sparing
their citizens from being targeted. In the case of Germany, the Brandt
government was even willing to participate in a staged hijacking, in which it
knew no one would be hurt, rather than risk a real hijacking that would place
its citizens at risk. Other nations have freed imprisoned terrorists, paid cash
bounties, or otherwise helped the cause of terrorists. Some have generally
refused to submit to terrorists' demands. The reality is that terrorists can
count on some countries being more willing to capitulate than others.

These capitulating countries - such as France, Germany and Italy - may in fact
be subject to more instances of conditional terrorism, such as hijackings during
which no one is hurt, if the government submits to the terrorists' demand to
release prisoners. Everyone knows that these capitulating countries will quickly
give in to the demands of the terrorists so that it is not to the terrorists'
advantage to hurt their citizens. Other countries, which have reputations as
non-capitulators, will be subject to fewer instances of pure conditional
terrorism but more instances of nonconditional violent terrorist acts, such as
blowing up airplanes, shooting passengers and destroying buildings. Some of
these violent acts will be directed against the targets of non-capitulators that
are located within the jurisdiction of the capitulators. Examples of this are
quite common and include the hijacking of the Achille Lauro containing Americans
and Jews, the blowing up of Americans in Germany, and the hijacking of American
and Israeli planes from French, Italian or Greek airports. The terrorists know
that if they are caught in a country that capitulates, they will be quickly
released, even if a noncapitulating country is seeking their extradition. This
cynical phenomenon, widely known both to terrorists and to the countries
involved, determines - at least in part - the rules of the terrorist game.

Throughout its long history, terrorism has had a checkered record of stunning
successes and dismal failures - at least as judged by the achievements of the
goals proclaimed by its practitioners. Recently, terrorism's successes have been
more visible than its failures, and the international community - diplomatic,
religious, academic - has been selective in its condemnation of terrorists. For
these reasons, aggrieved groups and individuals have increasingly found
terrorism an acceptable, and even attractive, option. Nearly every nation has
made some use of terrorism. Nearly every cause has supported or benefited from
some form of terrorism. Many individuals have terrorist groups they "approve of"
"refuse to condemn" "understand" or apply a more permissive standard to than the
one they use for other terrorist groups. The US has supported, financed and
trained groups that are widely regarded as terrorist, such as the Contras in
Nicaragua, the mojahedin in Afghanistan, Unita in Angola and Samuel K Doe in
Liberia/Sierra Leone. Many Jews supported the Irgun and the Stern Gang during
Israel's struggle for independence. The anti-apartheid movement in South Africa
employed terrorism, with widespread support from many African-Americans (and
others as well). To a far lesser extent, small numbers of blacks supported, or
at least refused to condemn, such American terrorist groups as the Black
Panthers, the Revolutionary Action Movement and the Black Liberation Army. Some
Irish-Americans have assisted Catholic terrorists in Northern Ireland, while
some have quietly admired their actions. A small number of Jews supported the
Jewish Defence League during the late 60s and early 70s. A substantial number of
American Muslims have contributed money to Islamist terrorist groups.

The important point is that terrorism, as a mechanism of change, has never been
universally condemned - at least before September 11. Our past policies - which
have rewarded the causes of terrorists, honoured their leaders, freed the actual
terrorists, neglected on-the-ground intelligence, failed to secure our airports
and borders, allowed terrorist groups and states that support them to obtain
weapons of mass destruction and refused to hold states that sponsor terrorism
accountable for the actions of their surrogates - were prescriptions for
creating more and worse terrorism.

No one who observed how the world responded to the globalisation of terrorism
between 1968 and 2001 should have been surprised by September 11. The only
surprise, and one I suspect the terrorists did not anticipate in light of the
world's previous reactions, was the swiftness and massiveness of the military
response. We are now, finally, engaged in an effort to send a message to
terrorists - at least terrorists who target Americans - that they will pay a
heavy price for their terrorism, that terrorism will only hurt their cause.

Alan M Dershowitz is the professor of law at Harvard Law School. Why Terrorism
Works is published on September 26 (Yale University Press, pounds 17.95)


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                               September 9, 2002

In the name of the law; 11 September - The terrorist attacks on America showed
the peculiar vulnerability of the modern world economy. Can we develop a legal
order that adequately protects it? By Robert Cooper

BYLINE: Robert Cooper

LENGTH: 3031 words


The use of force is barbarous unless it is in support of some concept of order.
We are reluctant to go to war for oil, for profit, for territorial gain or for
conquest pure. To justify violence, we invoke the stability of the international
system, the sacred soil of the motherland, the historic destiny of the nation,
the rule of international law, the desirability of making the world safe for
democracy, civilisation, socialism or something similar. We talk of sacrifice in
war precisely because violence is, or should be, sacred.

Even when, in retrospect, we judge that the use of force has been wrong - either
because it was mistaken or because it was illegitimate - it has been justified
with reference to some higher goal. The Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan to
support the spread of a new socialist world. Britain and France defended their
action over Suez to protect the world from tyrants who were ready to take the
law into their own hands and seize private property. The US fought in Vietnam to
prevent the spread of communism through south-east Asia and the world. At other
times, wars have been fought to preserve the balance of power, to enforce the
doctrines of the Church, to spread the teachings of the Prophet, to assert
legitimate claims on an inheritance, or to create a new order in Europe or Asia.

There may be occasions when force is used without such a justification. Perhaps
the violence of the Revolutionary United Front in Sierra Leone comes into this
category. But even in these cases, as often as not, some spurious tale is told
of magical powers or tribal revenge. Very likely, when the barbarians sacked
Rome, they did so in the name of ancient liberties or the honour of the clan.

Today, when we have lost faith in nation, God and history, we prefer to make war
in the name of law or of humanity. Or we may do so for the preservation of an
international order that is supported by law and which tries to operate for the
good of humanity.

Every age remakes the law according to its needs and its values. Domestic laws
and constitutions change to meet the needs of the times. In the past hundred
years, the kings and emperors have gone, retired from politics to their palaces,
deserting the pages of the serious press for the world of fashion magazines. In
most advanced countries, women have acquired new rights. Racial discrimination
has become illegal; abortion and homosexual practices are increasingly
permitted. New crimes such as hacking have been created to match the new
technology, just as copyright was invented to take account of the coming of
print.

In the same way, notions of international law change to match the changing
world. The idea of the state as sovereign (replacing the universal jurisdiction
of the Church), the laws of war, the outlawing of piracy, the abolition of the
slave trade, the concept of self-determination and the doctrine of human rights
have contributed to a growing idea of international law. The last two of these
are perhaps especially significant, since they represent the beginning of the
encroachment of international law on the domestic sector.

Military intervention is justified if it represents a kind of self-defence by
the international system, if its objective is to preserve the values and order
that enable men and nations to live and go about their business. It is,
therefore, important to ask what sort of international order we live under. The
answer is that the world we live in today has two striking characteristics, both
with important consequences for the legal order. First, it is a world driven by
a global economy; second, it is a post-imperial world.

Globalisation needs peace, order and a framework of law. Just as the nation
state grew largely to allow orderly economic exchanges within particular
boundaries, so international institutions are growing now to allow trade to
flourish across boundaries. International trade needs some minimum system of
rules: both the rules of international contracts that the private sector has
developed and also the framework of rules created by bodies such as the World
Trade Organisation, which provide some security for international companies
against unpredictable state interventions. To this should be added international
law on patents, navigation, exploitation of natural resources, finance, air
travel and much else on which the health and prosperity of the world economy
depends. Then there is the gigantic body of 'regional law' developed by the
European Union, which, although it operates at a level higher than that of the
nation state, does not pretend to universality.

The central point of globalisation is that it has eroded the distinction between
internal and external. Economies that are open to trade and investment are also
open to influence from outside. Industrial changes overseas impact on jobs and
profits at home. Crimes committed abroad - drug smuggling, people smuggling,
waste dumping, money laundering - may ultimately endanger your safety. In an
open world system, the risk of the ill effects of war spilling over are much
greater than ever before: investments abroad may be lost; domestic social
security systems may have to cope with large flows of refugees. At the same
time, the growth of international media brings into our homes the pity of war to
an extent never known before.

All of this creates an environment in which the pressure for external
intervention is greater than ever before. The characteristic post-cold war
conflict is a civil war; and the characteristic intervention is not, as in the
past, intervention for conquest but a peacekeeping operation designed to bring a
civil war to an end or to solidify a shaky peace. In keeping with the reducing
distance between the internal and the external, such missions may include police
as well as soldiers, and even judges and prison officers. Indeed, we find
ourselves describing a military operation as a 'police action' and prosecuting
people for war crimes. The purpose of a peacekeeping operation (of the Bosnian
variety, for example) is to protect civilians, to restore order and to allow
ordinary life to go on. In this sense, it is quite different from what,
historically, armies have usually done - to attack other armies and to disrupt
ordinary life as much as possible.

And, just as the borderless economy undermines the economic power of the state
in favour of the individual, so our society's emphasis on individual rights and
freedoms begins to threaten the idea of state sovereignty as the sole basis for
the international order. Gross violation of human rights has been added to
self-defence and to UN security council resolutions as a legal justification for
intervention. As Kofi Annan argued following the Nato campaign in Kosovo,
sovereignty cannot be protected if the result is that the sovereign attacks his
own people. Taking this argument a stage further, Richard Haass, director of
policy planning at the State Department, has suggested that sovereignty implies
obligations as well as rights and that the rights may be forfeited if the
obligations are neglected. This might be described as a shift from a Grotian
world (after Hugo Grotius, the 17th-century Dutchman regarded as the father of
international law), where the object of international law was the state, to a
Kantian one, where the law exists to protect individuals rather than states. The
corollary of a willingness to contemplate intervention abroad where we think a
state has exceeded international norms is a readiness to condemn, and
occasionally to take action against the use of violence at home - in Zimbabwe or
in Chechnya, say.

The rule of law is what allows globalisation to function. And in a world ruled
by law it is no surprise to find that lawyers are increasingly consulted about
matters that were once the exclusive concern of the military: today's
policy-makers have to ask not just whether an operation is militarily feasible
but also whether it is legally defensible. This is one important difference from
the world of the cold war: questions of law did not belong in a life-and-death
struggle.

And yet, there is a nagging doubt here. It is by all means reasonable to ask of
certain government actions - the disposal of nuclear waste or the imposition of
a steel tariff - whether they are legal. Applied to a military intervention, the
question seems beside the point. Legal advice may occasionally result in a
changed target, but would it ever persuade a government to change its mind about
taking action altogether?

International order is created by force, preserved by force and backed by the
threat of force. International law is the expression of the order that allows us
to run a global economy; but force is what established that order. Force may be
legitimate or illegitimate; it may be wise or foolish; it may be in the
interests of the international community or not; but questions about whether it
is legal or not seem - at this stage of world history, at least - merely
pedantic. In domestic affairs, one does not ask if a constitution is legal or
not.

This does not imply that law and force are alien to one another. Our order is
above all a legal order. If force can be used within a legal framework, so much
the better. But even where it does not make sense to question its legality, it
should still be used in support of the law - to support the civil power, say, or
to establish an environment in which the rule of law becomes possible.

The second characteristic of our age is that it is post-imperial. A hundred
years ago, the surface of the earth was largely occupied by imperial powers and
their possessions. All the empires are gone now: the Ottoman empire, the
Austro-Hungarian, the German, British, French and Japanese empires, and finally
the Soviet empire. Not only have the empires disappeared, but with them has gone
the will to conquer and to rule in other lands. One result of this has been the
appearance of so-called failed states: countries that would once have been ripe
for imperial takeover but which today nobody wants to take on, and which fall
into civil war or are taken over by criminal elements. Most of the international
interventions in the post-cold war period have been in failed or failing states:
Bosnia, Kosovo, Macedonia, Somalia, Afghanistan, East Timor. (The exception was
the Gulf war, an intervention of a much more traditional kind, where the threat
posed to the world order of state sovereignty was also of a more traditional
variety.) For the moment, the international community continues to attribute
sovereignty to states even when they have failed. One wonders how long this
doctrine is going to last? It is paradoxical to consider as sovereign a place
where no government exists to exercise that sovereignty.

These interventions have been characterised by two features of the post-imperial
style. First, they have been multilateral. If a single state intervened, it
might be suspected of imperial motives; multilateralism provides some limited
guarantee that this is not the case. Multilateralism does not give a full
guarantee of legitimacy, but it helps.

Multilateral institutions are in some respects the successors to now defunct
empires as a way of organising the world. They provide the framework for trade,
investment, cultural exchange and the rule of international law that was once
furnished (up to a point) by imperial structures. Especially striking is the
post-imperial style of intervention employed by the European Union around its
borders, and in particular in the Balkans. Coercive military intervention is the
most dramatic form of intervention but it is by no means the most frequent:
advice, political and economic pressure, monitoring (often in the context of
possible eventual membership of the EU), are all employed. All these are methods
of influencing domestic decisions and all have played important roles in
reshaping post-cold war Europe.

Regional law and regional norms may be more important than supposedly universal
laws. Western intervention in Kosovo was justified formally in terms of
international humanitarian law; in practice, it is doubtful if Nato would have
felt able to make a similar intervention in Africa or Asia. It is not just that
the Nato countries would have had more post-colonial suspicion to live down,
reducing the legitimacy, if not the legality, of action. They would also have
lacked the historical references that gave the action in Kosovo much of its
legitimacy: the Holocaust and the ethnic cleansing of the Second World War. It
was in these terms, rather than in the language of international humanitarian
law, that western politicians explained their actions and which their publics
understood them. Thus, although the Enlightenment tradition makes us think of
international law as universal, in practice, there is probably a strong regional
and historical element in how we think of the legitimacy of international
intervention; and, perhaps, in due course, this should be incorporated into our
thinking about law.

The era we live in today - the post-cold war world of globalisation - is still
young. The system of law we have begun to create is designed to make the world
safe for commerce and (the two are not unrelated) to promote human rights. The
world we are trying to shape seems a rather peaceful, rational construct in
which more will die from obesity than from violence. (This is already the case
in the United States.) We may never get there.

The events of 11 September have shown us the other side of globalisation and the
post-imperial world. We live in a world that is doubly vulnerable: first,
because it is open and cross-border trade, travel and communication has never
been easier; second, because an international division of labour, in an ever
more competitive global economy, forces us to operate on increasingly fine
margins of error. It requires much less to do serious economic damage to today's
world than was the case 30 years ago. On 11 September, it became clear how much
damage a small group can do to our society. At the same time, it provided a
powerful image that will dominate the imagination of the disaffected for decades
to come. In the second half of the 20th century, the east Asian imagination was
possessed by the idea of imitating Japan, and building a state and economy to
rival that of America. In this century, the consuming passion of the
discontented and the dispossessed in the Middle East, and possibly beyond, may
be to reproduce the destruction of 11 September.

Globalisation represents a radical redistribution of power away from the state
(which remains confined by borders and by national culture) and in favour of the
private, the corporation, the non-governmental organisation, the individual, the
criminal - anyone who can organise themselves to operate in a borderless
environment. Where the external and the internal merge, large-scale crime may
begin to resemble small-scale war - the two coming together neatly in the
concept of terrorism. And a (Kantian) world that empowers individuals also
empowers terrorists.

Simultaneously, a second redistribution of power is taking place through the
development of relatively cheap and powerful weapons. Since artillery first
became important, it has been quite easy for governments to maintain a monopoly
on the means of violence. Private organisations and individuals could not raise
the revenue required to organise a train of siege artillery. Nor (short of
recruiting an army, which has never been a real possibility outside the chaotic
context of the Thirty Years War) could they muster the destructive power needed
to do serious harm to a state or society - particularly agricultural societies,
which, being largely self-sufficient on a village level, are highly resilient,
as the US discovered in Vietnam. Today, however, the possibilities of attack
through chemical, biological or electronic means are increasingly available to
individuals or small groups. In an open society, neither the knowledge nor the
material required can be kept only in the hands of governments. The events of 11
September have shown what can be done without using any of the purpose-built
technologies of mass destruction; future attacks may be even more devastating.
The Bush administration's twin focus on terrorism and on weapons of mass
destruction is precisely right. We are lucky that the instances of the two
coming together are, so far, relatively limited. We cannot count on this
continuing.

If these threats develop - and history suggests there is good reason to be
pessimistic - then both internal and international order will be at risk. How
the international system will cope remains to be seen, but it is unlikely that
the comparatively benign, ordered, law-governed world that seemed to be emerging
from the cold war will survive intact. If the state and the state system weaken,
if violence becomes cheap and the states lose their monopoly on it, if disorder
grows, the prospects for international society look increasingly bleak. This
does not mean that we must give up the attempt to govern force by law. A
law-governed society of nations still remains our long-term objective. None of
the alternatives (government by men, God, history, race or power) seems
attractive. It means only that our chances of success will be limited unless we
find the means to control the forces set free by technology. In the meantime, we
have to adjust our legal concepts to take account of the new realities:
pre-emptive force and covert operations may need legal recognition; and the UN
security council may or may not be able to play a central role. At all events,
we cannot continue as though nothing is happening, and assume that present
conceptions of the legal order must remain unchanged.

Robert Cooper is director-general for external and politico-military affairs at
the Council of the European Union, and a former adviser to Tony Blair. The views
expressed here, however, are entirely personal. His essay originally appeared on
the Crimes of War website, www.crimesofwar.org


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2002 New Statesman Ltd

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                               September 9, 2002

CHURCH ATTACK TERROR

SOURCE: Yorkshire Evening Post

BYLINE: ALISON BELLAMY

LENGTH: 193 words


POLICE are today hunting a brutal sex attacker after a woman was assaulted in
the grounds of Leeds Parish Church.

Today the Rector of Leeds Graham Smith said: I would ask anyone with information
to come forward. I am very distressed to hear of the attack.

The 30-year-old woman was attacked in the early hours of Sunday morning by a
well-spoken, smartly-dressed man.

The Leeds woman had been walking alone near to the church at Kirkgate when she
suffered the horrific serious sexual assault in the church yard.

A passer-by heard screams and stopped to help before calling police at around
3.30am on Sunday.

Det Insp Martin Hepworth, of Millgarth CID, said: This man was dressed smartly
in a white shirt and black suit. He must have been somewhere earlier in the
night and must have been seen by someone, somewhere. We appeal to anyone who
recognises his description to get in touch on 0113 241 3085.

The attacker is described as a mixed race Asian and white male, approximately
5ft 8ins tall, of medium build with, dark hair with a quiff. He had a mole on
his left cheek and was wearing white shirt and black suit. He was well spoken.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 10, 2002

Cabbie tells of gun terror;
 ATTACKER FOILED: pepper gas sprayed in taxi driver's face

BYLINE: Tamsin Davis

SECTION: News :999 :Theft, Pg.1

LENGTH: 490 words


A BRAVE taxi driver managed to thwart a would-be robber who sprayed him in the
face with pepper gas before threatening him with a gun.

Quick-thinking Andrew Gregson was able to turn the tables on the man who
attacked him and demanded money, sparking a terrifying drive through the
outskirts of Bath.

The 42-year-old driver had been blinded by the spray - but was determined not to
give in to the attacker.

He had picked up the passenger at the Orange Grove taxi rank.

The man was mumbling, to conceal his voice, and Mr Gregson initially thought he
was just slightly drunk.

It was when the taxi pulled up at the top of Down Lane in Bathampton five
minutes later that the passenger launched his attack.

Mr Gregson turned over his left shoulder to speak to him and was given a volley
of chemical spray in the incident which began at 11pm on Saturday.

The man had reached through the payment hatch of the Hackney carriage and was
holding the canister just six inches from Mr Gregson's face.

He shouted: "I want all your money. Give me your money."

Mr Gregson was helpless as he struggled from the effects of the spray. He could
not see properly and was gasping for breath.

But he managed to make an abrupt U-turn which led to the man falling backwards,
and Mr Gregson was able to slide the hatch shut. The doors locked automatically
and he started driving to Bath police station, before realising he would not
make it as the spray had started stinging and his eyes were streaming.

The man, who was still trying to spray the gas, then said: "I've got a gun, do
you want me to use my gun?"

Mr Gregson, who was blasting his horn and flashing his hazard warning lights to
try to attract attention, pulled into the entrance of the Ministry of Defence
site in Warminster Road where he knew there were security cameras and told the
man to get out, before driving off.

"I realised I wasn't going to make it to the police station.

The spray was becoming a problem for him in the back with the windows closed and
I suspected at this point he was at least as scared as I was because he was
trapped in the taxi.

"The majority of people would have panicked. You feel pretty hopeless. But I
don't panic easily and I'm quite a resourceful bloke.

"I thought my life may be in danger and it was all the more reason to take
charge of the situation, rather than surrender to whatever he had in mind."

After reporting the incident to police, he went to the city's Royal United
Hospital.

Detectives are examining CCTV footage in the hope of tracing the attacker.

They are keen to interview two women seen talking to him before he got into the
yellow cab and two members of the public who walked past the vehicle when it
stopped on the A36.

The offender was a white man in his 20s, with short cropped blond hair, a ring
in his eyebrow, and was wearing a green bomber jacket and beige jeans.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 10, 2002, Tuesday

ARAFAT HITS OUT AT TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Robert Porter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 546 words


Yasser Arafat told the Palestinian parliament yesterday that he condemns 'every
act of terror against Israeli civilians' and that he is willing to give up
executive powers if asked.

It was not immediately clear whether he was seriously proposing stepping down or
merely mocking his critics.

Arafat's appearance before the legislature, his first in 18 months, was
considered a key test of his standing. He was seeking approval for a new Cabinet
and for reform plans sought by the United States and Israel.

Arafat's popularity has plummeted in recent months. Shunned by the United
States, he has largely been confined to his headquarters in the West Bank town
of Ramallah.

In his speech, Arafat said he condemned 'every act of terror against Israeli
civilians,' but did not say explicitly that the attacks must be halted.

He said such attack served Israel's interest by drawing attention away from the
suffering of the Palestinians under Israel's occupation. He asked legislators to
uphold the national interest, but did not specify what this would mean.

A draft version of the speech contained several paragraphs in which he called
for a ban on suicide bombings in Israel, but the speech Arafat delivered in
Ramallah did not include such a call.

Arafat said the world expects from the Palestinians a 'clear stance and firm
answers regarding peace with Israel and the Israeli peace, as well as with
regard to democracy and reforms in our society'.

In an off-the-cuff remark, Arafat said that 'if you would like to replace me in
the executive powers, I wish you would do it and give me some rest'.

The 88 seat parliament has convened only sporadically, and usually with a low
turnout, during the past two years of fighting because of Israeli travel
restrictions.

Israeli hard-liners criticised Prime Minister Ariel Sharon for permitting the
session to go ahead, arguing it would give new credibility to Arafat at a time
when Israel is trying to sideline him. Sharon initially blocked the parliament
meeting.

The session opened at Arafat's sandbagged West Bank headquarters, which has been
heavily damaged in several Israeli raids. In a first step, legislators reelected
their speaker, Ahmed Qureia, by an overwhelming margin.

Qureia, also known as Abu Ala, was a key player in earlier peace accords with
Israel. He is considered a confidant of Arafat, but is also considered a
possible successor to the Palestinian leader.

After Arafat's speech, MPs were to move to the parliament building in Ramallah.

Arafat advisers said the Palestinian leader chose not to leave his headquarters
for yesterday's session because he wanted to avoid possibly embarrassing
encounters with Israeli troops. Israeli troops reoccupied Ramallah and several
other West Bank cities in June, as part of an offensive against Palestinian
militants.

In other developments, a senior Palestinian official said Sharon would meet
Arafat's deputy, Mahmoud Abbas, to try to find a way to end the fighting. Abbas
is seen by the United States and Israel as a moderate.

In the Gaza Strip troops blew up the house of a suspected Palestinian militant
in the Boureij refugee camp. During the operation, about 60 tanks encircled
Boureij and two adjacent camps.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 10, 2002, Tuesday

CRYSTAL BALL GAZERS FAILED IN PREDICTIONS;
 AFTER THE TERRORIST ATTACKS IN THE USA, A NEW WORLD ORDER WAS FORECAST, BUT,
SAYS JONATHAN WALKER, LITTLE HAS CHANGED IN BRITISH POLITICS

BYLINE: Jonathan Walker Casualties of war: Stephen Byers who resigned when he
knew revelations about his affair with Liverpool councillor Barbara Corish were
about to surface and inset, Debra Shipley, whose conversation with Jack; Straw
regarding her opposition to the Afghanistan operation, was overheard by a
journalist

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1052 words


'T his is a moment to seize. The kaleidoscope has been shaken. The pieces are in
flux. Soon they will settle again.'

So spoke Tony Blair last October, spelling out his vision of a new world order
following the murder of thousands of people in the USA. He saw the terrorist
attacks as 'a turning point in history'.

And one year on, Britain stands on the brink of a major war, with potential
long-term consequences not only for the Middle East, but for the European Union.

The Parliamentary Labour Party has flexed its muscles, with Blair's MPs
demanding to be heard.

And civil liberties have fallen victim to fears about security, allowing
ministers to pass new laws detaining suspected terrorists without trial, and to
raise identity cards as a real possibility. What is surprising, however, is how
much has stayed the same. Conservative support stands at 32 per cent, according
to a recent poll - no change from last year's General Election.

Outspoken Birmingham MP Clare Short remains in the cabinet, despite predictions
of her walking out in a huff.

Labour's plans to boost NHS spending by putting a penny on National Insurance,
half-revealed last June, are going ahead as intended.

The Chancellor will still announce the results of his 'five tests' on the euro
before next June, possibly leading to a referendum.

And at no point has Tony Blair's leadership been threatened. There has been
speculation, all year, that it might be threatened at some point. But the threat
has not materialised.

September 11 did change the life of one Midland MP, Paul Marsden, former Labour
member for Shrewsbury and Atcham, who spoke out against Britain's role in
Afghanistan.

He was hauled before the Labour whips, and learned that it was OK for left-wing
troublemakers to rebel but moderates like him must keep their mouths shut.

The affair blew up in Labour's face, as Mr Marsden exposed the bullying tactics
and joined the Liberal Democrats. But he is the exception that proves the rule.
Many colleagues shared his concerns. Few spoke out.

Take Stourbridge MP Debra Shipley, for example. She made her opposition to the
Afghanistan operation forcefully known to Foreign Secretary Jack Straw. But her
views only became public because a journalist overheard the exchange in the
House of Commons tea-room. Ms Shipley never meant them to be for general
consumption.

Tony Blair's private meetings with the Parliamentary Labour Party are stormier
than ever.

But Labour MPs practise vigorous self-censorship in public. They know that
bringing down the Government would be the political equivalent of shooting
themselves in the head.

It remains to be seen if war in the Gulf will change that attitude. If the US
can gain United Nations' backing, it seems unlikely.

September 11 did destroy the career of a cabinet minister. Stephen Byers
resigned when he knew revelations about his affair with Liverpool councillor
Barbara Corish were about to surface.

But the mortal wound was struck when his special advisor, Jo Moore, sent the
infamous email suggesting it was a good day to 'bury' bad news.

This was the continuation of a longrunning debate about Labour 'spin' which
began before Tony Blair even came to power.

It also manifested itself in the rows over the Queen Mother's funeral, nothing
to do with September 11.

For the Conservatives, the attacks offered an opportunity to be taken seriously.

When Iain Duncan Smith became new Tory leader, attacking the Government was very
difficult.

Mr Blair was a world statesman and his calls for opposition to terror and a
greater understanding of Islam struck exactly the right note.

Mr Duncan Smith could only nod approvingly. But in doing so, he gained a little
of that aura of statesmanship himself.

Labour was forced to abandon plans to paint him as a crazed extremist, leaving
Conservatives free to re-brand themselves as a compassionate party.

Whether it is working is another matter. But it has certainly meant an enhanced
role for Meriden MP Caroline Spelman, Shadow Secretary of State for
International Development.

She has emphasised the need to rebuild Afghanistan, and will probably do the
same for Iraq. If September 11 had never happened, her profile would be much
lower.

Religion has become a factor in British politics again, but now the debate
surrounds Islam, rather than Catholicism.

When Labour's Khalid Mahmood was elected to represent Perry Barr, he insisted he
did not want to be known as 'Birmingham's first Asian MP'.

After September 11, he was known as England's only Muslim MP. His view was
sought on all issues associated with the terrorist attacks, race relations in
this country and Afghanistan.

Downing Street unashamedly used its Muslim MPs and peers, encouraging them to
represent themselves as the true, moderate, voices of British Muslims.

Mr Mahmood took to the role with more enthusiasm than some of his colleagues,
although he has also pursued his original agenda of trying to improve facilities
for the whole community in Perry Barr.

The British National Party tried to cash in on the attacks, deciding that Islam
is now the enemy.

But despite gaining three of the 5,907 council seats contested in May, their
influence remains negligible.

On the positive side, a genuine desire to understand Islam saw sales of the
Koran in Britain rocket, and local newspapers scrambled to ask the neighbourhood
mosque for its views, perhaps for the first time.

In some parts of Europe, extremists have had more luck. And the anti-Islam
message has been matched by antiAmericanism, with both the Koran and McDonalds
portrayed as threats to 'European culture'.

Moderate political leaders have also taken up the anti-American line. Gerhard
Schroeder of Germany staunchly opposes war in Iraq, and Jacques Chirac of France
is lukewarm.

If a permanent rift develops between Europe and the US, and Britain sides with
its Atlantic partner, this country's long-term interests could be severely
damaged.

Far from being at the heart of Europe we would be permanently marginalised, but
unable to leave.

This could be the real legacy of September 11 on British politics. But then
again, earlier predictions of historic change have not come true.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 10, 2002

LEADER IF TERROR ATTACKS ARE THE RESULT OF THE ULTIMATE CULTURE CLASH. . .; CAN
WE REALLY AVOID A WAR OF CIVILISATIONS?

BYLINE: MARK URBAN

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 833 words


THE disaster of September 11 was an emphatic turn for the worse in world
affairs. In one almighty snuffing out of life, many worrying trends were hurled
forward with enormous impetus. By their methods and targets, the Al Qaeda men
showed that they were quite different to the terrorists we were used to. There
was no list of demands: Al Qaeda was just interested in killing as many people,
in as spectacular a fashion, as possible.

Bin Laden and his henchmen had embarked on a "war of civilisations", between
Islam and the West. For all that decent opinion cries out that we do not want to
be part of such a conflict, it already colours the views of millions.

In Europe, or trendy New York, it was paradoxically those people normally least
enthusiastic about President Bush's politics who felt that his reaction to
September 11 was legitimised by the way Afghan clerics treated women. I have
heard quite a few card-carrying liberals justify the attacks in terms of
"civilisation". Then there was the reaction of the Middle East: denial on a
massive scale that Arabs could have done such a thing coupled with a wave of
hero worship of Bin Laden.

This simultaneous holding of two apparently irreconcilable positions suggests an
ideological view of the world that is hard for us to change. Whatever America
does cannot alter the view of millions of Arabs that the US is a Great Satan.
Even if Bin Laden's terror act was condemned by many Arab leaders or
intellectuals, it was bound to resonate with millions on the street. If this
ugly culture clash had been present at a lower level before 9/11, so had two
other factors: America's fear of further attack and Europe's desire for an
alternative kind of foreign policy.

In the years before 9/11, we could see America's long-cherished sense of
invulnerability faltering as Washington's security establishment fixated on
ballistic missile defence, cyber-war and bio-terrorism.

As Operation Enduring Freedom was launched in Afghanistan, Americans accepted
the idea that using massive force to prevent attacks was justified. Pre-emption
was better than finding out your intelligence people had missed some imminent
disaster.

Once they went in, the US military delivered results with remarkable speed. They
toppled the Taliban and killed several hundred Al Qaeda. As for Bin Laden, even
the most expert opinion in US intelligence seems split on whether he survived.

The US action has not ended the possibility of another Al Qaeda attack - nor did
they ever claim it would. It has, however, ended the situation where thousands
of fanatics had a place where they could congregate and prepare attacks. It has
also given Afghanistan its best hope for peace in decades.

Phase One of the War Against Terror has also, says one liberal American
columnist, "restored American deterrent power". Like that writer, I think this
is a good thing. Those ministers in Yemen or Somalia who might once have ignored
Al Qaeda activity can no longer afford to do so. Whether or not we Europeans
like it, this atmosphere is more likely to ensure American security than the
hopeless half measures of the Clinton years.

In their triumphalism at having thrown out Clinton's legacy, some Right-wing
ideologues in Washington now urge a crusade to bring democracy to the Middle
East. But while even many Arabs would agree that the region urgently needs
political change, there is little enthusiasm anywhere for an endless American
imperial venture.

All of this brings us to Iraq. Under Clinton, America responded to Iraqi
defiance by dropping a few bombs in 1998, putting the Saddam file in a drawer
marked "too difficult" and walking away. Clearly, it is not a good thing that
Iraq remains in violation of 15 UN Security Council resolutions but the real
issue in middle America is whether they feel threatened by Saddam - and, for
now, polls show they are undecided.

Washington is not yet resolved to wage a massive war against Iraq on its own and
Bush has embarked on a lengthy consultation of Congress and key UN members.

In Europe, many people assume an American attack on Iraq is a foregone
conclusion, triggering cheap anti-US rhetoric from many politicians.

SINCE these voices were so manifestly wrong in their predictions of disaster in
Afghanistan and since they are so reluctant even to commit forces for missions
they do consider worthwhile, we cannot be surprised Washington will not take
much notice.

Decisions on Iraq will be defined largely by how threatened Americans feel.
Further attacks by Al Qaeda remnants or anybody linked to Iraq might well decide
the issue.

Whether or not there is war this winter, the great question of our age - are we
now truly engaged in a clash of civilisations with the Arabs? - will take many
years or even decades to answer. One can only hope that last year's terror
attacks did not mark a decisive step towards such a conflict.

Mark Urban is diplomatic editor of BBC2 Newsnight.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               September 10, 2002

County is ready to remember victims of terror attacks

BYLINE: F. ROM PAGE

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 721 words


Firefighters in Exeter have organised tomorrow's procession, which will be led
by Devon Fire and Rescue Service's ceremonial unit and will be attended by the
city's civic and church leaders.  It will start off at 2.15pm outside the
Guildhall and end in Bedford Square at 2.27pm, where the Last Post will be
played before the two-minute silence.

The time marks the collapse of the first tower of the World Trade Center a year
ago.

Stagecoach Devon buses will pull to the side of the road to respect the
two-minute silence.

A fire service spokesman said: "The idea is to pay respect to all those who died
last year and in particular to our fellow firefighters in New York who made the
ultimate sacrifice." The Lord Mayor of Exeter, Val Dixon, and City Council Chief
Executive Philip Bostock will both attend.

Prior to the procession, there will be a special service in Exeter Cathedral at
1.15pm remembering those who perished in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

The communion will be led by Canon Carl Turner to "pray for the peace of the
world and to remember all those who suffered in USA on September 11, 2001".

Dozens of prayer cards commemorating victims have been left outside the
Cathedral's Lady Chapel.

One message reads: "For New York 9/11: Please remember the families of the
victims. May we never forget the evil and may God forgive. I can't." Another
card simply says: "Please pray for all who died on September 11 and their
families left behind." Meanwhile, workers from across the city will be observing
the nation's minute of silence at 1.46pm, which marks the time that the first
plane crashed into the World Trade Centre.

Hundreds of staff at County Hall in Exeter, as well as council workers and
visitors to the Civic Centre in Paris Street, will be asked to observe the
silence.

Devon County Council's Chairman, Mary Strudwick, is also writing to the new
Mayor of New York to express solidarity with the city and its people a year on.

In her letter to Michael Bloomberg, Cllr Strudwick writes: "We have been much
impressed through observing the media over the past 12 months at the efforts of
all those involved in the clearance work and support for the families of those
who died.

"It is a great testimony to the enduring spirit and courage of all New Yorkers.

"I can assure you that the people of Devon will be sharing your emotions on
September 11." Shops in Exeter such as Debenhams, Boots, Marks & Spencer and
Sainsburys in the Guildhall will also announce the one-minute silence to their
customers at 1.46pm tomorrow.

Train operators will ask their passengers to observe the event.

At Exeter School, pupils will observe the silence during their chapel assembly
focusing on the terrorist attacks. St Peter's High School will also mark the
minute's silence.

Exeter Airport staff will hold a minute's silence at 1.46pm and travellers will
be invited to take part.

However, the airport has not rescheduled any of its flights or stepped up
security for the anniversary.

East Devon District Council will be holding a two-minute silence at 1.46pm.
Council leader Sara Randall Johnson said: "I am sure those who are aware of the
time will pay their respects." Royal Marines based at the Commando Training
Centre at Lympstone will observe the minute's silence.

Major Peter Simmonds said: "It was a huge tragedy and I think everybody has an
empathy for those who died." The Exmouth branch of the British Legion is holding
a minute's silence in The Strand, Exmouth, at 11am.

At 2.27pm, Exmouth firefighters will join civic leaders, members of the public
and the town mayor for a short service.

Mid Devon District Council has no formal plans to mark September 11 although
some staff and councillors are likely to observe the silence.

Tiverton Town Mayor Alan Griffiths said: "I think most people will be
remembering what happened in their own way. I think that is the best way."
Sidmouth Town Council chairman Bernard Clark said he would ask for a minute's
silence to be held at tomorrow's meeting of the council's planning committee.

Teignmouth mayor David Weekes will attend a short service at The Triangle in the
town tomorrow morning, beginning at 10.50am and concluding with a two-minute
silence at 11am.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 10, 2002, Tuesday

MAWKISH MEDIA DRIVES A FRENZY OF MEMORIALS;
 SEPTEMBER 11 TOMORROW AMERICA MOURNS ITS DEAD FROM THE TERROR ATTACKS ON NEW
YORK, BUT ALREADY THE TV NETWORKS ARE PROVOKING CRITICISM

BYLINE: Andrew Gumbel In Los Angeles Workers at the World Trade Centre
yesterday, the towers of the; World Financial Centre behind AP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 687 words


AWAY FROM the main set-piece ceremonies, away from ground zero and the Pentagon
and that lonely field near Shanksville, Pennsylvania, just about every community
across America is organising its own commemoration of the 11 September attacks.

Whether it is in small-town ceremonies, or in schools or churches, or in moments
of silence snatched in offices and on shopfloors, almost everyone in America
will be marking tomorrow with some acknowledgement to the victims of the
country's worst peacetime atrocity.

Many events will be carefully thought out and genuinely heartfelt, despite the
overwhelmingly bombastic, mawkish, self-serving tone of the 24-hour rolling
media machine. Marking the anniversary on such a scale is extraordinary, and
almost impossible to explain without the impetus from the television networks.
Nothing remotely on this scale took place on 7 December 1942, first anniversary
of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.

"Is it all overkill? Of course it is," the television critic of The San
Francisco Chronicle, Tim Goodman, wrote yesterday, arguing the case for the
singular influence of the small screen on the way the country has responded to
the atrocities, one year on.

The driving lead being taken by the networks has left many local organisers
disoriented. Many people have sounded uncertain, half-wondering why the
anniversary should have taken on quite the proportions it has.

At one elementary school in the Los Angeles area, for example, the parent-
teacher association is organising an evening memorial event it hopes will be
"brief and moving". The organisers are still not sure what form it will take, or
if parents will turn up.

There will be no lack of eye-catching initiatives. Dozens of cities will
participate in the "rolling requiem", a worldwide effort to perform Mozart's
Requiem and observe a minute's silence in each of the 25 time zones, in each
case at 8.46am local time, the moment the first hijacked plane hit the World
Trade Centre.

In Freeport, Maine, two women who have stood on Main Street waving the American
flag every Tuesday morning since last September hope to be joined by hundreds of
fellow townsfolk. In Seattle, the museum of flying will arrange 1,400 volunteers
into a "human flag" that will wave silently in homage to the dead. In New York,
an Oklahoma man will arrive at ground zero on a horse.

On a smaller scale, children will be invited to dress in red, white and blue for
the day. Many people who hung flags on their houses or their cars a year ago
will be doing the same tomorrow. Some people have talked of dipping their
headlights at 8.46am. But these events will in some measure also be media
moments, attempts to capture public attention as much as they are an expression
of private sorrows.

Even where the atrocities of last year hit close to home, the compulsion to
transform personal bereavement into a media event has been stunning. Lisa
Beamer, the attractive blond widow of a passenger who died when United Airlines
flight 93 crashed in Pennsylvania, has been praised over and over for her
courage and her selflessness in setting up a foundation in her late husband's
name to help children recover from bad accidents.

But her husband Todd's celebrated call to action, "Let's Roll!", has also become
a slogan merchandised on T-shirts and baseball caps. She has a book to sell and
does the rounds of the national talk shows. Her website, beamerfoundation.org,
is plugging the compilation pop album Let's Roll: Together In Unity, Faith And
Hope produced in Nash-ville, home of country music.

Many Americans have expressed a weariness, even disgust, with the media- driven
obsession with the anniversary. That does not mean they will not participate in
the commemorations, but it does mean they will retain a certain scepticism
towards them.

As Frank Megna, a Los Angeles theatre producer, put it this week: "The 9/11
victims think they are getting closer to the truth by baring it all, but what we
are seeing is a distortion of what they are actually experiencing. It's really
more like a farce."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               September 10, 2002

Silence Will Mark Anniversary Of Terror Attack

SECTION: News; 999; Disasters; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 161 words


Shops and businesses will take part in a one-minute silence at 1.46pm, British
Summer Time - exactly one year to the minute when the first aeroplane hit the
World Trade Centre in New York. A spokeswoman for the Shires Shopping Centre in
Leicester said all stores had been asked to take part in the silence. East
Midlands Ambulance Service and the city council were also observing the
one-minute silence.

Head teachers at city schools are being asked to observe a memorial at a
convenient time. Fire alarms will signal the start and end of the silence in
council buildings.

Leicestershire's Fire Service will be taking part in a two-minute silence at
11am while leaders of Leicester's different faith communities are due to gather
in Town Hall Square at 12.30pm for a memorial service.

A two-minute silence will be held outside the Southfield Road council offices in
Loughborough and Coalville council offices in Whitwick Road at 1.46pm.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2002 Leicester Mercury

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 10, 2002, Tuesday

BA CANCELS FLIGHTS AS ANXIOUS PASSENGERS SHUN THE SKIES;
 TERRORISM: FEARS OF REPEAT SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 323 words


A DRAMATIC fall in demand for flights to America on the anniversary of the World
Trade Centre disaster has caused airlines to cancel many transatlantic services
tomorrow.

Fears that September 11 could see further atrocities or copycat attacks have
caused passengers to shun the skies, leaving many seats empty.

British Airways has revealed that it has withdrawn nearly half of its scheduled
flights to the States from Heathrow and Manchester because of the lack of
demand.

But it will still operate 27 flights to the country, including three of its
usual five flights to New York.

A BA spokesperson said that passengers should be reassured that they will be
safe.

"We have been on heightened security since the attacks and installed many new
precautions such as reinforced cockpit doors, closed-circuit TV cameras so the
crew can view the cabin and see if it is safe, and extra luggage searches."

Virgin Atlantic has also withdrawn three of its flights to Orlando, Los Angeles
and New York as passengers failed to fill seats.

"It will be a sombre day for the entire air industry, but services will continue
and passengers will still be offered the choice to fly to American
destinations," said a spokesperson.

Cardiff International Airport has not been affected, as it only runs one charter
flight to America a week, on a Thursday.

Staff will be holding a minute's silence at the moment the first plane hit the
World Trade Centre and a service for staff in the terminal.

"It is a sad time, but all passengers should be reassured it will be business as
usual," said spokesperson Nicola Greaves.

"We will be on heightened alert as we have been since September 11."

Passenger anxiety has even prompted one American internal flight operator,
Spirit Airlines, to offer pounds 300,000 worth of free flights to encourage
people to return to the skies tomorrow.

List of British victims - page 4

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 10, 2002, Tuesday

BRITISH AIRWAYS FACING DEMOTION FROM FTSE 100;
 SHARES SLUMP: GROUP HIT HARD BY TERRORIST ATTACKS IN AMERICA

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 282 words


UK airline British Airways is poised to be booted out of the prestigious FTSE
100 Index in this this week's reshuffle. The group, hit hard by the September 11
terrorist attacks in the US, has seen its shares slump over the past year as
profits and sales fell away.

The tourism and travel slump forced it to axe thousands of jobs, cut capacity
and drop routes as it struggled to cope with the fall in demand.

But in May it reported losses of pounds 200m - its worst results and first
fullyear losses since it was privatised 15 years ago.

A year ago, BA's shares were worth 270p but yesterday they closed up 3.25p at
135p, giving it a market value of pounds 1.46bn and making it one of three
candidates tipped for relegation.

Expected to join BA in the FTSE 250 is music group EMI.

It has seen its value slump in recent months after profit warnings and an
embarrassing compensation payout to Ken Berry, former chief executive of
recorded music.

It was also hit by a multi-million payout to end its recording contract with
singer Mariah Carey.

Even buoyant sales of Coldplay's album A Rush Of Blood To The Headhas not saved
it from expected demotion. Shares have slumped from a high of 390p this year to
just 168.75p yesterday, valuing it at pounds 1.4bn.

International Power, which has seen shares fall amid continued low electricity
prices in the UK market, is the third likely candidate.

Replacing them are expected to be packaging firm Rexam, healthcare group
Alliance UniChem and engineering group Tomkins.

The expectations are based on yesterday's closing prices. The reshuffle will be
based on today's closing prices with an announcement tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 11, 2002

Happy memories;
 TRAGIC DATE: vicar speaks of daughter killed in terrorist attack

BYLINE: Kylie Pentelow

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.1

LENGTH: 637 words


A BATH vicar whose daughter was killed in the September 11 terrorist attacks on
New York today spoke of his happy memories of her.

The Rev David Prothero will this evening conduct a special service at St Mary's
Church in Bathwick, a year to the day after the New York tragedy.

His daughter, Sarah Redheffer, was working on the 106th floor of the second
World Trade Center tower, close to the top of the building, when the terrorists
struck.

Tonight's service will be mirrored around the country and most of the world
today as the international community remembers history's worst terrorist
outrage.

Mr Prothero, who is the rector of Bathwick, said that today would be a chance
for him and his wife Sue to remember their 35year-old daughter's life.

"I hope that this anniversary will be not only a time to look back with love and
sorrow at the violence that was unleashed, but that it will also be a day for
happy memories, and for looking forward with hope, " said Mr Prothero, in a
message to the Chronicle.

"Sarah was incorrigibly hopeful, and we owe it to her and the others who died to
show (as it says in one of our prayers) that life is changed not ended. If only
all the changes could be for the better.

"We will remember Sarah, our daughter, especially but also her friends and all
who died in the Twin Towers disaster, and the other terrorist attacks that day.

"It will give us, as Sarah's family and friends, a time to remember her with
love, and with the many others who will be at the other services on this day,
especially in New York and in London, a time to remember in prayer all those who
died.

"We shall also pray for the many people whose lives have been and are still so
deeply affected by this tragedy."

Sarah, whose husband Eric is American, was working in New York for British
publishing company Risk Waters, and had organised a conference in the
skyscraper.

Mr Prothero said the anniversary was also a chance to think about how to deal
with terrorism across the world.

"I hope that we shall be able to show that there are several ways to declare war
on terrorism, " he said.

"You can stand up to terrorists with good national security, recognising the
mixed, if not downright evil, motives that prompt the indiscriminate taking of
life in this way, but we can also try to remove some of the causes of terrorism
by working for justice and peace for people who are suffering and dying in
poverty and neglect.

"There may not seem to be much that each of us can do - the big decisions are
taken by our political leaders and in Parliament - but it is our duty to pray
for them, to help as and when we can, and to be as well informed as we can about
the problems and the options for action, in the face of the forces of evil.

"No one in their right mind wants war, and we have to try to find ways of
breaking the cycle of violence that is at the heart of terrorism."

After Sarah's death, the Protheros set up an appeal which raised around 10,000
to help children throughout the world.

Half of it went to youngsters in Afghanistan and the other half was donated to
the Save the Children charity.

The service this evening at 7.30 is open to all.

St Mary's Church will also be open from 3pm, for any who would like to have a
moment of quiet, and perhaps light a candle as a prayer for peace.

A memorial service will also take place at the American Museum at Claverton at
1.30pm.

Meanwhile, there will be a silent vigil outside Bath Abbey from noon to 1.30pm.

Organised by the Bath Coalition Against War, the victims of September 11 will be
remembered, as well as victims of the war against terrorism.

People are invited to join the coalition and place a single flower on a white
sheet in memory of all those who have died.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 11, 2002

United States on high alert for terror attack;
 International News, REMEMBRANCE SERVICES: Queen sends personal message

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 490 words


BRITAIN was today joining nations around the world to remember the horrors of
September 11 and pay tribute to those who perished in history's worst terrorist
outrage.

Special events were being held around the country, including a key memorial
service in St Paul's Cathedral, to mark the first anniversary of the attacks on
New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

Security was heightened in all major cities and airports amid fears of a
symbolic attack by extremists.

Security chiefs urged the public to be "alert but not alarmed".

Some transatlantic flights from Heathrow and Gatwick have been cancelled,
authorities at the airports confirmed yesterday, and security has been stepped
up at the US Embassy in Grosvenor Square.

As America staged its own tributes, Britain, and most of Europe and the world,
was likely to come to a complete standstill at 1.46pm when there was the first
of two oneminute silences - each to mark when the jets hit the Twin Towers of
New York exactly a year ago.

The Queen last night sent a message of consolation to the British community in
New York.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw read the royal message at a service in St Thomas
Church in the heart of Manhattan.

The Queen spoke of the terrible loss of life and the justice of the hunt for the
terrorists.

She said: "No words can adequately express the sorrow felt or take away the pain
of separation and the grief shared.

"The dreadful attacks of September 11 may have threatened freedom, innocence and
other values we hold dear, but they also inspired grace, charity and courage.

"We admire these qualities in the strength of the families of the victims; in
the determination of the rescue workers; and in the extraordinary spirit and
resilience demonstrated by the people of New York.

"We honour the courage and determination of those in our armed forces and others
who are striving to bring those responsible for this outrage to justice and to
prevent similar atrocities in the future.

"Right must and will prevail."

The Prince of Wales and Prince Harry were due to meet some of the 600 relatives
and close friends of the 67 British victims planning to attend the service at St
Paul's in central London today.

Prime Minister Tony Blair and other political leaders were also expected to be
in the 2,000-strong congregation.

The US was today on a major security alert as it marked the September 11
anniversary, after a senior al Qaida officer provided "specific intelligence" of
more terror strikes.

Officials raised the warning to the second-highest level of orange, putting the
country and American interests abroad at "high risk of terrorist attacks".
Attorney General John Ashcroft said the intelligence related overseas attacks.

In an echo of events a year ago anti-aircraft missiles have been placed outside
the White House and US fighters patrol the skies above Washington and New York.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 11, 2002

September 11:Then and now;
 "My brother grew up in the worst of the Northern Ireland troubles only to be
killed in the worst ever terrorist attack on the Land of the Free""My brother
grew up in the worst of the Northern Ireland troubles only to be killed in the
worst ever terrorist attack on the Land of the Free"

LENGTH: 772 words


Ulsterman Michael Stewart was killed a year ago today in the terror attack on
New York's World Trade Centre. His sister Janet, from Newtownabbey, marks the
first anniversary of the tragedy with this personal tribute

ON September 11, 2001 my family were all scattered in different parts.

My partner was in England arranging his mother's funeral - she died of cancer on
September 9.

I was off work moving house on September 10 and my mother left for a holiday in
Turkey on the morning of September 11.

As soon as she arrived the devastating news was already coming through on the
television while I was watching the events unfold live back in Ireland.

It took two days to get through to my brother's fiancee, Kristin, only to hear
the dreaded words: Michael is missing.

Due to cancelled flights at that time it took my mum four days and an 18-hour
journey to get back home.

While death certificates were issued in late September, we only received full
confirmation of Michael's death in February when some of his remains were
identified using DNA from his kids, our mother, my sister and myself.

Michael was born in Northern Ireland in 1959 and, following his A-levels, he
went to Stirling University in Scotland.

After completing a BA Hon in English Literature he moved to New York where he
worked his way up the ladder in the financial field.

He joined Carr Futures as vice-president in May 2001, and had only been with the
company for four months before his death.

Despite having reached the pinnacle of his career he always insisted that his
proudest achievement by far was being a dad to his three sons, Frankie, now 15
and Eamon, now 12, to his first marriage, and Liam, now three to his fiancee of
five years, Kristin.

What made me proud of him was that he always kept his feet firmly on the ground
and made time for those who mattered most in his life - his family and friends.

At a memorial service held for him last October in New York, numerous people
from all walks of life spoke of a very gentle and compassionate man who
genuinely cared about those around him, an inspirational and motivating rugby
captain, and a very talented and competent financial expert.

All the tributes made to him have given our family great comfort and strength.

Last September my mother, sister and myself travelled to New York to apply for
Michael's death certificate.

My sister and I went to Ground Zero, and I am glad we did, but the magnitude and
ugliness of what we saw was quite difficult to take in.

The courtesy and respect we were shown by the fire-fighters working there, and
the American authorities, made an incredibly painful visit a bit more bearable.

My mother, partner and myself returned in May 2002 just as they had finally
cleared Ground Zero, by which time a family room had been set-up in a nearby
hotel from where you could view the site in private.

This time my mother made the heartbreaking trip to see where her son had died
and where the majority of his remains have their final resting place.

The family room was crammed full of poems, tributes, flowers, teddies and
memories of all those lost.

Thousands of photos lined the walls of young people in the prime of their lives
- Michael was one of the "older" ones at 42. The enormous sense of waste was
overwhelming.

IN most of the messages, as in my mind, anger and bitterness seemed irrelevant
and inappropriate.

The deep sense of sadness at the loss of Michael far outweighs any other emotion
and the fact that he will never see what his sons become is tragic.

For the first anniversary of the event my mum, sister and myself are going to
the service in St Paul's in London and hope to visit Grosvenor Square, the site
for a permanent British based memorial garden.

We have placed a memorial bench to Michael in Hazelbank Park in Newtownabbey,
close to where we all grew up. This is very important to us as we have no actual
grave to visit.

The family will always be grateful to our police liaison officer, Alan Rodgers,
who has gone way beyond the call of duty on our behalf and whom we will always
consider a friend.

The British Consulate in New York and the British Red Cross have provided us
with both practical and emotional support.

Without these dedicated and compassionate people it is difficult to imagine how
we would have coped.

On reflection, I have always thought it ironic that Michael grew up in Northern
Ireland in the 70s during the worst of the troubles only to be killed by the
biggest single terrorist attack ever in the USA, Land of the Free.


LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 11, 2002

Can hope rise out of the ashes?;
 Exactly a year ago, more than 3,000 people were killed in the terrorist attacks
on the United States. Their children, loved ones, family and friends are still
trying to come to terms with what happened.  ROSEE BROWN spoke to two people in
Bristol who are calling for peace and reconciliation in the wake of the
atrocities.

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1065 words


Like many in Britain, the Reverend David Smith, right, watched footage of the
September 11 horror on television. But it later emerged that his cousin Richard
Cudina had perished in the World Trade Centre attacks. Richard, aged 46, was a
bond broker with Cantor Fitzgerald and was at work on the 101st floor of the
South Tower when the first plane hit.

Since September 11 Mr Smith, the vicar of St John's Church in Clevedon, has
worked to overcome his grief and move forward. He spoke to the Evening Post
about how the past year has affected him.

DIFFERENT people deal with it in different ways. Richard's widow, Georgia, has
been very bitter at times, as you would expect.

"What has been difficult for a lot of people has been the fact that this has
been a tragedy that nobody has experienced before.

"You saw it on television as if it was almost a Cecil B De Mille film - to
witness those two aircraft crashing into the sides of the buildings and to later
see people jumping from the top - and I understand about 200 jumped - and to
then see both buildings collapse . . .

"The way it was represented by the media was almost like a film, so I think
we're still having a difficult time separating reality from fiction.

"Our family have obviously gone through all the emotions of bereavement, as you
would with somebody you love, and we miss Richard very much, particularly my
parents.

"He was the lynchpin with the family here in England. There is a great big gap.

"What I think has been difficult for a lot of families is they haven't had
relatives to bury.

"Fortunately some of Richard's body parts have been found, so I think at some
stage Georgia is going to have some sort of ceremony."

Rev Smith was one of many who called for an apology from Government transport
aide Jo Moore, who infamously described September 11 as a good day to bury bad
news.

He said: "I did accept her apology, in so far as it went, but her mistake was
being caught, and it did show a certain amount of cynicism at Government level.

"I felt that the Government handled it badly. I did write to Stephen Byers
suggesting the way ahead would be a letter to go out to the actual next of kin
of the English victims to say 'we're sorry'.

"They had all the names and addresses on a database.

"It would have been a few hundred letters and I think that would actually have
gone a long way.

"Looking back I don't think her apology was sincere - she was forced into
resignation."

"In terms of the Afghanistan action, I was unhappy at the time.

"We may feel that it was successful, but I understand that the number of
innocent people killed in that campaign was more than were killed on September
11.

"The moment we turn our backs on civil rights, on basic humanity, is the day we
actually join the terrorists, and it does seem to me that a lot of the people
who are now being held prisoner in Cuba deserve the civil rights we'd expect for
anybody else on the planet.

"There are issues with the Israel and Palestine situation where America and the
EU have got to be involved far less in their own national interests and more
involved in international interests.

"Until we can begin to think internationally there will be no peace.

"Richard, my cousin, had a chequered career, but largely he was a great
humanitarian."

Richard's parents are buried in Swanage, and the family hope to add his name to
their gravestone eventually.

Today Mr Smith will be holding a requiem mass to remember those who died and to
pray for peace.

"I have spoken to Georgia and her plan is to spend the day quietly.

"The whole issue has become one for politicians and the media and she wants to
avoid that.

"Some of the big memorial services last year were criticised by the relatives.

"One man wanted to go to one of the services and asked how he could get there.

"He was told he would have to queue.

"He asked: 'Are the Queen and the Prime Minister queuing? I'm the next of kin -
why should I have to queue?'

"Some of the books which have come out after September 11 contain a heck of a
lot of photos of politicians when that's not portraying what actually happened.

"Some of the restrictions to civil rights in the States now are worrying and we
have to be careful that we're not driving a great big wedge between the Western
world and the Muslim world.

"I think a lot of Muslims were afraid the finger would be pointed at them, when
many of them were saying that what was done was against the teachings of the
Qur'an.

"The murder of innocent people could not be countenanced under the banner of the
Islamic faith.

"Many Muslims live in this country and are happy with the civil rights and the
freedoms which we enjoy which they don't in their own countries.

"They are concerned that we may be losing the freedom in this country.

"I think that we, as Christian churches have a part to play in this, not only in
terms of teaching our own congregations, but to bring people of different races
and religions, not just Islam, but Hindu and all the spectrum of religion in our
cities.

"We need to be regarding England as the rainbow state, so I think the church
must be involved with that.

"We have got a lay rabbi living opposite us and he occasionally preaches at St
John's, and it's those sorts of things which are important.

"I find it frightening that I feel much closer to my orthodox Jewish friend
across the road than I feel to some extremist Christian fundamentalists.

"Monotheistic religions and some others all begin with the creation story.
However you understand that, there is an understanding that God is the creator
and therefore we begin with the understanding that we have a brotherhood and
sisterhood which we share.

"If we can only realise that, then we can see that it's important as members of
the same family to live together as such.

"Just as any family, you do get fallings-out but at the same time, when we have
a situation like September 11 or the African famines, we should come together.

"It doesn't matter what colour the skin is or what your racial type is, or what
your creed is, you should come together.

"Whether you're a Muslim, a Christian or a Jew you believe that.

"All the rest is decoration.

"The basis of Christianity is to love one another - and that's it."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

BRITAIN PUT ON ALERT AS SECURITY CHIEFS FEAR NEW TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Simon Baker And David Barrett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 659 words


POLICE and security staff across the UK have been placed on high alert for
today's anniversary of the September 11 terror attacks.

Scotland Yard anti-terror chiefs warned last week that lone terrorists
unconnected to al-Qaida could strike in a bid to exploit the "world stage"
offered by today's landmark occasion.

Mobile armed road blocks are in place around London as a first point of defence,
and the public have been warned to be on a state of "alert but not alarm."

The armed forces are also believed to have stepped up patrols and other security
measures at high-risk sites throughout the UK.

Although increased security has remained in place at British airports since the
terrorist outrages in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, many agencies have
planned extra police presence.

Eyewitnesses in central London yesterday reported seeing an RAF Tornado flying
over the city, although a Ministry of Defence spokeswoman refused to discuss
operations.

A spokeswoman for Heathrow airport said 18 of today's scheduled transatlantic
flights had been cancelled by operators BA, Virgin and American Airlines.

"Security has been heightened since September 11 and it will remain at a
heightened state," she added.

Additional vehicle checks and armed patrols are being carried out at Gatwick in
a bid to ensure that the day passes peacefully.

"There will be increased highprofile policing at the airport both as a deterrent
and to provide reassurance for the airport community and travelling public,"
said aspokeswoman for Sussex Police.

"Additional random vehicle check points will be conducted and there will be
enhanced armed and unarmed patrols within the terminals and other areas."

At exactly 1.46pm, the nation will come to a virtual standstill for one minute's
silence in memory of those who died in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

New York policeman Lieu-tenant Frank Dwyer will mark the start of the silence by
lighting a candle at 1.46pm, coinciding with the time of impact of the first
hijacked passenger jet on the North Tower of New York's World Trade Center.

The impact of the second jet on the South Tower will be marked by the lighting
of a candle at 2.03pm by leaders of British Jews, Muslims, Hindus andBuddhists.
The London Stock Exchange is stopping for two minutes' silence at 1.46pm.

At 1.15pm, there will also be a national service of remembrance and
commemoration at St Paul's Cathedral, at which more than 3,000 white rose
petals, representing all those who lost their lives, will be released from the
Whispering Gallery, inside the cathedral's dome. More than 600 relatives and
close friends of the 67 British victims are expected to be at the service, which
begins with the singing of the national anthem of the United States.

Actress Patricia Hodge will read a poem by T.S. Eliot and Culture Secretary
Tessa Jowell and US Ambassador William Farish will read lessons.

The Bishop of London, Richard Chartres, will address the televised service,
which will be led by St Paul's Canon in Residence Philip Buckler.

"The service is a time to think of those who died but also a time to light a
candle of hope for the future," said Canon Buckler.

"We shall be gathered at that time when the first of two aircraft flew into the
World Trade Center."

The Archbishop of Westminster, Roman Catholic Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor,
will lead prayers with the Salvation Army's World President of Women's
Ministries, Commissioner Gisele Gowans.

Opposition leader Iain Duncan Smith and Simon Hughes, representing the Liberal
Democrats, are expected to be among politicians attending.

Chancellor Gordon Brown, Home Secretary David Blunkett and former prime
ministers are expected.

Head of Scotland Yard's AntiTerrorist Squad, Assistant Commissioner David
Veness, said last week that individual terrorists may see the anniversary as
offering a "world stage."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HIGH PROFILE: Armed police officers on patrol in central London
yesterday, amid fresh tensions over a terror attack Picture: KIRSTY;
WIGGLESWORTH; TRIBUTE: Beams of light representing where the Twin Towers stood
illuminate the Manhattan skyline

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 11, 2002

America and Britain on the alert after captured terrorist warns of suicide
attacks

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 431 words


AMERICA stepped up its security world-wide last night after
receiving-information from an Al Qaeda source of possible suicide strikes.

Attorney General John Ashcroft said the colour-coded alert system was being
raised from yellow to orange to indicate a 'high risk of terrorist attacks'.

More than 20 U.S. embassies abroad were closed, including those in Pakistan,
Malaysia and Indonesia.

Mr Ashcroft said there were indications of planning for one or more suicide
attacks against U.S. targets. But he called on Americans to go about their
business as normal and said U.S. government workers would report for duty as
scheduled. The increased alert was in response to information from a senior Al
Qaeda terrorist captured in Pakistan who had warned American intelligence that
car bomb and suicide attacks were being planned for today.

Vice President Dick Cheney cancelled plans to deliver a speech in Washington
last night.

He moved to a secure and secret location outside the city so that he can take
over the government in case anything happens to President Bush.

Ashcroft added: 'Al Qaeda cells have been established in several south Asian
countries in order to conduct car bomb and other attacks on U.S. facilities.

These cells have been accumulating explosives since January in preparation for
these attacks.

'The U.S. intelligence community has also received information that one or more
individuals are preparing for a suicide attack or attacks against U.S.

interests.' Surface-to-air missiles will be based around Washington and jet
fighters will constantly patrol the skies over American cities today.

U.S. tankers in the Gulf are prepared for possible rocket attacks and the U.S.

Navy base in Bahrain, headquarters of the Fifth Fleet, was put on the highest
military state of readiness, Threat Condition Delta.

In London, Scotland Yard will mount a huge security operation today amid fears
of a terrorist attack. Although there is 'no specific' intelligence, authorities
are concerned that a lone Islamic extremist might be plotting an atrocity.

Two hundred extra police will be deployed around high-profile targets such as
the American Embassy, which is holding a remembrance service.

Armed police checkpoints are planned, with other armed officers held in reserve.

Rapid response units trained to deal with chemical, biological, radiological and
nuclear incidents are also on standby.

There will be extra security on the Underground and the railways, where search
teams will respond to reports of suspect packages.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

Window on a changed world Last September, Martin Amis wrote of his 'species
grief' over the terrorist attacks, and the 'worldflash of a coming future' as
the planes hit the towers. These are his thoughts, a year on

BYLINE: By MARTIN AMIS

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 379 words

About 20 years ago, on a day as cloudless as the early morning of September 11,
I was taken to lunch at the Windows on the World. The greeter, before letting me
pass, equipped me with a yellow necktie the size of a winter scarf; and I
remember my furtiveness and exhilaration as I perched on what seemed to me to be
the pompous apex of modernity. The view was terrifying. Still, these windows
weren't showing me the world. They were only showing me New York.

September 11 was and is a wound, and a window. Like many Londoners, I regard New
York as my second city - or my sister city, reachable by a seven-hour tube ride.
(Not Paris, not Rome: New York.) My wife, who was born and raised in the West
Village, made that tube ride on September 23. She saw the wound in all its
rawness: still fuming and throbbing and weeping. I didn't go until the spring.
And as I approached the barricaded site, I experienced the direct and vital
connection that no words and images had prepared me for. This was a crime scene,
and the crime was a crime against humanity. But my sense of it was also personal
and territorial. The First World, the world I belonged to, had been horribly
mauled.

Unlike the victims, the city will of course recover, will of course survive.
That day last spring, its unstoppable forces were all converging: the massive
can-do of the clearance crews, the preachers and counsellors and proselytisers,
the hawkers and hucksters with their 9/11 memorabilia ("Let's Roll" backpacks,
Barbie-Ken ground-zero dioramas, and so on). Yet the activity also emphasised
the consternating scale of the disaster. "See that building?" said a passing
tour-group guide, as he pointed up at a square-shouldered 50-floor colossus.
"Double that, and double it again. That's what came down."

The towers collapsed, and so did much else, including all notions of America as
an island or a fortress or a "gated community". The collateral catastrophe of
September 11 is our sudden introduction to a barely recognisable planet, a
planet which is not going to leave us alone. And the two extra oblongs of empty
space in that mythic skyline only apparently consist of thin air. Information
pours through them. They are windows on the world; and the view, once again, is
terrifying.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 11, 2002

WORLD ON 9/11 TERROR ALERT;NEW ATTACK FEARS ON ANNIVERSARY

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 382 words


AMERICAN interests around the world were put on major security alert today after
a senior al Qaida officer provided "specific intelligence" indicating a high
risk of more terror strikes.

As the world marked the September 11 anniversary, US officials raised the state
of alarm to orange, the second highest level.

US embassies were closed and heightened security was in place in government
buildings and US landmarks, following warnings of car bombings and suicide
attacks.

Armed missile launchers were placed around Washington and airport security
workers were conducting extensive searches of bags and passengers.

In New York, extra police patrolled famous landmarks and places where
commemorative ceremonies were taking place. Scuba

diving teams scoured docks and harbours.

Underground rail entrances at the New York Stock Exchange and access to many
streets in Lower Manhattan and around Ground Zero were restricted.

The Pentagon raised its terrorist alert for US forces around the world.

Two dozen American embassies and consulates were closed either for security
reasons or to let staff attend memorial ceremonies for those killed in last
year's hijack air attacks.

Some airlines cut back flights to American cities.

Eighteen transatlantic flights from Heathrow were cancelled.

Key areas of concern were the Middle East and South Asia.

US Attorney-General John Ashcroft said: ''Information indicates al Qaida cells
have been established in several South Asian countries in order to car-bomb and
attack US facilities.

US embassies in Indonesia, Malaysia and Pakistan stayed closed because of fears
of attack by bin Laden supporters.

Britain closed its missions in Indonesia, Pakistan and Singapore.

And in the UK, security was also heightened.

Police and security staff across Scotland were on high alert with an extra
presence at airports railway and bus stations. Security was also tight at the
Clyde Submarine Base at Faslane.

In London, mobile armed road blocks were in place, with the public warned to be
on a state of "alert but not alarm".

Additional vehicle checks and patrols were placed at high-profile buildings in
Westminster and Whitehall, and the Royal palaces.

US interests also had an extra police presence.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 11, 2002

MILLIONS MARK A DAY THAT ROCKED WORLD;SEPTEMBER 11: GLOBAL DAY OF REMEMBRANCE
AND MOURNING FOR THE 2800 INNOCENT PEOPLE WHO DIED IN TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 879 words


SILENCE descended on cities, towns and villages around the world today as people
remembered the horrors of September 11 one year on.

Nowhere was the stillness more poignant than at Ground Zero in New York, where
thousands gathered to mark the moment when the first jet struck the World Trade
Centre.

Only the occasional sob could be heard at 8.46am (1.46pm UK time) as people
surveyed the giant void where a year ago New York's two tallest towers stood.

Many were grieving for lost loved ones and some held up pictures of those who
died.

Millions of Americans commemorated the first anniversary, which began with New
York police and firefighter bands making a slow procession to Ground Zero.

Special services, marches and candlelit vigils were held across the US to mark
the tragic day.

President George Bush was visiting the three attack sites - New York, Washington
and Shanksville, Pennsylvania - during the day to pay his respects to the
victims, who numbered almost 2800.

He will lay a wreath at Ground Zero before addressing the nation live on
television.

As the nation marked the anniversary, the US was put on a major security alert,
with armed missile launchers placed around Washington.

The alert was triggered by a senior al Qaida officer providing "specific
intelligence" of more terror strikes.

Officials raised the warning to the second-highest level of orange, putting the
US and American interests abroad at "high risk of terrorist attacks".

President Bush said: "We will do everything we can to protect the American
people, and Americans need to go about their lives."

In New York, groups of pipe and drum players met in each of the city's five
boroughs to march to the site of the World Trade Centre.

A minute's silence was held at the site.

Former New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani led family members, New Yorkers and
people from around the world in reciting the name of each of the 2801 victims.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell, actor Robert De Niro and Senator Hillary
Clinton were also at the commemoration.

Relatives of 34 British victims, most of whom travelled to New York from the UK,
also attended.

Goody Aamoth, who worked in the 104th floor of the South tower, was the first
name read out.

New York governor George Pataki read from the Gettysburg Address, President
Abraham Lincoln's speech after the major Civil War battle in 1863.

The recitation of the names paused for readings by family members at the moment
when the second plane struck and the first tower fell.

The last name to be read was Igor Zukelman, 29, of New York.

The ceremony ended with a reading from the Declaration of Independence by New
Jersey governor James McGreevey.

During the ceremony family members descended the ramp into the seven-storey
-deep pit, where they picked up roses to put in a vase for a permanent memorial.

It was the first time they were able to visit the exact spot where their loved
ones had died.

Following the ceremony, Mark Sisk, the Bishop of New York, led a service at
Trinity Church, close to Ground Zero.

The church was used as a sanctuary by emergency workers during the rescue and
recovery operation.

The Lord Mayor of London, Michael Oliver, presented a commemorative bell to the
church, recording the sympathy of the city of London.

In Washington, victims' relatives attended a service at the Pentagon held to
coincide with the time the third hijacked jet hit the building.

Around 30,000 people attended Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where United flight 93,
the fourth hijacked jet, plunged into a field after passengers stormed the
cockpit.

Bells tolled 40 times as the names of the 40 passengers and crew members were
read.

Volunteers in San Francisco unfurled artist Pop Zhao's five-mile long banner
comprising 3000 US flags and strung it along the city's coastline.

In Houston, Texas, 5000 people placed 3000 white carnations, one for every
victim, in the Hermann Square Reflection Pool.

In Cincinnati, Ohio, 343 empty pairs of boots stood at the firefighter memorial
as a tribute to the comrades who died in the World Trade Centre.

In Anchorage, Alaska, a moment of silence was held before fire department bell
-ringing.

Officials in Hawaii held a state-wide bell-ringing and a moment of silence.

Hawaii is also the last place where Mozart's Requiem will be performed in a
rolling tribute across at least 21 time zones around the world with 180 choirs.

At sunset in New York, heads of state from around the world will gather at the
southern tip of Manhattan, where Mr Bush will light an eternal flame.

This is where The Sphere, a globe sculpture which once stood between the twin
towers, has been turned into a memorial.

As the US slept, the day began on the other side of the globe with a memorial
tree-planting in New Zealand.

It was one of many ceremonies held in the grounds of US embassies around the
world.

At Australia's Surfers Paradise holiday resort, firefighters and ambulance staff
took to the beach to form a human stars and stripes flag.

Stock markets across Asia opened in silence.

In Japan, screens on the Tokyo exchange trading floor carried a message of
renewed prayer and condolence.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WE REMEMBER: thousands of mourners in New York stand silent at Ground
Zero during today's ceremony to remember the victims of the World Trade Centre
outrage

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 11, 2002

SEPT 11: ONE YEAR ON PUBLIC WARNED TO BE ALERT AS THE WORLD BRACES ITSELF FOR
THE FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF BIN LADEN'S TERROR ATROCITIES; WAITING FOR AN ATTACK

BYLINE: By John Ingham in London and Julian Brouwer in New York

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2 3

LENGTH: 1128 words


THE world held its breath last night on the eve of the first anniversary of the
Twin Towers terrorist attacks amid fears of repeat atrocities.

As tension grew, America dramatically increased its terror alert status for the
first time to code orange - signalling a "high danger of attack" - and just one
below the highest level of threat.

US Attorney General John Ashcroft said the risk was most severe for American
targets overseas, especially in the Middle East, but he said government workers
should all report as normal this morning.

He said the warning came as a result of interrogation of an Al Qaeda member.

The FBI said there had been threats of strikes on New York and Washington, with
transportation networks, power plants and banks all named as possible targets.

In Britain, RAF fighters are on standby at bases across the country to intercept
any aircraft threatening a repeat of the September 11 attacks here.

There will be a massive presence of armed police on the streets, tighter
security at high-profile buildings like royal palaces, and more patrols around
US buildings like the American embassy in central London.

The police, military and emergency services are on high alert for attacks -
either by terrorists linked to Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda or lone mavericks.

The police fear that any number of groups could try to exploit the anniversary
to publicise their grievances.

RAF Tornado F3 fighters are on standby at RAF Coningsby in Lincolnshire, RAF
Leeming in Yorkshire and RAF Leuchars in Fife.

They will be scrambled if British radar or Awacs early warning planes spot any
airborne threat and then sent to intercept. The 1,480mph Tornados could be
ordered to shoot down any plane that is deemed to pose a threat.

A Tornado which flew up the Thames yesterday deepened the sense of alarm across
the capital, only for the RAF to reveal it was practising for a Battle of
Britain memorial flypast.

But the RAF has in recent months increased the number of fighters permanently on
standby since the September 11 attacks.

Police have warned the public to be on a state of "alert but not alarm". Around
London the police will form mobile armed road blocks as the first line of
defence.

Scotland Yard is overseeing an initiative codenamed Operation Calm, involving
other police forces, including the Ministry of Defence Police and the Royal
Parks Police. The British Transport Police has also called up officers from
around the country to patrol the London Underground and railways.

West Midlands Police confirmed that it already had contingency plans in place.
Merseyside Police said officers would pay "particular attention" to buildings
and public areas "as a precautionary measure".

Fears of a copycat attack have led thousands of worried travellers to refuse to
travel by air today. Many flights are cancelled because people are too
frightened to fly or are acting out of respect to victims killed in the World
Trade Center. The decision is a blow to the airline industry, which has
struggled to survive in the wake of the tragedy.

British Airways confirmed 26 of its 80 flights to and from America have been
scrapped today.

Virgin Atlantic, American Airlines and Air France have all reported a drop in
bookings. Virgin Atlantic and Lufthansa have both cut three flights to the US
today, and American Airlines has dropped four. And Britain's major airports are
also stepping up security.

At Gatwick there will be extra random vehicle checkpoints, more armed and
unarmed patrols within the terminals and outside and an increased police
presence. The seriousness with which the US is taking the sombre anniversary was
underlined when the White House revealed that the Vice-President Dick Cheney
spent Monday night at a "secure, undisclosed location". And last night the US
Navy issued an unprecedented warning against possible attacks by Al Qaeda on oil
tankers in the Gulf.

The Navy's Maritime Liaison Office in Bahrain warned ships to "exercise extreme
caution" in the Gulf region, which pumps a quarter of the world's oil.

Its statement read: "According to unconfirmed reports circulating within the
regional shipping community, the Al Qaeda terrorist group has planned attacks
against oil tankers transiting the Arabian Gulf and Horn of Africa areas."

The unprecedented warning immediately forced US crude oil prices up to a
19-month high of $ 30 a barrel.

In New York, armed police officers have been drafted into the city from all over
America just in case the unthinkable should happen again.

The White House has announced a string of extra security measures including
round-the-clock combat air patrols over New York and a ban on flying private
aircraft within 35 miles of the city.

Sharpshooters will be poised on the rooftops of buildings overlooking the United
Nations, where a general assembly meeting is taking place, while fighter jets
will patrol the skies around the clock. And the FBI is ready should terrorists
resort to chemical warfare.

The tightened security follows an FBI alert warning that the city could be
targeted by terrorists on the anniversary of the tragedy.

The military is conducting an air defence exercise around Washington that
includes launching jet fighters and deploying surface-to-air missile launchers,
officials revealed.

Heat-seeking anti-aircraft missiles have been stationed at bases, including the
Pentagon, this week in an initiative dubbed "Clear Skies 2".

The highest risk target is the Empire State Building which, since the demise of
the World Trade Center, has once again become New York's tallest building.

Many of the people evacuated from the towers last year are now occupying office
space at the vast structure, most famous for having King Kong as a visitor.

Anyone wanting to gain access to the Empire State will have to fight their way
through a cordon of police officers, before negotiating an assault course of
metal detectors and a crack team of security guards.

Elsewhere across the world, the countdown to the Twin Towers anniversary was
marked by ever-tighter security.

Turkey put its police on alert for a poison gas terror attack by Al Qaeda,
increasing security around US, British and Israeli diplomatic missions,
businesses and military bases. In Asia, terror fears prompted the closure of
three US embassies.

There was also a security clamp in the Philippines and a white-powder scare in
the mailroom of the US embassy in Wellington, New Zealand.

And the US State Department issued a worldwide warning to Americans to remain
especially vigilant, saying there was a "continuing threat of terrorist actions,
which may target civilians and include suicide operations".

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 11, 2002

MONEY EDITED BY DAVID PROSSER INVESTORS URGED TO HOLD THEIR NERVE AFTER ANALYSTS
SEE AN END TO THE FINANCIAL TURMOIL EXPERIENCED IN WAKE OF THE SEPTEMBER 11
TERRORIST ATTACKS ON AMERICA; SAVERS LOOK FOR SIGNS OF RECOVERY ONE YEAR ON

BYLINE: By David Andrews

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg.  39

LENGTH: 1059 words


LONG before the dust began to settle on the site of the World Trade Center, the
seismic aftershock hit global stock markets. Along with the massive human
tragedy, the financial consequences of the attacks have been colossal.

Private investors on both sides of the Atlantic watched share prices collapse in
the wake of September 11 but markets had been far from healthy before then.

They had been in the doldrums since the long bull run of the Nineties began to
end. The spectacular downturn of seemingly unstoppable dotcom ventures - in
which shares in the formerly glamorous technology, media and telecoms sector
plummeted - started the slump. And dismal economic news from Japan and Russia
did little for investor confidence.

Crucially, the US economy was already in desperate trouble long before September
11, with the threat of all-out recession just around the corner. And with
Britain's stock market so inextricably linked to the fortunes of Wall Street,
the attacks on the US had a devastating effect.

When markets reopened after the atrocities, dealers braced themselves for the
worst. The FTSE 100 index fell 6 per cent on the first morning of trading,
mirroring a similar plunge in America's key index, the Dow Jones Industrial.

Investors directly exposed to the stock markets - millions of savers with unit
and investment trusts or direct share holdings - all felt the effect of falling
prices. So did savers with pension plans and endowment-linked mortgages.

According to figures from data analyst Lipper, investors who put their GBP 7,000
maxi stocks-and-shares individual savings allowance into the average UK fund on
September 1, 2001 would have been left with just GBP 5,423 three weeks later.

The subsequent year has been a long and uncomfortable ride for investors.

After yo-yoing for months, the FTSE 100 index of leading shares seemed to be
dragging itself back up during August, following negative sentiment in the wake
of successive US corporate scandals but last week it collapsed again. Savers are
a long way off the glory days of the end of the Nineties, when commentators
predicted a break through the 7000 barrier.

Although no one - with the exception of the terrorists - could have predicted
the calamitous turn of events, many an economic "expert" has had to backpeddle
furiously, endlessly revising views on the future direction of the markets.

But one thing most commentators agree on is that investors should not sell their
holdings. Unit and investment trusts rarely come good in the short-term. By
sitting tight investors may have losses on paper but the consensus appears to be
that much of the negative sentiment has been squeezed out and markets are at or
near the bottom of the bear run.

RICHARD Prew, boss of Henderson's UK Equity Retail Growth Funds, says he is
"reasonably optimistic" about the prospects for the recovery that has so far
eluded investors. "The outlook for stock markets worldwide one year on from
September 11 still depends crucially on your view of the US economy, " he says.

"I envisage one of two developments: a slow but steady economic recovery with
continuing low inflation and I think the UK equity market is at least fairly
valued under this scenario. The alternative - and this is a minority view
involving a further slowdown in the US and a possible tip into deflation - is
the so-called 'double-dip' scenario, where the US slides back into recession.
Clearly uncertainty over Iraq will continue to hinder progress in the markets."

Prew says investors need to recognise that the era of bull markets and
doubledigit returns from shares is "firmly over". Consumers in the US and the UK
are benefiting from low interest rates, he adds, but debt levels are high and
these are difficult to get down in a low-growth, low-inflation world.

Despite the potentially gloomy prognosis, Prew says he still envisages growth
over the next 12 months. "Higher yielding and secure companies are the place to
be, still, in these conditions, " he says.

Investors remain cautious

RESEARCH from the Association of Investment Trust Companies shows that, one year
on from last September's attacks, many savers and investors are waiting for an
improvement in their job prospects and a resolution to the Iraq stand-off before
heading back into the markets.

The AITC's Daniel Godfrey says: "Investors have been waiting for a long time for
a silver lining to emerge from the gloom cast by volatile markets and it is
encouraging to see confidence starting to return. The message is getting through
that investment is for the medium-to-long-term."

James Dalby, senior research analyst at Bates Investment Services, says: "There
are reasons to be positive. You could be forgiven for surmising that all
investments have performed badly, but fixed-interest, property and cash have all
posted positive returns.

"Equities are still struggling to make headway and the threat of war on Iraq is
likely to hamper the markets. But the fundamentals of the global economy are
quite solid, with policymakers keeping a tight lid on inflation, which means the
low-interest-rate environment looks sustainable.

"When markets do turn I expect to see some healthy gains."

Advisers say it's time to be brave

MANY independent financial advisers are urging clients to get back into the
market following a dramatic slowdown in investment.

Share values are around 40 per cent off the highs reached at the end of the
Nineties and most commentators seem more optimistic that the market is at or
near the bottom of the long and damaging bear run.

History would appear to substantiate the current positive sentiment from many
fund managers; since 1869, the stock market has had 128 rolling five-year
periods - and in 123 of these periods it has finished the cycle higher than when
it started. Put more simply, the odds of losing money over five years are 5/128.

The last time the markets fell as sharply as they have since the beginning of
the year 2000 was in the early Seventies; for legendary American billionaire
investment guru Warren Buffett, a stock market crash is precisely the time to
get into shares.

In fact anyone who invested back in 1974, when the Seventies bear market was
bottoming out, would have shown a 102 per cent profit in 12 months.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

LETTER: THAT WAS THEN... SEPTEMBER 2001;
 BELOW WE REPRINT A SELECTION OF READERS' LETTERS PUBLISHED IN THE AFTERMATH OF
THE TERRORIST ATTACKS A YEAR AGO

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 788 words


Sir: Horror, revulsion and deep shame are my feelings, as an Arab and a Muslim,
after the events in the US. Horror at the scenes of devastation wreaked upon
civilians, revulsion at the motivation of these fanatics, and shame at the
reaction of some of those from my "community" around the world.

It is one thing to feel a certain misguided catharsis at these events when your
life is a daily struggle in a squalid refugee camp; it is another entirely when
you have been born and raised and enjoyed the benefits that life in the West has
given you, and still proclaim that justice has been served by this horrific
event.

In one fell swoop, these fanatics have set the various Islamic causes back
decades, just as the hijacking and bombing campaigns of the 1970s and 1980s did.
Those who would justify terrorism employ a utilitarian argument, that the end
justifies the means. Despite the fact that terrorism has never been proved to
have achieved its goals, no goal can be worth these means.

NASSER SAHLOOL

London W14

Sir: I am so relieved that Nick Kenyon, director of the Proms, has announced a
change to the traditional format of the last night of the Proms in the wake of
the atrocities perpetrated in the US. It would be unforgivable, and wholly
inappropriate, for such a jingoistic and imperialistic event to continue
unaltered. I hope this change will be permanent. Surely the last night should
celebrate peace, freedom and a world of partnerships.

ROBERT STEADMAN

Matlock, Derbyshire

Sir: As the dust settles on Manhattan's apocalyptically rearranged skyline and
the death toll mounts, America will, understandably, turn its mind towards
revenge. It would be wise for its allies to urge a thoughtful, calm initial
response.

As seen with the Clinton administration's disastrous retaliation for the Nairobi
embassy bombing, smart bombs aren't always so smart, US intelligence isn't
always so intelligent and, ultimately, there is no remote-controlled way to
engage such elusive forces - seeing the enemy may be required.

The bringing to trial of the Lockerbie bombing suspects shows that severe
international pressure on countries that harbour such terrorists can be a
rewarding method of attaining justice for the carnage of New York and
Washington.

ALAN GLYNN

Croydon, Surrey

Sir: Of course they were acts of war. Of course the United States is entitled to
defend itself, to seek vengeance for its losses and to expect solidarity form
its allies. Of course the perpetrators were criminals. But that, in a sense, is
the easy part. It will be harder to decide just who, and how numerous, is the
enemy with whom we are at war. How are we going to define victory and defeat?

No foreign government, with one exception, has endorsed the assault. But it
seems clear that large numbers of citizens in the Third World sympathise with
the attacks and welcome the evidence of the vulnerability of the developed world
and of the United States in particular.

We delude ourselves if we continue to describe the terrorists as cowardly. They
may be inhuman, wildly misguided and incomprehensibly extreme. But they are
intelligent, sophisticated and well organised. They are willing to sacrifice
their lives, something usually regarded as the ultimate evidence of bravery.
Tragically there are many young people willing to follow their example.

We delude ourselves if we continue to regard attacks on innocent civilians as
beyond the pale. If hate, anger and despair are great enough, civilian
populations will be attacked.

Sir MICHAEL ALEXANDER

London N6

The writer was British ambassador to Nato, 1986-92

Sir: The vicious attacks on New York and Washington demonstrate in frighteningly
stark terms how vulnerable a modern city is to terrorist attacks. It is as
symbolic as Guernica in the 1930s, a warning of the potential for warfare on a
scale and type nobody thought, or wanted to think, possible.

JOHN ORFORD

Middleton, Greater Manchester

Sir: Here in the US, I have just watched the news footage from London in which
the Changing of the Guard was suspended and the US national anthem was played. I
was moved beyond words (but not beyond tears) at the message of solidarity.

In 2000, I spent a summer partially in London and partially travelling
throughout Britain and Ireland. The trip changed my life and the way I view
international events. To now have the country of which I grew so fond extend its
hand in friendship and loyalty, when we are experiencing such heartbreak, is
very appreciated. Your country's kindness and loyalty will never be forgotten by
me or millions of my fellow Americans.

TERESA RAETZ

Athens, Georgia, United States

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

SEPTEMBER 11: ONE YEAR ON: US READY FOR TERROR ATTACKS;
 DAY OF TEARS AND RESOLVE SAYS BUSH

BYLINE: Tom Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 658 words


The US was today on a major security alert as it marked the September 11
anniversary, after a senior al Qaida officer provided "specific intelligence" of
more terror strikes.

Officials raised the warning to the second-highest level of orange, putting the
country and American interests abroad at "high risk of terrorist attacks".
Attorney General John Ashcroft said the intelligence related to planned strikes
against US interests overseas.

President George Bush today exhorted the United States to join him in a
reverential but defiant remembrance of the terror attacks.

The anniversary of September 11 should be "a day of tears, and a day of prayer
and a day of national resolve," he said.

"We have mourned the lost, honoured the living and celebrated the character of
our country," Bush said as he prepared for a pilgrimage around the sites of the
terror attacks a year ago.

Vice President Dick Cheney stayed out of sight to preserve the line of
presidential succession.

Nine US embassies were closed around the world and heightened security was put
in place in government buildings and US landmarks, following the warnings of
possible car bombings and suicide attacks.

Armed missile launchers were placed around Washington and airport security
workers were conducting extensive searches of bags and passengers. In New York,
extra police patrolled famous landmarks and places where there were
commemorative ceremonies taking place.

Scuba diving teams also scoured docks and harbours, police said, and there were
unannounced security checks at bridges and tunnels.

Guards at the New York Stock Exchange said the underground rail entrances around
the building and access to many streets in Lower Manhattan and around Ground
Zero would also be restricted.

The Pentagon also raised its terrorist alert for US military forces around the
world, including putting troops in Bahrain at the highest alert level, condition
Delta. Tom Ridge, the homeland security director, said plans for multiple
attacks on American targets in southeast Asia were in "an operational phase."
But officials urged people to carry on with their normal business, while
remaining alert.

President Bush said: "We will do everything we can to protect the American
people, and Americans need to go about their lives."

Police and security staff across the UK were also on a high alert.

Scotland Yard anti-terror chiefs warned last week that lone terrorists
unconnected to al Qaida could strike in a bid to exploit the "world stage".

Mobile armed road blocks were in place around London as a first point of
defence, and the public were warned to be on a state of "alert but not alarm".

The armed forces were also believed to have stepped up patrols and other
security measures.

A spokeswoman for Heathrow airport said 18 of today's scheduled transatlantic
flights had been cancelled by operators BA, Virgin and American Airlines.

"Security has been heightened since September 11 and it will remain at a
heightened state," she added.

A spokesman for Gatwick airport said only two scheduled flights to New York from
Gatwick had been cancelled by operator Continental Airlines.

Additional vehicle checks and armed patrols were planned at the airport in a bid
to ensure that the day passes peacefully.

"There will be increased high profile policing at the airport both as a
deterrent and to provide reassurance for the airport community and travelling
public," said a spokeswoman for Sussex Police.

Both Heathrow and Gatwick were observing the minute's silence at 1.46pm and were
staging special public memorial services in their chapels.

Head of Scotland Yard's AntiTerrorist Squad, Assistant Commissioner David
Veness, said last week that individual terrorists may see the anniversary as
offering a "world stage" for their own cause.

He urged everyone to be "vigilant" and to report anything unusual.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEW YORK REMEMBERS: A cross of girders from Ground Zero; HUG OF;
SADNESS: Memorial for British victims; LAST GOODBYE: Fireman Stan Blasky at
funeral; IN SORROW: Funeral procession for firefighter Peter Bielfeld on eve of
today's anniversary; HONOUR ROLL: Wives search for names of dead;; DISASTER
SCENE: The Manhattan skyline today

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 11, 2002

Terror attacks take heavy economic toll

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 562 words



BRITISH Airways tumbled from the prestigious FTSE 100 index today - just one of
the businesses around the world still feeling the shock waves of the September
11 terrorist attacks. After the Twin Towers crumbled, tourism suffered its worst
ever crisis and the impact on air travel was especially dramatic.

BA's demotion from the index of the UK's biggest quoted companies for the first
time in its history as a private company, rounds off a brutal year for the
company which suffered a pre-tax loss of GBP 200m, its worst financial
performance in 20 years. It axed jobs, capacity and routes as it - along with
other airlines - battled to cope.

The world's airline industry is predicted to have lost around GBP 9bn in the
last year, with GBP 7bn of that directly attributed to September 11. Airlines
and airports also pumped millions into improving security - believed to cost the
passenger an average GBP 7 extra per flight.

The US terror attacks wiped more than GBP 20m off Manchester Airport's annual
profits, with income down GBP 400,000 a week. In the six months following the
atrocities it carried 600,000 fewer passengers than expected. But the airport is
on the road to recovery. "Clearly, our passenger figures are of little
consequence compared with the human cost of September 11 and the terrible losses
suffered by the families of those who died or were injured," said the airport's
managing director John Spooner. "It took a couple of months for the effect of
September 11 on passenger figues to become apparent. The first real sign came
with the figures for November 2001, which were down 10.43 per cent. "We have
been recovering ever since and there is now strong evidence that we are almost
back to a pre-September 11 state of affairs. "The airport has been very busy
this summer, with over two million passengers in August alone - just 3.28 per
cent down on the same period last year. While many airports felt the impact of
September 11 on US routes, Manchester retained all its scheduled carriers to the
US and we have welcomed a number of new services in the past year."

The aerospace industry was also badly hit following a downturn in the market.
BAE Systems announced it was abandoning its regional jet programme and slashing
1,700 jobs - most of them in the north-west, including 1,000 at Woodford and 300
at Chadderton. But the prestigious Nimrod contract is set to herald a brighter
future for the company and more jobs.  It is unlikely that the total financial
cost of the tragedy will ever be known, but the attacks prompted the biggest
ever insurance claim with losses estimated to be at least GBP 35bn.

With the UK insurance market the third largest in the world, a significant
proportion of those losses were covered by insurers over here and the
consequences were principally felt by members of the International Underwriting
Association of London and by Lloyds. Customers have seen premiums rocket as the
insurance companies' perception of risk has been changed forever.

Small businesses now fear many will be forced out of business because of the
insurance "crisis", and warn they face crippling increases of up to 500 per
cent. However, the Association of British Insurers, says the issues facing the
industry cannot be blamed entirely on 9/11, and that premiums were on a general
upward trend beforehand.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Worried brokers watch the markets fall after the terrorist attacks.
Inset BA chief executive Rod Eddington has seen the company relegated from the
FTSE 100 Index.

                     Copyright 2002 Manchester Evening News

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

REMEMBERING HORROR OF A YEAR AGO;
 A YEAR AGO TODAY, MORE THAN 3,000 PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN THE TERRORIST ATTACKS
ON THE US WE LOOK AT HOW THE FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF THE TRAGEDY IS BEING MARKED IN
SOUTH WALES...

BYLINE: Phillip Nifield, Laura Nicklin, David James And Lucy Thorne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 438 words


SILENCE was descending on Cardiff today as people paused to remember the
September 11 terrorist attacks one year ago.

At 1.46pm - the time the first plane struck the World Trade Centre in New York
12 months ago - the city was slowing to a standstill as shoppers, lunchtime
drinkers, council workers, and congregations observed a twominute silence in
memory of the 2,810 people who died in the twin towers. Hundreds more died in
the other attacks on the Pentagon and on a hijacked plane in Pennsylvania.

The centrepiece of Cardiff's memorial was a commemorative service organised by
the Lord Mayor, Russell Goodway, at the Church of St John the Baptist in The
Hayes.

The Rector of Cardiff Central, Canon Malcolm Ellis, 67, was leading the 700
-strong congregation in his last service before he retires.

He said: "It's a rather sad occasion to be taking my last service, but one I'm
happy to do as my farewell to St Johns."

The Archbishop of Wales, Dr Rowan Williams, was giving the sermon, and an
American diplomat, Mrs Patricia Hoffman, was reading the first lesson.

The service was being relayed outside on speakers so passers-by could hear the
100-strong male voice choir, Cor Meibion, which joined the church choir for the
service.

People were also gathering outside City Hall, where a two-minute silence was
held.

Shoppers in many city centre stores, including Boots, Howells, and David Morgan,
were also pausing to observe the silence.

And lunchtime drinkers in pubs across Cardiff, from the Prince of Wales on St.
Mary Street to the Pen and Wig on Park Grove and the Plymouth Arms in St Fagans,
were asked to remain quiet.

In Cardiff Bay, people eating their lunch at the restaurants in Mermaid Quay and
Atlantic Wharf were also asked to remain silent to remember the victims.

Flights in and out of Cardiff International Airport continued as normal, but
travellers were stopping for the silence.

Spokeswoman Nicola Greaves said: "As far as flights are concerned it's business
as usual, but travellers have been asked to join in a one-minute silence and
staff have the chance to attend a service on the top floor taken by the airport
chaplain Duncan Ballantyre."

The church of St John the Evangelist in Canton opened its doors today for anyone
who wanted to find a moment of peace to remember the victims.

Reverend Christopher Coles said: "The church is usually only open for services,
but today anyone is welcome to come and offer a prayer, light a candle, or
simply sit in silence and remember."

The church, on St John Crescent, Canton, is open from 1-3pm and 57pm.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 11, 2002

Americans Are Put On A Heightened State Of Alert For Anniversary Of Terror
Attacks

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1061 words


The US administration last night raised its terror alert warning to its second
highest - Code Orange - signalling a "high risk" of attack ahead of today's
September 11 anniversary.  Security was increased at government buildings and
monuments and some US embassies abroad had been closed.

President George Bush said: "We take every threat seriously. The threats that we
have heard recently remind us of the pattern of threats that we heard prior to
September 11." He said there was no specific threat to the US mainland. But,
Attorney General John Ashcroft cited intelligence from a senior al Qaida
operative "of possible attacks on US interests overseas".

At the Pentagon, security was already heightened. A mobile surface-to-air
missile launcher - part of an exercise announced on Monday - was parked several
hundred yards away. Anti-aircraft missiles mounted on Humvee jeeps were ordered
into Washington and US air force jets are patrolling the skies on a
round-the-clock basis.

Mr Ashcroft said there was information about possible car bombings and other
attacks on US facilities in south Asian countries and the threat of a suicide
attack against US interests in the Middle East.

The State Department said the government was temporarily closing for public
business about two dozen US diplomatic posts worldwide.

Even before Ashcroft and Ridge made their announcement, Vice-President Dick
Cheney left the White House for a secure, undisclosed location, cancelling a
speech and sending the disappointed audience a videotaped address instead.

Mr Bush's own public schedule for September 11, including a major speech at the
Pentagon and a visit to New York's Ground Zero, remained unchanged.

Mr Ashcroft said the government was not urging Americans to change travel plans
or cancel events. Similarly, he said there was no call for government workers to
stay at home.

He said the US had gathered intelligence suggesting that such attacks are
intended to coincide with the September 11 anniversary of the terrorist attacks.

"Symbols of American power and authority, such as embassies, military facilities
and national monuments are possible targets," Mr Ashcroft said.

He said terrorists might "lash out in even small strikes," including car
bombings and other suicide attacks. He asserted that some al Qaida cells in
south Asia had been accumulating explosives since January. Security was also
being increased at military bases worldwide.

The orange level, which reflects a "high risk of terrorist attacks", is one step
below the top "red", or "severe risk". The level had been at "yellow", in the
middle of the five-colour scale.

Code Orange calls for US government officials to take extra precaution at public
events, including moving or cancelling them if necessary; and to co-ordinate
their efforts with the Army and law enforcement. Access to various government
installations is restricted to only "essential personnel".

Mr Ashcroft said Americans should remain "alert but defiant in the face of this
new threat".

Mr Ridge, speaking of the threat at home, said "specific protective measures"
would be taken by federal agencies as a result of the heightened alert status.
He mentioned more barriers around federal buildings and more inspections and
searches.

Americans should use their common-sense and be more alert to possible threats,
Mr Ridge said. "Be wary and be mindful," he cautioned.

"New information has become available very recently," including information
provided to the US intelligence community by a senior al Qaida official, Mr
Ashcroft told reporters. He added that the intelligence that led to the new
warning came within the last 24 hours.

The plans are believed to be linked directly to al Qaida, rather than one of its
affiliates. The senior al Qaida operative that provided some of the information
has been in the custody of an unidentified foreign country for several months,
but his identity has not been released.

Mr Ashcroft said intelligence has concluded that "the most likely al Qaida
targets are the transportation and energy sectors".

Mr Ridge added that US sky marshals would be out in force over the next few days
to foil any possible new hijacking attempts.

Mr Bush, speaking to reporters after a visit to the Embassy of Afghanistan, said
the new threat level "means our government will be providing extra security at
key facilities and that we'll be increasing surveillance".

"Americans need to go about their lives. They just need to know that their
government, at the federal and state and local level, will be on an extra level
of alert to protect us," he added.

Meanwhile, the General Services Administration, which operates and provides
security for most of the government's buildings, immediately alerted federal
agencies and put in place new security procedures.

The FBI had issued a warning that became public on Monday asking operators of
computer networks, utilities and transportation system to be wary during the
anniversary observance.

US Navy officials in Bahrain issued a warning to shippers following unconfirmed
reports that al Qaida may be planning attacks on oil tankers.

US intelligence officials have been saying since the weekend that there has been
an increased amount of chatter among al Qaida sympathisers.

US embassies in Malaysia and Indonesia were ordered to close because of specific
threats about potential terrorist activities in those countries.

The Queen praised the armed forces fighting terrorism, at an emotional memorial
service for British victims of September 11 in New York.

The Queen honoured the "courage and determination" of the people striving to
bring those responsible for the attack to justice, in a message read at last
night's service by Foreign Secretary Jack Straw.

"Right must and will prevail," she said.

The Queen also paid tribute to the strength of relatives of British victims of
the attack at the service in St Thomas Church in Manhattan, on the eve of the
anniversary of the attack.

Families of 34 UK victims were at the ceremony, many in tears, as they heard the
Queen's words recalling their loved ones.

Susan Rescorla, whose Cornish-born husband Rick died evacuating people from the
burning World Trade Centre, said: "I am sick to the stomach".

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                         September 11, 2002, Wednesday

SEPTEMBER 11 THE LEGACY: GUTS AND GOODWILL HAVE HELPED MARKETS THROUGH;
  SEPTEMBER 11: IMPACT OF TERROR ATTACKS HAS BEEN ATTENUATED - ASSOCIATE PARTNER
AT CARDIFF STOCKBROKERS BREWIN DOLPHIN, HARRY LEWIS, ASSESSES THE PERFORMANCE OF
THE WORLD'S EQUITY MARKETS SINCE THE ATTACKS OF SEPTEMBER 11.

BYLINE: Harry Lewis

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 574 words


AS the Stock Exchange joins much of the world in observing two minutes' silence
at 13.46 today, it remains difficult to analyse the effect in economic terms of
last year's awful events in New York.

The terrorist attacks were without precedent both in terms of scale and -
importantly - the effect on the national psyche of the world's most powerful and
economically influential country. In purely economic terms, the timing could
hardly have been worse. At the time fears of a downturn in the US (and
consequently globally) were rife and it now seems obvious that the attack
hastened the inevitable as America dipped into a shallow recession in October
2001.

It was short-lived and by Christmas most commentators were expecting the US
economy to resume a strong growth trend through 2002. As we approach the last
quarter it seems these predictions may have been premature; indeed the current
fear is that of the so-called double-dip recession in the US. This, with the
benefit of hindsight, gives credence to the theory that the attacks themselves
hurried both the recession last autumn and the recovery from it as the US
consumer wrapped himself in Old Glory and spent as ordered for the health of
Uncle Sam.

Alan Greenspan, head of the Federal Reserve, was not idle either. In the
aftermath of 9/11, there was an anger and determi-nation not to allow the
terrorists to inflict further economic damage on the US economy.

Central banks worldwide supported financial markets and leaned heavily on
leading financial institutions to do the same. Any US hedge fund trying to
"short" the market big time, found itself friendless. Low inflation allowed room
to sharply drop interest rates, with the Fed showing the way. Stock markets, if
not strong, remained relatively stable. Then in spring this year came Enron and
WorldCom with all the issues raised by the alleged accounting fraud and
corporate misgovernance that that entailed. It is hard to overestimate the
effect on a fragile US economy (and stock markets) that these bankruptcies had
on confidence.

Perhaps the most relevant legacy, in economic terms, left by September 11th is
the political fallout in the Middle East as the US ratchets up its war on
terrorism to consider Iraq.

I am not of the view that oil is the major consideration of the President as he
weighs options but any analysis of a potential conflict in that area has to
consider the implications on the ongoing availability and price of the economic
world's most important mineral. Financial markets hate uncertainty above all
else and if they could talk would be blunt on their requirements. They will
discount a war that is decisive, quick and provides an outcome that is stable.

If brutality can often describe the reaction of financial markets, it is not
necessarily true of traders. My recollection of that afternoon in this office,
supported by a check through the dealing sheets, is of a very quiet trading
period. That is a bland assessment of a time of greatest uncertainty and
horrific pictures.

As FTSE markets fell - and sharply - the phone calls made from and to this
private client stockbroking office were by way of conduit of information not to
sell equities or look for a buying opportunity. Knee-jerk reactions have proved
wrong in the past and anyway the events seemed at the time to transcend thoughts
of personal wealth that day a year ago and I hope will again today.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INCREDULITY: A Japanese man watches a tv screen displaying the chart of
Tokyo stocks falling for a fourth straight session

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 12, 2002, Thursday

FIREFIGHTERS LEAD SILENT REFLECTION;
 SEPTEMBER 11 REMEMBERED SILENT TRIBUTE: Firefighters from Leamington Fire
Service pay their respects to the thousands of people who lost their lives in
the terrorist attacks one year ago. Picture: MARK RADFORD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 190 words


LEAMINGTON town centre came almost to a halt as people remembered what happened
a year ago.

In Warwick Street more than 30 firefighters, control room staff and Warwickshire
Ambulance personnel gathered outside the fire station for a minute's silence.

As the Union flag was lowered to half-mast, they were joined by nearby office
staff and passers-by to reflect on the horrific events of 12 months ago.

Joining the fire crews was Ralph Gleeson, aged 35, of Waverley Road.

He had come down to join his friends in the fire service and to remember
colleagues he had known when living in New York.

He said: "I was so shocked to see the events of last year. I have been up the
twin towers at least twice and know New York quite well.

"I think you feel it a little bit more when it is a place you connect with," Mr
Gleeson said.

At Tesco's in the Parade, and at the Royal Priors shopping centre, tills were
shut and shoppers stood still.

Some churches, including St Mark's in St Mark's Road, Leamington, and Holy
Trinity, in Stratford, held special services or invited people in for periods of
quiet reflection.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 12, 2002, Thursday

Muslims condemn terrorist attacks

BYLINE: By Neil Tweedie and Sean O'Neill

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 328 words

THE Muslim son of the Labour politician Frank Dobson joined fellow British
Muslims yesterday in condemning the September 11 attacks.

Joe Ahmed-Dobson, who converted to Islam in 1998, said attributing terrorism to
Islam was grossly offensive.

Mr Ahmed-Dobson, 26, said most Muslims condemned attacks on civilians which
violated the principles of their religion.

He was speaking at a meeting at the Central London Mosque near Regent's Park to
mark the first anniversary of the terrorist attacks. The event was organised by
the Islamic Society of Britain and Young Muslims UK, two organisations which
have consistently condemned the attacks.

Mr Ahmed-Dobson said: "Those who carried out the attacks in the United States
apparently attribute their actions to Islam. This attribution was, and continues
to be, grossly offensive to the overwhelming majority of the three million
Muslims in the UK and one billion Muslims across the globe."

Outside the Finsbury Park mosque in north London last night, hundreds of police
were deployed as Islamic extremists held a conference to mark the anniversary of
the September 11 attacks.

The event, entitled A Towering Day in History, was addressed by Sheikh Abu Hamza
al Masri, Imam of the mosque, who is under investigation by the FBI, and other
leading radicals.

They had claimed that more than 1,000 people would attend, but the numbers
entering the mosque - a four-storey building close to Arsenal football stadium -
were small.

Young men, their faces covered with headscarves, stood at the doors of the
building, and refused permission for members of the media to go inside.

Al-Muhajiroun, the group which organised the conference, said the radicals
present would be announcing the creation of an Islamic Council of Britain to
rival the moderate Muslim Council of Britain.

Police arrested a man nearby who was shouting abuse. A three-inch knife was
found on him.
[PS]News: [ES]

September 11 - America:

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                               September 12, 2002

The Global Attack On Terrorism

SECTION: Features; DIY; Makeovers; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 288 words


"Though they died in tragedy, they did not die in vain. Their loss has moved a
nation to action in a cause to defend other innocent lives across the world."
With these words President George Bush yesterday led America's observance of the
anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11.

On a day when most of the world joined America to remember the 3,000 innocents
who perished, Mr Bush made sure that the opponents in the "war against
terrorism" were not forgotten.

But while the message of definace resounds from across the Atlantic and inside
Downing Street, the name of the man held responsible for the attrocities, Osama
bin Laden, is not mentioned as loudly as it once was.

Instead, Saddam Hussein has replaced him as the focus of the global campaign
against terrorism.

But it is because of this that the coalition of support, borne from the ashes of
September 11, has faltered.

Many allies of Mr Bush do not want a war with Iraq because it has no strong
connection with the events of a year ago.

Thankfully Mr Bush appears to have realised that this is not America's war and
that it cannot morally go it alone in the war against terrorism.

Today Mr Bush is due to address the United Nations in New York to canvass
international support for action against Iraq.

In the same spirit, Tony Blair is to recall parliament for a debate which will
put MP's and peers "at the heart of the debate on the Iraq crisis".

The anniversary of September 11 was a day to remember and a day to mourn.

But, with the thoughts of the world focussed on America, it was also a day which
reinforced the fact that a war against terrorism can only be won with
international cooperation.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               September 12, 2002

MUSLIMS UNDER PRESSURE IN THE AFTERMATH OF SEPTEMBER 11 TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: News; People; Clubs/Groups; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 612 words


Grimsby's thriving Muslim community has been the target of many forms of racial
prejudice since September 11 and, a year on, on they are still showing a brave
face.  "For us September 11 is going to come every year. We experienced the same
problems after the Gulf War," said a member of the muslim community, Dr
Mohammed.

"We have had eggs thrown at our front door several times. It has to be racial.
There were also skirmishes that occurred but they wax and wane, only to peak
suddenly.

"History has shown us that often the most innocent end up suffering and in
Grimsby it appears to be some of the Muslim children who have had to bear the
brunt of these racial attacks.

"The main problem we face now is with our children at school, they are more
exposed than the adults. My son has been the target of abuse from many children.
We informed the school authorities but they simply brushed it under the carpet,"
said Dr Mohammed.

The attacks on September 11 and the subsequent stigma attached to Islam has also
engendered a slash in funding for the Muslim community in Grimsby, he claimed.

"Our facilities are very limited and we have no help from the council or the
Government. It is the Muslim community that keeps the mosque.

"Our community is growing annually but our facilities have not been improved.
The Sikhs wanted a new temple and they were promptly given GBP 150,000 but we
cannot get any money for a mosque. The most we can do is apply for funding for a
community centre." The heart of the area's Muslim community is the Islamic
Community Centre in Stanley Street, Grimsby, which is run by Imam Nawab.
Appointed in 1994, he has been the representative of the Muslim community in the
town for the past eight years.

"Of course there was a bit of tension after September 11 but it went away. I
have twins at Welholme Infants School and they have been very happy there. I
have had no problems whatsoever," he said.

"When I go into town I do not change my traditional dress and nor does my wife.
We have only experienced a few minor abuses, but nothing serious. We are free to
practise our religion and are denied no rights." Mr Nawab has certainly had to
face other challenges as a spokesman for Islam - a religion that has been
examined and debated about at length over the past 12 months.

"You can't blame the whole of Islam for what happened on September 11.
Similarly, you cannot condemn all Christians just because the Serbs committed
unspeakable atrocities in the Balkans." He was quick to lay blame on some
aspects of the media coverage.

"Part of the current problem has to do with the ignorance and the influence of
the media which has a powerful impact on people's minds. They have not portrayed
the Muslim community correctly," he claimed.

"We should be tolerant towards each others' faiths. We need to liaise and
communicate." When asked about his opinion on a possible US and British-led
strike on Iraq, Imam Nawab was quick to condemn it.

"The US should review their foreign policy. The mood has changed towards America
since September 11. In the beginning everyone was behind them and now they are
struggling to build a coalition," he said.

The strong sense of community among the Muslims in Grimsby can be seen in the
Arabic language school set up at the Freeman Street Resource Centre in Kent
Street.

On Sundays, children attend intensive Arabic grammar classes. The initiative was
independently funded.

According to a study carried out by the Islamic Community Centre, there are
currently approximately 150 Muslim households in Grimsby alone.

newsdesk@grimsbytelegraph.co.uk Caption:

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 12, 2002, Thursday

INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES FAILED THE US OVER TERROR ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Pippa Crerar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 389 words


THE American public could have been alerted to last year's terrorist attacks
with a chance of neutralising them were it not for a "catastrophic failure of
American government", the chairman of the US Senate Intelligence Committee said
yesterday.

Senator Bob Graham said that the intelligence agencies and immigration service
had been a significant part of that failure.

Senator Graham, a Democrat, told BBC Radio 4's The World at One, "It was a
catastrophic failure of American government. Yes, the intelligence agencies were
a significant part of that failure to alert the American people, but there were
other agencies such as our immigration service which did not acquit themselves
well in the period before September 11."

It would not have been impossible to prevent an attack, Senator Graham added.

"It would have been difficult but not impossible. It was a significant amount of
information either collected or collectable that would have given important
pieces of information about the plans of the hijackers.

"The problem is that all of that information never got before the eyes of a
single analyst or group of analysts who could have put the jigsaw together
sufficiently and seen an emerging picture and with luck found and disabled the
plot before it was executed," said the Senator.

American security forces were better informed now than they were a year ago, he
added.

"They are better informed. We have enhanced liaison relations with other
countries which have a longer history and understanding of the areas of the
world in which Americans have been relatively limited in their natural
experience, particularly in central Asia.

"We are also working hard to diversify our intelligence agencies. Those agencies
grew up in the Cold War when we had one big enemy, the Soviet Union.

"But we did not prepare linguistically or culturally or in the diversity of
backgrounds of our agents, to be able to operate in the 20 or 30 countries which
are now of major interest to the United States."

The Senator said that he believed that Osama bin Laden was still alive, and
probably living in the tribal areas that straddle the borderlands between
Pakistan and Afghanistan.

Senator Graham said that he was "convinced" that Osama bin Laden would
eventually be found and brought to justice.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 13, 2002

Anger over NY snub for PSNI;
 Police 'were not welcome at service for terror attacks'Police 'were not welcome
at service for terror attacks'

BYLINE: By Ben Lowry

LENGTH: 459 words


A SENIOR Catholic churchman in New York said today that he was "distressed" to
learn that five PSNI officers were told they were not welcome at a service that
he conducted in memory of the victims of September 11.

Monsignor Tom Leonard, the pastor of Holy Trinity Roman Catholic Church in
Manhattan, celebrated the Irish Community Mass on Tuesday night, the eve of the
first anniversary of the terrorist attacks.

The service was jointly sponsored by Eugene Hutchinson, the Irish Consul General
in New York.

It is understood that when the five officers entered the church on the Upper
West Side a man told them that they were not welcome.

It is believed that an Irish diplomat was informed of the remarks and spoke to
the officers and two of the PSNI constables came in and stood at the rear of the
church. After the service, they left with their three colleagues in a New York
Police Department car.

According to one witness, the PSNI officers appeared "tense and awkward" after
the incident.

Monsignor Leonard said he had heard reports that a man wearing a sash
representing an Irish organisation had made the remarks.

"I am distressed this could happen," he said. "To say you cannot come is
ridiculous. We do not have any ushers in this church and we would not have done
that."

Monsignor Leonard said he had been asked on Sunday by a Lieutenant Costello of
the NYPD if he could bring the five PSNI officers to the service.

"I said we would be happy to have them. We are open to anyone coming in. We are
mourning the numbers who are dead and also trying to bind up the wounds and
gather our strength and recognise that we are one family of nations under God."

Monsignor Leonard said he was trying to trace who might have made the remarks.

"It is not their church, it is my church. I personally invited, through
Lieutenant Costello, the police officers from Northern Ireland.

"Whoever was speaking, spoke only for themselves and not for the church or the
people in my neighbourhood."

The area around the church on 82nd Street used to be strongly Irish and German
but is now characterised in terms of its affluence, being popular with wealthy
young professionals.

The Irish tenor, Ronan Tynan, sang at the service and the Foreign Minister,
Brian Cowen, gave a reading.

The PSNI officers had come from another memorial service honouring the dead of
September 11 in an Anglican cathedral.

A spokesman for the Police Federation said: "I would be disappointed if this
were true, given that the PSNI raised nearly £40,000 for the emergency services
of New York in the wake of September 11."

"Armaments and boycotts have not solved problems and we ought to try prayer,"
Mons. Leonard added.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               September 14, 2002

THROTTLED WOMAN WITH HIS OWN SOCK; 'SLEEPING TERROR' STRANGLE ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 230 words


A MAN who strangled a woman with a sock is facing jail despite claiming he did
it in his sleep.

Fish factory worker Ewan Mackay, 22, woke in his car to find he was tightening
his sock around friend Kirsty Kennedy's neck.

The High Court in Inverness was told Mackay suffered from a sleeping disorder
which caused him to act violently.

He later ran off to London to commit suicide but was found in time by police.

Mackay, of Dingwall, Rossshire, admitted assaulting Miss Kennedy by repeatedly
tightening a ligature around her neck.

Mackay and Miss Kennedy were friends and had gone drinking with Mackay downing a
lot of whisky.

Advocate-depute Edward Targowski, QC, said the pair drove to Aonach Mor car park
in Fort William in the early hours of February 26 and fell asleep.

Just before 5am Miss Kennedy woke with pressure around her neck.

Mr Targowski said:

"'He said: 'Don't scream. Don't shout.'

"The pressure was so tight she thought she was going to pass out.

Later. he said he could not believe what he had done.

Miss Kennedy was taken to Belford Hospital in Fort William where her injuries
were described as severe.

Defence Counsel Peter Gray said the case was "highly unusual" as Mackay suffered
from a sleeping disorder and was not conscious of his actions.

Lord Judge Bonomy deferred sentence for two months for reports.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 Express Newspapers

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Estates Gazette

                               September 14, 2002

OCCUPIERS SHY AWAY FROM SITE OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Adam Coffer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 242 words


    Fewer than a third of the companies that had offices damaged or destroyed by
the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center have returned to downtown New
York.

    A report from the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council says that of
the 1,134 firms that employed 114,124 people and used 35.4m sq ft of space that
was destroyed or damaged, only 311 firms have returned to the area.

    Those firms now employ 53,469 workers in just 18.7m sq ft of offices.

    The report shows that almost a third of the firms that left the downtown
area settled elsewhere in Manhattan. The bulk of the relocations were in
Midtown, where 192 of the companies put down new roots, according to the study.

    Outside New York City, top relocation choices included Jersey City in New
Jersey, Long Island, Westchester and Connecticut. Thirty-one companies moved to
other US locations and 200 could not be traced, according to NYMTC figures.

    Despite so much office space being wiped out of the market, vacancy rates
continue to rise and rents are dropping as the downturn in the economy has
eroded the need for corporate space.

    Scale of disruption

    l The attacks destroyed 14m sq ft of office space and damaged a further 21m
sq ft

    The displaced firms range from investment and finance, which had 318
companies, to travel agency, hospitality and education firms, which each had
fewer than five displaced occupiers

    www.reedbusiness.com/comprop.htm

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Magazine

                 Copyright 2002 Reed Business Information Ltd.

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 14, 2002

WOMAN AT DINER OVERHEARING PLOTTING A TERROR ATTACK IN MIAMI

SECTION: WAR ON TERROR

LENGTH: 50 words


    THREE jokers sparked a huge police chase in Florida, seen by millions on
live TV, after a woman at a diner reported overhearing them plotting a terror
attack in Miami.

    The three turned out to be innocent medical students.

    The Sun Says - Page Eight

    Hope out of tragedy - Pages 12-13


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 14, 2002

Police thwart 'terror attack on Miami'

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 171 words


THREE men were last night being held by police in America after officers
intercepted a suspected terrorist operation.

A 20-mile stretch of road in Southern Florida was closed off and a package
detonated following a tip-off.

Officers stopped the two cars travelling on the Everglades road, known as
Alligator Alley, and sealed off the area as bomb sniffer dogs moved in.

The dogs drew police to material in the two cars in which the men were
travelling .

Explosive charges were then used to blast open what appeared to be a backpack
taken from one of the vehicles.

The three men were detained, but had not been arrested.

The alarm was raised after a waitress in neighbouring Georgia told police she
overheard three Middle Eastern men discussing a possible attack on Miami.

She said the men were talking about amounts of explosives and warned that
Americans would "cry on 9/13, " said Miami Police Lieutenant Bill Schwartz.

Last night the identities or ages of the suspects were not known.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 15, 2002

Paramedics ready for terror attacks.

BYLINE: Glen Little

SECTION: Sport

LENGTH: 273 words



IT'S a chilling scene and one which Bolton paramedics hope will never happen.

One is pictured wearing a new space age suit to treat a patient in a
decontamination chamber -- in the event of a nuclear or chemical attack.

The yellow fluorescent suits, the first to be dispatched in the country, were
officially unveiled at Bury ambulance station.

Since September 11, the Government has provided more than GBP 9 million to equip
emergency workers in the event of a terrorist attack in the UK.

Paramedic David Cartwright, from Bolton, is in charge of training emergency
crews to use the new gear in readiness for the Commonwealth Games, when security
will be at its tightest.

The suits feature charcoal filters and a respirator to allow the wearer to
breathe clean air.

Paramedics can only stay in the suits for up to 20 minutes -- enough time to
deal with eight to 10 patients, says Mr Cartwright.

The costumes are designed to withstand lethal gases, chemicals and
radioactivity.

More than 150 suits have been sent to the region, with six Wigan and Bolton
paramedics chosen to start training staff in how to use them.

Mike Hynes, pictured wearing the costume, described the suit as warm but
comfortable -- although at more than six foot tall, he was having difficulty
seeing through his visor.

Communications manager John Williams said: "We have never had any suits before
and these are a first for the country. They are proving very popular with lots
volunteers coming forward to train.

"Every ambulance service and accident and emergency unit in the country is being
given suits following September 11."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                               September 18, 2002

Gang attack terror

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 243 words


BRAVE passers-by saved a man from serious injury as he was repeatedly kicked in
the head during a brutal attack in Rotherham.

A gang attacked the man near Ellies takeaway in Wellgate at 2.30am on Saturday
as he lay helpless on the ground.

Only the intervention of four people, including two women, stopped the attack -
and then they too were assaulted by the thugs.

Detectives are appealing for witnesses to the assault, which they say could have
killed the man if the passers-by had not helped.

The group of 'Good Samaritans' were left cut and bruised after being punched by
a gang of up to ten people, but none were badly hurt.

A police spokesman said: This was a vicious assault which could have resulted in
the victim being killed.

He was being repeatedly kicked in the head and body while on the ground which
could have caused very serious injuries.

The people who intervened to stop the attack were also set upon by a gang of
around 10 who surrounded them.

We would like anyone who saw the attack or who has information about the
incident to come forward and help us. This was a very nasty attack.

The principal victim managed to get up and leave the scene, and police are
anxious to trace him.

Anyone with information should call Rotherham CID on 0114 220 2020.

n A Rotherham woman remains seriously ill in the Royal Hallamshire Hospital
after an incident three weeks ago in the early hours of Bank Holiday Monday.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 19, 2002, Thursday

TERROR ATTACK HELP

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 90 words


BIOTECH firm Acambis is gearing up to ship the first doses of a vaccine designed
to protect US citizens from bioterrorist attacks.

Acambis is due to supply the US government with two smallpox vaccines for use in
the event of bioterrorist attacks.

It is developing the drugs based on the vaccine which eradicated the disease in
the 1970s but with modern manufacturing techniques.

Phase III trials for both are due to start in 2003 but now Cambridge-based
Acambis said it was ready to ship the first of 209 million doses.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 19, 2002, Thursday

'WE CAN'T AFFORD TO SAVE YOU FROM TERROR ATTACK';
 DISASTER PLANNERS' CASH PLEA

BYLINE: Exclusive By Bob Roberts Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 191 words

HIGHLIGHT: RISKS: Tom Brake


EMERGENCY planners are being starved of vital funding, a report published today
says.

Experts in charge of dealing with terrorist attacks, floods and disease
epidemics have had their grants from Government slashed in the past 10 years.

Research shows town halls in England and Wales will get pounds 18.9million for
civil defence this year - down 16 per cent since 1990.

Liberal Democrat MP Tom Brake, chairman of the National Council for Civil
Protection, said lives were being put at risk.

He added: "The public expects the emergency services to react effectively to
catastrophe. We can't afford to underfund."

The Emergency Planning Society said the grant should be pounds 70million a year.
Spokesman Mike Slaney said: "Many emergency professionals are concerned the next
incident may expose the weaknesses in our system."

A Cabinet spokesman said: "When the Cold War was on the grant was far greater
than it is now. It dropped in the 1990s but increased by pounds 4million
recently."

He said the Government was planning new measures in the Civil Contingencies Bill
to reorganise the way emergencies are dealt with.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 21, 2002, Saturday

CARNIVAL SALES CONTINUE TO SLUMP AFTER TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 291 words


US CRUISE giant Carnival, currently embroiled in a hostile bid for UK rival P&O
Princess, yesterday showed how revenues continued to suffer following last
year's terror attacks.

The world's number one cruise operator reported a 1.2 per cent rise in net
income to 500.8 million US dollars (pounds 322.3 million) for the three months
to August 31.

But the third-quarter figures included a tax benefit of 34 million US dollars
(pounds 21.9 million) from an Italian tax law affecting its Costa Cruise
business.

That was partly offset by a 20 million US dollars (pounds 12.9 million) write-
down on a boat, while cancelled cruises cut 13 million US dollars (pounds 8.4
million) from earnings.

Total revenues fell 3.5 per cent to 1.44 billion US dollars (pounds 926.6
million) while cruise revenues fell 1.4 per cent, after a decline in customers
buying air transportation from the company and lower cruise ticket prices.

However, an increase in cruise capacity of 2.2 per cent partially offset the
decline.

Regarding its pending offer for P&O Princess, Carnival said the Federal Trade
Commission's investigation was nearing completion.

P&O Princess, the world's number three operator, has been fighting Carnival's
bid while pursuing a merger with Miami-based Royal Caribbean Cruises, the number
two operator.

The European Commission earlier this summer cleared Carnival's hostile bid and
UK regulators have endorsed Royal Caribbean's merger with Princess.

The battle began in November when Royal Caribbean and Princess agreed to merge
in a 3.7 billion US dollars (pounds 2.4 billion) deal.

But, Carnival quickly followed up with a plan to buy Princess for around 5.4
billion US dollars (pounds 3.5 million).

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 23, 2002, Monday

TAXI PERVERT FACES PRISON FOR ATTACKS;
 CABBIE'S TERROR TRIPS

BYLINE: Caitlin Mackay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 395 words

HIGHLIGHT: MENACE: Alexander Downie is now facing jail after assaulting
passengers in his taxi


A PERVERT taxi driver who put young women through terrifying sexual ordeals is
facing jail.

Twisted Alexander Downie talked dirty to women as he ferried them home from
nightspots, a court heard.

One victim sobbed as she told Falkirk Sheriff Court how she became hysterical
when the 6ft 2ins cabbie groped her.

Downie, 56, of Grangemouth, Stirlingshire, denied placing three women passengers
in a state of fear and alarm by making indecent remarks. He also denied sexually
assaulting two of them.

But after a three-day trial, a jury convicted him of two sex attacks and one
charge of frightening a woman with his dirty talk.

The women passengers - two aged 20 and one a 18-year-old student - stressed they
didn't know each other.

All said Downie told them how he was offered oral sex by a female passenger who
couldn't pay her fare.

Miss B, 20, of Falkirk, told the trial of her nightmare after getting into the
back seat of Downie's cab on September 28 to go home from a nightclub in
Bainsford.

She said: "He started telling me about someone who couldn't pay - that she would
give him oral sex."

When the cab pulled up at her house, Downie dropped her change. She said: "I
bent down to pick it up. He drove away. I was in a panic."

Downie then drove his terrified victim to a dark and deserted industrial estate
at Middlefield, in Falkirk.

He got into the back of the taxi and told her: "I'm bored. I need some
excitement."

She added: "He tried to kiss me. He touched my breasts.

"He got my head and tried to get me to perform oral sex.

"I pushed him off. I managed to get out and run away. I was hysterical."

Miss A, an 18-year-old student, said Downie made the same indecent remarks to
her.

Miss C, 20, said he used the same dirty talk before he assaulted her by rubbing
her leg.

Downie gave no evidence.

The jury convicted him of assaulting Miss B but rejected allegations of
abduction and trying to force her to perform a sex act.

They found him guilty of assaulting Miss C and convicted him of placing her in
fear and alarm.

They found Downie not guilty of making indecent remarks to Miss A and B.

Sheriff Andrew Murphy deferred sentence for reports. Ordering Downie to be held
in custody, he warned the cab driver that he faced jail.

Downie was also placed on the Sex Offenders Register.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                               September 24, 2002

City Student Relives Night Attack Terror

SECTION: News; 999; Theft; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 374 words


A teenage student today told of her terrifying mugging in Aberdeen. Wilma
Struthers, 18, was repeatedly punched in the head after being forced to the
ground by her attacker.

The young man pounced at Bedford Road, near Aberdeen University, at around
10.45pm yesterday.

Wilma was walking home after visiting a friend when she suspected she was being
followed.

As she tried to phone a pal, he ran up behind her and unleashed a vicious
assault.

Wilma, who is a second year psychology student, said: "As soon as I put the
phone up to my ear he started running and knocked or punched me to the ground.

"I went down and then he just kept punching my head.

"I don't know where my phone landed. My friend answered it but couldn't hear
anything apart from cars and hung up.

"I kicked out at him with my legs and started screaming. He reached out to put
his hand over my mouth and I bit him. I don't know if I broke the skin.

"He tried to pull my bag from me but I was wearing it across my chest.

"The force of him trying to get the bag was lifting me off the ground.

"The bit of the bag he was holding ripped off and he ran up through the wire
mesh gate." Shocked and hysterical, Wilma started walking home and two young
women who saw her crying phoned the police and ambulance.

Pal Clare Rimmington, 19, went with her to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary's accident
and emergency department where she was kept under observation for two hours.

She was allowed home but has been warned to take things easy for a couple of
weeks.

Wilma, originally from Perth, was due to break the news to her parents and two
sisters later today.

Nursing several egg-shaped lumps to her head and bruising, she vowed never to
walk home alone again.

"At the time, I was shocked more than anything and I'm really angry today," said
Wilma. "I guess it's just a warning what can happen in a five minute walk." It
is not known if the mugger made off with Wilma's silver Nokia 33 phone.

The attacker is aged between 16 an 25, 5ft 8in and slim.

He was wearing a grey hooded sweatshirt with a light blue stripe on the sleeves
and chest and dark jeans.

He may have followed her from Elphinstone Road through Meston Walk to Bedford
Road.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 24, 2002, Tuesday

MIDLAND QUAKE: TERRORIST ATTACK OR HAD A PLANE CRASHED? TERRORIST ATTACK OR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 538 words


Fears of terrorist attacks and the threat of subsiding buildings gripped the
minds of people across the Midlands during yesterday's earthquake.

Many people believed Birmingham had been targeted by terrorists as they felt the
ground shake.

For others, the first instinct was to take to the streets, some out of curiosity
but others because of a fear that their homes could collapse on top of them.

Among the people who con-tacted The Birmingham Post's websitewas Ann Kelly, from
Yardley, Birmingham, who was reading in bed when the earthquake struck.

She said: 'All of a sudden everything started shaking. The whole house was
moving.

'It was a tingling and shaking sound as if a freight train was passing, but more
sustained. I sort of knew it could only be an earthquake, and I felt really
frightened and completely helpless.

'My husband, who was downstairs at the time, thought there was a truck headed
into our house, but because I was at the front of the house I heard no traffic
noise. 'I later read that the quake lasted 20 seconds, but it seemed a lot
longer. I went downstairs and saw my face in the mirror; I looked like a ghost.

'All of us went outside and there was an eerie silence.'

Yvonne McGowan, from Solihull, said: 'I heard a very loud rumbling sound. I
walked out on to the landing just as it got louder and the whole house began to
shake.

'It seemed to last for about ten seconds. The shaking really was quite severe
and frightening. Initially I thought the city had been hit by a bomb.'

Helen Plumbe, from Great Barr, Birmingham, said: 'We felt the entire house
shaking. The strange thing was the feeling of build up to the strongest point,
the loud bang and then nothing - more or less complete silence apart from
people's alarms.

'I have never been so frightened in all my life.'

Paul Broome, from Stechford, Birmingham, feared a plane had crashed. He said:
'As I live in the flight path for Birmingham Airport I considered the worst. My
initial concern was that a plane had came down.'

A similar fear was expressed by Julie Lawrence who said: 'I live not far from
Birmingham Airport and thought that a plane had crashed. I was very startled
because I didn't know if I had been dreaming it or not.'

Ken Smith, from Shard End, Birmingham, said: 'I was awoken by the noise and my
children panicking throughout the whole experience, because they had not known
what was going on.

'Its one of the worst experiences that I have ever had to go through, worse than
the mini tornado that I experienced in America in 1996.'

Billy Harker, of Highgate, Birmingham, said the tremors caused people from his
neighbourhood to take to the streets out of fear their blocks of flats could
collapse.

He said: 'The buildings shook with such ferocity that everyone took to the
streets because we all thought that there had to be structural damage.'

However, Mark Northall, of Gornal Wood, Dudley, was unaffected by the quake -
even though he was in bed practically on top of the epicentre.

He said: 'I live just two streets from the epicentre of the quake and I slept
right through it.'

The Birmingham Post website can be seen on www.icbirmingham.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                         September 25, 2002, Wednesday

GUNMEN DIE AS SIEGE ENDS;
 ARMY STORMS TEMPLE AFTER MASSACRE SIEGE: Indian forces surround the Hindu
temple after the terrorist attack in western Gujarat yesterday afternoon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 299 words


INDIAN commandos stormed a Hindu temple today, ending a siege and killing two
attackers who had gunned down worshippers. More than 30 people died in the raid,
which raised fears of fresh riots between Hindus and Muslims.

The gunmen eluded government troops for almost 14 hours, returning fire and
throwing grenades into the sprawling complex, said KN Nityanand, top security
official for western Gujarat state.

'The two attackers were killed shortly after daybreak,' said Brigadier Raj
Sitapathy, who led the commando raid. There was no immediate claim of
responsibility for the attack, but India's deputy prime minister blamed it on
Pakistan and linked it to the ongoing legislative elections in disputed
Jammu-Kashmir state.

There was no immediate reaction from Pakistan to his allegations. Islamabad had
earlier condemned the attack. The attack on the Swaminarayan temple in
Gandhinagar, capital of western Gujarat, killed 32, including one government
commando and the two attackers. Seventy-four people were injured, including at
least 23 police officers, officials said. Gujarat saw vicious religious rioting
earlier this year after a Muslim mob set fire to a train carrying Hindu
activists in February.

A wave of reprisals saw 1,000 people, mainly Muslims, killed in three months. In
the latest attack, the gunmen struck as worshippers prayed yesterday evening.
Witnesses said they leapt from a car and jumped a fence, then sprayed gunfire.
Many pilgrims hid within the complex throughout the ordeal.

SIX Pakistanis were shot dead after gunmen opened fire at the office of a
Christian charity in Karachi, police said. The shooting occurred at the offices
of the Institute for Peace and Justice.

Among the dead were three Pakistani Christians and three Muslims.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 26, 2002

My night of terror, by rape victim;
 ATTACK : 'I'm a different person'

BYLINE: Kylie Pentelow

SECTION: News :999 :Sex crime, Pg.1

LENGTH: 467 words


A 22-year-old woman from Chippenham has spoken of her terror after being raped
in a churchyard.

As she warned other women to be on their guard against the attacker, she said
the horrifying incident had changed her outlook on life.

After the vicious attack in the grounds of the town's St Andrew's Church, the
woman now fears large groups and avoids leaving her home.

Before the rape, she said she had been an outgoing person who enjoyed the
company of friends.

She spoke publicly for the first time yesterday after the attack on Friday,
September 13, which came as she had been walking to get a taxi home after a
night out in the town.

She left the Rose and Crown pub in Market Place at about midnight. As she walked
through the churchyard she was pounced on by the sex fiend.

"I don't even know where he came from, " she said.

Police investigating the case say the man subjected her to a serious and vicious
sexual attack.

"After being attacked I rang my ex-boyfriend and he came and found me. I knew he
was in town and he was the last person I was talking to in the Rose.

"I just wanted someone close to me to come."

The police were called and the woman had to be taken to hospital for emergency
treatment to internal injuries.

"I went home that night but I am still receiving treatment, " she said. "I have
been putting on a brave face."

The woman has recently been away with her boyfriend to a seaside resort to try
to help the recovery process. But being in a busy environment brought back the
horrific memories.

"I went away with my boyfriend to get out of Chippenham, " she said.

"We went out to arcades and to the shops - I got in a right state.

"I don't like being near too many people.

"Before, I was always out - now I am just staying at home.

"I used to feel comfortable walking alone - I wouldn't do it again."

And to other women in Chippenham walking alone she said: "Don't even think about
it - stay in a big group."

She has not returned to her job in care work since the incident.

An e-fit of the attacker has been issued.

Dc Jo Spencer of Chippenham CID said: "There has been quite a lot of interest
from the photofit but we still need the support of the public."

She said that anyone who was in the Rose and Crown on that night or who may have
seen something should come forward.

Dc Spencer added: "She was a real party girl who enjoyed going out and seeing
her friends. This has destroyed that part of her life at the moment."

The attacker is described as white, aged 20-25, over 6ft tall, of muscular
build, with dark, shaved hair and a longer fringe brushed forward.

Anyone with information about the incident should contact Dc Spencer or Ds Pete
Chamberlain at Chippenham CID on 01249 654455.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               September 27, 2002

Dad jailed for terror attacks

SECTION: News; Courts; CrownCourt; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 336 words


Gary Freeman hit the man with an iron bar, leaving him with a 2in gash, in
March.  Only eight days earlier he had held the man in a headlock and stolen
cash.

Both attacks were close to each other, in Sneinton Road, Sneinton, and in an
alleyway nearby.

Freeman, 29, of no fixed address, was jailed for three years and nine months.

The recovering heroin addict pleaded guilty to robbery on the day he was due to
stand trial at Nottingham Crown Court.

Judge Simon Hammond warned Freeman he would have been facing five years in jail
if he had been convicted after a trial.

He told him: "Hitting people over the head with an iron bar can cause very
serious or fatal injury.

"Because of your plea of guilty, by the skin of your teeth you have saved
yourself from being a long-term prisoner." Freeman, a father of one, has
previously been before the courts for robbery and offences of dishonesty.

On March 18 this year he grabbed his 27-year-old victim in Sneinton Road and
stole GBP 10.

Then on March 25 the same man was walking down an alleyway when the defendant
jumped off a wall brandishing an iron bar.

He ran from the scene but was arrested in April and charged.

Ian Way, defending, told the judge the victim was a drug user who moved in the
same circles as Freeman. "Thankfully the injuries the victim sustained were not
serious," he said.

He explained that Freeman had been free of heroin since his remand in custody
five months ago.

He said his client's hope was to restart his life again in the future with his
nine-year-old daughter and without the bane of heroin.

Investigating officer PC Simon Carter said he was delighted with the result of
the case.

Detective Inspector Mick Brookes, head of Notts Robbery Reduction Initiative,
said "This was repeat victimisation of the same man.

"People should expect to receive a heavy sentence for this type of crime and it
is sending the right message out to anyone considering committing a robbery."
Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Nottingham Evening Post

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               September 27, 2002

Terror attack on home by gang

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 229 words


A FAMILY of six, including a four-week-old baby, and an in innocent bystander
were subjected to a terrifying raid by four armed men yesterday.

A member of the family who was visiting the house, in Ovenden Avenue, Ovenden,
Halifax, was threatened with a knife after the men entered through an insecure
door at 10.14pm on Wednesday.

Property was taken from him and he was forced upstairs. A 43-year-old
grandfather and his 39-year-old wife were then sprayed in the face with a
noxious substance by the masked men, who were looking for cash and jewellery.

On the way out they spotted a 35-year-old man talking on a mobile phone and
mistakenly assumed he was phoning police. A gun was held to his head, and when
he still refused to hand over the phone he was hit on the head with a knife.

He was taken to Calderdale Royal Hospital where he was detained overnight after
needing 15 stitches in his wound.

The raiders fled in a white Volvo and black VW Golf.

Det Insp Jon Hoyle of Calderdale CID said: Fortunately younger members of the
family were in bed at the time, and the violence was directed towards adult
members of the family.

We do not know why these men have targeted the address, and obviously the family
is trying to come to terms with what has happened.

We are appealing for anyone who has any information to contact West Yorkshire
Police.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 29, 2002, Sunday

DON'T BLAME U S.;
 IRISH FILM DIRECTOR JIM SHERIDAN HITS OUT AT CLAIM THAT AMERICANS BROUGHT 9/11
TERROR ATTACKS UPON THEMSELVES

BYLINE: John Kelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 629 words

HIGHLIGHT: ANGERED: Jim Sheridan; UNREPENTANT: Ken Loach; DENIAL: Danis; Tanovic


IRISH director Jim Sheridan has hit out at a controversial new movie which
suggests America may have brought the September 11 attacks on itself.

Sheridan insisted the notion - put forward in a collection of short films by 11
directors from around the world - was hopelessly misguided.

He said that more than 20 years of living and working in the US had made him
realise America was not the international bad guy that some people believed.

Dublin-born Sheridan's latest movie - titled In America - stars Samantha Morton
and Paddy Considine as a pair of Irish immigrants struggling to make their mark
in New York.

The film, which is due out in November, is said to show the US as a land of
opportunity for generations of newcomers.

Sheridan said: 'When I was a kid, I was a socialist like everybody else.

"When I came to New York, it knocked the spots off me, and I got to a more real
place.

"I had a hard time but a good, hard time. The fact is the good in the US so
outweighs the bad."

His comments follow the north American premiere of the movie 11'09"01, which
comprises 11 short films, each lasting 11 minutes, nine seconds and one film
frame.

The French production includes sharp criticism of US foreign policy and drew
both hisses and cheers when screened at last week's Toronto Film Festival.

One of the segments from Egyptian director Youssef Chahine accuses the US of
training terror chief Osama bin Laden and includes condemnation of US policies
in an imagined interview with the ghost of a Palestinian suicide bomber.

Another from British maverick Ken Loach shows a Chilean as he writes to some
American friends to remind them that September 11 is also the infamous date in
Chilean history when the socialist President Salvador Allende was overthrown
with support from the US.

Loach's film goes on to describes the resulting reign of terror by the Chilean
army, including the imprisonment, torture and murder of political opponents.

Leading US film magazine Premier said the film was a thinly-veiled attempt to
blame the attacks on New York and Washington on US foreign policy.

Editor Anne Thomson said: "It was an outrage. I was completely offended, and so
were a lot of others."

Sheridan, whose own films include My Left Foot, In the Name of the Father and
The Boxer, said many of the anti-American sentiments in 11'09"01 could not be
justified.

He said: "The problem with some of these folks is they haven't noticed the white
snows of socialism have melted.

"There's been no reappraisal since the fall of the Berlin Wall."

But Loach, well known for his support of left wing causes, shrugged off the
criticism, saying film makers had a duty to look beneath the surface of
important events.

He said: "The events of September 11 are in danger of being interpreted in only
one way.

"Everyone knows how it happened, but no one seems to be asking why.

"This film, 11'09"01, has important things to say about that."

Loach, director of such critically acclaimed movies as My Name Is Joe, and Bread
and Roses, claimed the US had a lot to answer for in its dealings with other
countries.

He said: "Looking back over the last half-century, from Vietnam and Cambodia,
through Chile, Nicaragua, El Salvador to the Middle East, we are bound to ask,
who are the real terrorists?"

Bosnian director Danis Tanovic, whose film depicts the mourners of the massacre
at Srebrenica marching in solidarity with the United States, said criticism of
US policy was not the same as being anti-America.

"I don't think any of us, I hope at least, started to make this movie from any
anti-American feeling," he said.

"God knows I'm Bosnian and we can thank the United States for their action in
Bosnia."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                               September 30, 2002

City Ambulance Team Gets Terror Attack Kit

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 274 words


Aberdeen ambulance station has a new state-of-the-art kit capable of dealing
with casualties from terrorist attacks.  Aberdeen is one of three places in
Scotland to get the new chemical, biological, radioactive and nuclear (CBRN)
kit.

It has created 20 new jobs for a team which will be on call 24 hours a day.

The team will perform other duties.

Ambulance bosses said in the unlikely event of an attack in the North-east, they
will be able to decontaminate a large number of casualties.

It will also be sent to incidents where people could have been contaminated such
as chemical spills and air alerts at Aberdeen Airport.

Up to now the only facility for cleaning harmful chemicals from casualties has
been cold water from fire hoses.

The new kit includes inflatable decontamination units, which can be put up in
minutes, and suits to protect the CBRN team from harmful substances.

The units will cater for casualties on stretchers and use warmed water.

Alfie McIntosh, acting decontamination manager, said: "It will save some lives
as well as starting people's treatment much earlier." He added: "It's got to be
there but nobody really wants to use it." Arthur Taylor, assistant divisional
manager, said the kit wasn't solely as a result of September 11 - but that had
hastened its arrival.

He said it was something good which had come out of such a terrible tragedy.

The other two places to get a CBRN kit are Edinburgh and Paisley.

The Scottish Executive gave the Scottish Ambulance Service GBP 451,000 for
protective suits for the national initiative and GBP 80,000 for the
decontamination units.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                October 1, 2002

Mercy Crews Get New Kits To Cope With Terrorist Attack

BYLINE: David McKay

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 375 words


Ambulance crews in Grampian have been provided with the latest decontamination
equipment that will enable them to cope in the event of a terrorist attack.
Aberdeen is one of only three places in Scotland that has access to the
chemical, biological, radioactive and nuclear (CBRN) apparatus.

Scottish Ambulance Service bosses said yesterday that the kit could be used in
incidents such as chemical spills, air alerts at Aberdeen Airport and workplace
emergencies.

Previously, ambulance crews had to rely on the fire brigade to wash down any
casualties that may have been contaminated.

However, victims can now be treated on scene by trained staff using the mobile
unit, which can be set up in a matter of minutes.

Assistant divisional manager Arthur Taylor said yesterday that 20 new jobs had
been created in the North-east as a result of the investment in the
decontamination equipment.

He said that the project was financed by the Scottish Executive following the
September 11 terrorist attacks on New York.

He said: "The public expect that we will look after them if a tragedy occurs.
Hopefully we will never have cause to use this, but we need to be prepared.

"We have waited for years to have this kind of kit. We have had to rely on the
fire service during incidents where casualties had become contaminated." Acting
decontamination manager Alfie McIntosh said that a recent incident at
Aberdeenshire Council's headquarters, Woodhill House, was a prime example of a
situation where the CBRN kit would be used.

A total of 18 council workers ended up in hospital after dangerous fumes were
created when a spilled disinfectant reacted with another substance in a drain.

Mr McIntosh said that the crew could have the kit set up on scene within eight
minutes.

He said: "It will save some people's lives as well as starting treatment much
earlier." Lord Provost Margaret Smith visited the Scottish Ambulance local
headquarters yesterday, and said that she was pleased to see the new equipment
had arrived.

She said: "It is reassuring for the public to know that the emergency services
have this kind of kit." The Executive has also invested in the CBRN equipment
for ambulance crews in Paisley and Edinburgh.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 1, 2002, Tuesday

COUPLE IN SPRAY ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Alison Dayani ATTACKED: Martin

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 170 words


A TERRIFIED couple forced off the road, blinded with ammonia spray and beaten
with a baseball bat in a vicious robbery today spoke of their ordeal.

The couple, named only as Martyn and Sue, were driving home from their jewellery
shop in Walsall when attackers armed with a handgun and baseball bat struck near
their home in Great Barr.

Three men in a black saloon swerved in front of the couple's BMW, forcing it off
the road in Wilderness Lane before smashing the windows with a baseball bat.

The couple were then dragged from the car and had ammonia sprayed in their eyes
by the thugs, who fled with cash and thousands of pounds worth of jewellery.

Martyn, aged 57, said: 'I thought it was a road rage attack but Sue realised it
was a robbery.

'I had a quarter of my life savings in the back of the car. One of them shouted
'Let him have it' and I assumed the gun was loaded.

'They hit me three or four times with the baseball bat. It was the most
frightening experience I'd ever had.'

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 2, 2002, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACKS FUEL SMITH EXPANSION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 413 words


Smiths Group yesterday expanded its security division with the pounds 235
million acquisition of German X-ray detection firm Heimman Systems.

The German firm, which has a sales office in London, supplies security systems
to airports around the world including sites in the UK. Its equipment is used to
detect explosive or hazardous substances in luggage and cargo.

The business has benefited from the increased demand for tighter security in the
wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US.

Sales at Heimann jumped more than 50 per cent in 2001 against the previous year.

Smiths, which has also seen demand for its detection products soar, plans to
combine the business with its existing division which includes Watford-based
Graseby.

The Graseby operation supplies the defence market with equipment to detect
warfare agents such as anthrax. Smiths also has two other detection businesses,
based in the US and Canada.

Smiths' chief executive, Keith Butler-Wheelhouse, said: 'Heimann, our fourth
detection acquisition, makes Smiths a world leader in integrated security
systems and will substantially increase the size of our addressable markets in
homeland defence and security, by broadening our customer, product and
geographic base.'

Smiths is buying the business, which was founded in 1946, from German
engineering and defence group Rheinmetall.

Rheinmetall owned the firm for nine years, after buying the business from German
engineering firm Siemens in 1993.

Meanwhile, Mr Butler-Wheelhouse declined to reveal which of the aerospace-to
-medical devices firm's businesses may be put up for sale as part of its
disposal programme.

Smiths Group is said to be considering the sale of up to pounds 1 billion of its
assets.

'When we make the decision to sell we'll announce that and get on with it - but
we won't do it ahead of time,' he stressed.

He said although the company is planning to invest in its medical, aerospace and
detection systems businesses, the disposal plan will not necessarily target
assets outside those divisions. The decision to retain or sell off any of its
300 or so companies, he said, will be based on the growth potential of each
business.

'If we feel that they are not good growth businesses, then what we will try to
do is to move out the lower growth businesses, and replace them with higher
growth businesses. But we are not doing that in any specific area at the present
time,' he added.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 2, 2002, Wednesday

LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE: BLAIR: DO NOT FORGET ISRAELI VICTIMS OF TERROR ATTACKS;

 MIDDLE EAST

BYLINE: Marie Woolf Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 306 words


TONY BLAIR made a heartfelt call for an end to Palestinian terrorist attacks on
Israel last night and said the IRA bombings of the 1970s were "a mere fraction
of what Israel has suffered".

The Prime Minister, addressing a meeting of Labour Friends of Israel in
Blackpool, urged the British public not to forget the suicide attacks Israel has
been subjected to when criticising Israeli aggression towards the Palestinians.

"When we are worrying about the actions that Israel is taking I think sometimes
we in Britain should think back to the 1970s when we were subject to what for us
was an extraordinary terrorist campaign by the IRA at that time. And yet
actually if we proportion it up in terms of our population, it was a mere
fraction of what Israelis have suffered."

His remarks delighted his pro-Israeli audience but are likely to dismay some
British Muslims. Mr Blair, who was accompanied by his wife Cherie, condemned
Palestinian terrorist attacks and said that their "sheer arbitrary nature" was
despicable. "I only wish we could get to a situation where people could see that
terrorism is the obstacle to a proper solution," he said.

Mr Blair said the solution to the Middle East conflict was a "secure Israel" and
a "viable Palestinian state". He added that it was only by Israelis and
Palestinians working together that they could create a peace of "lasting value".

Mr Blair also praised the contribution of Britain's Jewish community. He said he
shared their "principles of solidarity and justice for all" and payed tribute to
their work in the charitable sector.

Earlier yesterday Charles Clarke, the party chairman, spoke at the inaugural
meeting of Muslims for Labour and said that he would work to ensure that the
Muslim community's views were more fully represented in the Labour Party.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 3, 2002, Thursday

WORLD STILL UNREADY FOR ATTACKS BY BIO-TERRORISTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 318 words


The world has rushed to defend itself against bio-terrorist attack since
September 11, 2001, but is still woefully ill-prepared, experts said yesterday.

National agencies remain within their own special fields - chemical, biological
and nuclear - and there is even less cooperation internationally, they told the
fifth International Conference on Chemical Incidents.

'There is no single country in Europe with the appropriate coordination system,'
World Health Organisation (WHO) expert Dinko Kello told the conference in
Cardiff.

'There are also inappropriate command and control mechanisms to respond to
terrorist attacks,' he added.

Kello said that although there had been no known intentional use of chemical or
biological agents apart from the anthrax letters in the United States after the
kamikaze attacks on New York and Washington, there was no time for complacency.

'Transatlantic collaboration among the relevant public health services...is
still more sporadic than planned,' he said.

Gary Coleman, head of the British chemical accident agency The National Focus
for Chemical Incidents, said co-ordination had improved nationally and to an
extent internationally since September 11, 2001 but much was still required.

'We have always been prepared for the release of toxic chemicals. The difference
since September 11 has been the scale,' he said.

'Since then, the major change is that we are now working much more closely with
our colleagues working on communicable diseases.

'Our mind-set has changed. We have to prepare and plan for deliberate releases,'
he said.

Iraq is known to have used chemical weapons in the past and is suspected still
to possess them.

Security experts believe that a possible response to any military attack on Iraq
to oust President Saddam Hussein would be chemical or biological retaliation in
Europe or the United States.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 3, 2002, Thursday

TATCHELL 'GAY' ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 83 words


GAY rights campaigner Peter Tatchell was punched, kicked and abused by a large
gang of teenage music fans for complaining about 'queer-bashing' lyrics.

Tatchell was outside the London Mobo awards ceremony protesting against various
singers who urge fans to 'kill gays'.

A screaming mob then attacked Tatchell threatening to kill him and members of
his group Outrage! forcing him to abandon the protest at the London Arena.

He said later: "The homophobic hysteria was terrifying."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 3, 2002, Thursday

EURO TERROR ATTACK FEAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 87 words


EUROPEAN governments are not properly prepared to deal with a terrorist chemical
attack, it was claimed yesterday.

Experts in chemical incidents insist public health staff levels and resources
are insufficient to handle a major incident.

Dr Dinko Kello, chemical safety adviser for the World Health Organisation, said
nations must work together to minimise the impact of a terror attack.

He told a Cardiff conference: "There isn't a fool-proof safety system. So there
must be a response plan in place."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 04, 2002, Friday

Priest attacks 'bullets and iron-bar terrorists'

BYLINE: By Sandra Laville in Belfast

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 455 words

A LEADING Roman Catholic priest has spoken out against terrorists who persecute
ordinary people in Northern Ireland with "bullets and iron bars" and the
politicians who fail to challenge them.

Mgr Denis Faul, parish priest of Carrickmore, Co Tyrone, has been criticised by
the IRA and Government ministers for his forthright views on the Troubles and
those he held responsible for prolonging them.

In a letter to The Daily Telegraph today, he praises Danny McBrearty, the bus
driver injured in a suspected IRA punishment attack and his family's defiance of
death threats to protest about the forced exile of Mr McBrearty's nephew, Joseph
McCloskey.

Martin McGuinness, the education minister and Sinn Fein MP, has broke his
silence over the attack on Mr McBrearty, 54, who was shot in front of a group of
pensioners in Londonderry. Mr McGuinness, who has been challenged by Mr
McBrearty's family to put an end to an IRA campaign against them, condemned the
shooting.

It is the first time he has spoken about the IRA intimidation of Mr McBrearty
and his family, despite a public protest outside his office.

"I am deeply concerned about the attack in Derry which left Danny McBrearty
badly injured and about the trauma caused to passengers travelling on the bus
which Mr McBrearty was driving.

"I want to make my position on this attack absolutely clear. It was wrong and
should not have happened," he said.

Mr McGuinness spoke after the police confirmed that initial investigations
indicated it was the Provisional IRA who had attacked Mr McBrearty. His
statement did not deal with that allegation.

Mgr Faul has a long record of denouncing the gunmen of both sides. He has been
labelled "Thatcher's priest" by the Provisional IRA, while Tory ministers
criticised him for holding Mass for Maze prisoners. He said yesterday he had
been consistent in his condemnation of the terror and intimidation of the gunmen
in Northern Ireland for 30 years.

The priest, who has been working to secure Mr McCloskey's return to the province
for 18 months, said the way the republican terrorists were behaving was akin to
fascism.

"It's all about control and fear. These things are done to terrify the
community. What these men say when they do these attacks is; 'Don't tell the
police or the press'. Politicians and churchmen should be condemning these
things by name. These terrorists are behaving like the mafia."

Of the attack on Mr McBrearty, he writes: "Hardly anybody in Northern Ireland
has the courage to speak out against the republican bullets and iron bars which
control Catholic districts in continuous violation of the Mitchell principles.
The loyalists do the same for their unfortunate people."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            October 6, 2002, Sunday

WHYON EARTH WAS HE ALLOWED BACK?;
 FANANTIC WHO CALLED FOR TERROR ATTACKS ON BRITAIN RETURNS TO UK

BYLINE: Amardeep Bassey Investigations Editor BACK IN BRITAIN ... student Hassan
Butt who was exposed by the; Mercury after recruiting British Muslims to fight
for the Taliban. Also due to speak today is claw-handed cleric Sheikh Abu Hamza
and al-Muhajiroun leader Sheikh Omar Bakri

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 456 words


A FORMER Midland student who urged British Muslims to launch terror attacks in
the UK has returned from Pakistan to address a 'holy war' rally today.

Hassan Butt, a worker for the al-Muhajiroun militant group, was exposed by the
Sunday Mercury after boasting how he had recruited hundreds of young men to
fight alongside the Taliban in Afghanistan.

The former University of Wolverhampton drop-out later encouraged British Muslims
to hit targets in the UK.

His comments, made while in Pakistan, provoked outrage and led to calls for his
arrest for incitement and promoting terrorism if he ever returned to these
shores.

But today the 23 year-old is set to address more than 300 supporters when he
speaks at a Manchester conference provocatively titled 'Jihad (Holy War) in the
UK.'

Other speakers advertised include al-Muhajiroun leader Sheikh Omar Bakri, who
two years ago told the Sunday Mercury he believed Tony Blair was a 'legitimate
target for assassination.'

The notorious claw-handed cleric Sheikh Abu Hamza is also due to address the
conference about the 'War on Islam.'

His son is currently being detained in Yemen after being convicted of terrorist
offences. Several Birmingham men were arrested in Yemen with him but were
eventually released. The Sunday Mercury was the first British newspaper to
interview Luton-born Butt at his secret hideout in Pakistan last November.

The self-styled mujhadeen leader told how he wished to become martyred like
other British Muslims who had lost their lives fighting against the Americans.

In a later interview, Butt claimed he was instrumental in directing three Tipton
men to Afghanistan after they visited him in Pakistan, hoping to join the
Taliban.

The three were later captured by Afghan Northern Alliance forces and are
currently being held by the Americans at the Guantanamo Bay base.

Butt said he had discouraged them from fighting and instead advised them to help
provide aid for the hundreds of Afghan refugees in the Pakistan/Afghan border
areas.

At today's meeting Butt, who now heads a new Islamic militant offshoot of al
-Muhajiroun called Harkatul Khilafah, is expected to re-issue his rallying call
to young British Muslims to launch a terrorist offensive on British shores.

And he will cite the British government's compliance with a planned American
attack of Iraq as an attack on Islam.

Calls for his arrest for treason have largely fallen on deaf ears because of the
difficulty in producing concrete evidence to support the charge.

Last year Butt tried to sell his story to a national newspaper - and boasted how
easy it was for him to sneak in and out of the UK despite his repeated diatribes
against the West.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            October 7, 2002, Monday

OIL TANKER ATTACKED BY TERRORISTS;
 BOSSES SAY IT WAS AL-QAEDA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 324 words


A FRENCH oil tanker ablaze off Yemen is feared to have been a terrorist target.

French security sources said the 158,000-ton Limburg could have been rammed by a
small boat loaded with explosives.

The drama came as a tape of Osama bin Laden warning of new terror attacks was
released.

Supertanker owners Euronav said last night: "The crew saw a high-speed vessel
approaching on the starboard side. An explosion followed."

But Yemeni authorities claimed that the blast in the Gulf of Aden port of Mina -
al-Dabah was sparked by a leak of oil.

Transport Minister Saeed Yafai insisted: "The fire was caused by explosions in
one of its tanks."

Eleven of the 25 crew were rescued after jumping into the water, while others
stayed aboard to battle the blaze.

Bin Laden's message was relayed in a tape broadcast by al-Jazeera yesterday.

The Qatar-based satellite station has become known for its broadcast of audio
and videotapes of al- Qaeda leaders.

The al-Qaeda chief said the "youths of God" would plan more strikes against the
United States until Washington stopped its aggression against Moslems.

The tape said: "The youths of God are preparing for you things that would fill
your hearts with terror and target your economic lifeline until you stop your
oppression and aggression."

It wasn't immediately clear when the short message - broadcast with a picture of
bin Laden in the background - was made.

Referring to the September 11 atrocities a year ago, bin Laden said his warning
was addressed to the American people.

He urged them to "understand the message of the New York and Washington attacks
which came in response to some of your previous crimes".

He added: "But those who follow the activities of the criminals in the White
House, the Jewish agents, who are preparing for an attack on the Moslem world,
feel that you have not understood anything from the message of the attacks."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                October 7, 2002

Tanker Terror Attack?

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 40 words


But Yemeni officials described yesterday's blaze as an accident caused by an oil
leak, while French officials said it was still too early to rule out terrorism.
The first concrete results from police research are awaited.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 The Gloucester Citizen

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 7, 2002

TANKER BLAST 'TERROR ATTACK'

LENGTH: 77 words


    AN explosion which set an oil tanker ablaze yesterday may have been a bomb
attack.

    An official source in Paris said there was "solid information" that the
blast on the 157,000-tonne French supertanker off Yemen was caused by
terrorists.

    But the Yemeni government said the explosion, which ripped a hole in the
side of the ship, followed a fire in one of its tanks.

    Last month the US warned of possible attacks on oil tankers in the Gulf.


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 7, 2002, Monday

Terrorist alert after oil tanker 'attack'

BYLINE: Roland Watson in Washington

SECTION: Overseas news; 16

LENGTH: 614 words


THE spectre of al-Qaeda was raised yesterday after an explosion ripped through
the hull of a French oil tanker moments after the crew spotted a small boat
speeding towards its side.

The owners of the Limburg, which had nearly 400,000 barrels of crude on board
and last night was sending a huge column of thick black smoke into the sky off
the coast of Yemen, said that they had no doubts about the cause.

"This was a terrorist attack. It was not an accident," Jacques Moizan, director
of Euronav SA, said. "The crew saw a high-speed vessel approaching on the
starboard side."

Captain Peter Raes, the managing director of the management companies for
Compagnie Maritime Belge, which owns Euronav SA, said that terrorism was the
only credible explanation. He said he doubted whether the explosion had ocurred
inside the ship. "There were no sources of ignition. It was brand new," he said.

Al-Jazeera, the Arabic-language satellite station, last night broadcast
audiotape of a male voice attributed to Osama bin Laden which warned the US to
be braced for further attacks. "By God, the youths of God are preparing for you
things that would fill our hearts with terror and target your economic lifeline
until you stop your oppression and aggression" against Muslims, it said, but
made no link with the Limburg.

The attack came two years to the month after al-Qaeda suicide bombers drove a
high-speed boat into the hull of the USS Cole in the Yemeni port of Aden,
killing 17 US servicemen. Those accused of plotting the attack are due to go on
trial in the coming weeks.

The authorities of Yemen, which have since tried to throw off the image that
their country is a breeding ground for radical Islamic terrorists, played down
the claims of the owners.

Officials said there was no indication of an attack, and that the fire was
caused by an oil leak about three miles off the port of Mina al-Dabah, 350 miles
east of Aden.

Yemen, which is the bin Laden ancestral home, and home to suspected al-Qaeda
cells, has been quick to emphasise its commitment to President Bush's war on
terrorism after September 11.

French officials initially supported the idea of terrorism being behind the
latest attack, but then backed off. An official at the Fremch Embassy in Sanaa,
the Yemeni capital, at first compared the holing of the Limburg with the attack
on the USS Cole. However, the Foreign Ministry in Paris issued a more cautious
statement later, saying that it was too early to draw conclusions.

The 300,000-tonne, double-hulled Limburg, which was completed in 2000, had 25
members of crew on board: eight French and 17 Bulgarians. A Bulgarian fitter
remained unaccounted for last night.

President Chirac of France spoke with the Yemeni President, Ali Abdallah Saleh,
by telephone last night. Yemen has formed a committee to investigate the
incident, and French investigators are expected at the scene in the coming days.

In Washington, the episode was being watched "with interest" by White House
officials, although the Bush Administration refrained from reacting until it had
more details.

Analysts questioned the theory of a blaze started after an oil leak, in part
because the type of heavy crude the Limburg was carrying is not especially
flammable. The blast also appeared to have penetrated up to eight metres (26ft)
into the hold, suggesting considerable force.

Last month, the US Navy gave warning of possible attacks by al-Qaeda on oil
tankers in the Gulf. Earlier this year, after the arrest of a suspected al Qaeda
cell in Morocco, intelligence officials gave warning explicitly of possible
attacks on international shipping.


LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 9, 2002, Wednesday

SMALLPOX VIRUS TEAMS VACCINATED;
 FEAR OVER UK TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Paula Murray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 429 words


FRONTLINE medical workers are to be injected against smallpox amid fears of a
bio terror attack.

And a mass immunisation programme could follow.

The Government is planning to stockpile enough vaccine to cover the whole nation
in case of a terrorist attack using the virus, which kills more than 30 per cent
of those infected.

But Government chief medical officer Sir Liam Donaldson said vaccinating the
whole nation would be a last resort.

Frontline medical staff will be the first to get the jabs, which were abandoned
in the 1980s after the disease was judged to have been eliminated worldwide.

There are also plans in place for a limited vaccination programme around the
source of any outbreak.

Only if a number of outbreaks occurred simultaneously would the whole nation be
offered the vaccine.

Sir Liam said: "We should have in place enough supplies to vaccinate on a mass
population basis if necessary."

Previous plans have involved a limited vaccine programme to isolate new
outbreaks but the UK government have now decided to follow the US example to be
ready for the worst.

Sir Liam said: "It's when rather than whether and it is who should be vaccinated
because a proper counter plan to a smallpox attack would involve having a group
of essential workers who were immune to the disease through vaccination."

A Department of Health spokeswoman confirmed the Government plans but stressed
there had been no intelligence of a planned attack.

She said: "The primary strategy is to ring-vaccinate as a first line of defence.
That means if there is an incident, we would vaccinate in that particular area.

"But we're planning for every eventuality, so the CMO would consider mass
vaccination if necessary.

"There is no increased risk of attack, we are just making sure we are prepared
if there is one."

She revealed the department had been talking about the vaccinations since
September 11.

And she added several countries had also been prompted by the atrocities to step
up their measures to prepare for a bio-terrorist attack.

It is feared Saddam has supplies of the disease.

No details of vaccine supply or when the first phase of the plan will be carried
out have been released because of the fear that terrorists could use the
information in planning an attack.

Smallpox is highly transmittable through breathing in virus droplets or contact
with infected body fluids or contaminated bedding.

If the infected person is vaccinated within four days of the exposure, it is
effective against the virus.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 9, 2002

Mass vaccination plan to counter terror attack

BYLINE: Ed Harris

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 441 words


THE GOVERNMENT is planning mass smallpox vaccinations if Britain comes under a
bio-terrorist attack, the Chief Medical Officer has announced.

Sir Liam Donaldson said the Government had carried out "intensive planning for
possible bio-terrorist attack". Plans to contain a limited outbreak were being
examined, as was vaccination "on a mass population basis", he said.

Key health workers are to be vaccinated soon as a precaution, to enable them to
continue to work should there be an outbreak.

If an attack did occur, the people in the immediate area would be offered
vaccination.

Only if there were numerous outbreaks would a mass vaccinationprogramme be
considered-Sir Liam said.

His announcement confirms a report in the Evening Standard last month that the
Government was about to embark on the scheme. Up to now it has talked only about
plans for a limited vaccine programme to isolate any new outbreak.

But last night Sir Liam admitted: "It's when rather than whether and it is who
should be vaccinated, because a proper counter plan to a smallpox attack would
involve having a group of essential workers who were immune to the disease
through vaccination."

A Department of Health spokeswoman confirmed that the Government would
consider-vaccinating the entire population, but stressed that there was no
increased risk of attack.

"The primary strategy is to ring-vaccinate as a first line of defence. That
means if there is an incident we would vaccinate in that particular area," the
spokeswoman said. "But obviously we're planning for every eventuality."

The spokeswoman refused to discuss supplies of vaccine, but it was revealed in
August that the Government had already ordered 20 million doses.

The contract was awarded to Powderject Pharmaceuticals, a decision widely
criticised after it emerged that the company's chief executive Paul Drayson had
donated £50,000 to the Labour Party just weeks before.

There were also concerns that the Government had opted for the wrong type of
vaccine, but Health Secretary Alan Milburn said at the time: "The best advice
that we've got is that the smallpox vaccine that we've bought protects against
all known forms of the disease."

News of the government plans comes amid fears that Iraq or another country might
have stocks of smallpox which could be used as a terror weapon. The plans are
similar to those put forward by doctors in the US this week.

They supported the " ringvaccination" approach rather than universal
inoculation, in part because of the vaccine's potential danger - it could kill
40 out of every million people vaccinated.


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 9, 2002

US marine dies after terrorist attack in Kuwait;Relatives of Cuban prisoners
shoot at troops on exercise

BYLINE: Vicky Collins

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 470 words


A US marine was killed and another injured in a terrorist attack yesterday after
two men opened fire on troops on a military exercise in Kuwait.

Fellow marines shot dead the assailants. The marine died during surgery after
being shot in the chin and stomach. The second soldier was said to be stable
after surgery.

Kuwait's interior ministry named the attackers as Kuwaitis Anas Ahmad Ibrahim
al-Kandari, 21, and Jassem Mubarak al-Hajri, 26. "This is a terrorist incident,"
the ministry said. The incident occurred in the morning while marines were
training on Failaka island, off the coast of the capital, Kuwait City.

Majid al-Ali, a journalist with al-Rai al-Aam newspaper, said the attackers were
cousins who had three relatives held by the US military at a prison camp at
Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.

The interior ministry did not say if the attackers were Islamic militants, but
security sources said they were probably linked to anti-American Islamic groups.

Kuwait opposes any unilateral action against Iraq and fears retaliation with
non-conventional weapons if the United States attacks Baghdad.

Muslim fundamentalists are politically strong in Kuwait. They want Saddam
removed from power, but many of them believe George W Bush's real motives for
waging war would be to revive the foundering US economy and weaken Arabs in
support of Israel.

The terrorist incident came as Jack Straw, the foreign secretary, was rebuffed
by Egypt yesterday in his efforts to secure Middle East backing for a new United
Nations resolution on Iraq.

Egyptian insistence that there was "no necessity" for a new resolution came
despite a statement from the US president that a war against Iraq was not
inevitable, which was widely welcomed by international leaders.

After talks in Cairo, Ahmed Maher, the Egyptian foreign minister, accused Mr
Bush of trying to "rewrite the rules in the middle of the game" and said nothing
should be allowed to get in the way of the return of UN weapons inspectors to
Iraq.

Mr Straw, on the first stop of his four-day diplomatic mission to the Middle
East, played down his comments and insisted the meetings with Hosni Mubarak, the
Egyptian president, and his ministers confirmed that they shared Britain's goal
"if at all possible, to have this resolved by peaceful means".

Mr Maher made clear Egypt's opposition to the UK-American resolution, which
would set out requirements for Saddam to give up any chemical, biological, or
nuclear

arsenals and authorise military action if he failed to comply.

He suggested it was better to operate under existing resolutions, dating back to
the end of the Gulf war in 1991.

Hans Blix, the chief weapons inspector, has said his team will not return to
Baghdad until the wrangling in the UN has been settled.

LOAD-DATE: October 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 9, 2002

US marine dies after terrorist attack on troops in Kuwait

BYLINE: John Mceachran

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 165 words


A US marine was killed and another injured in a terrorist attack yesterday after
two men opened fire on troops on a military exercise in Kuwait.

Fellow marines shot dead the assailants. The marine died during surgery after
being shot in the chin and stomach. The second soldier was said to be stable
after surgery.

Kuwait's interior ministry named the attackers as Kuwaitis Anas Ahmad Ibrahim
al-Kandari, 21, and Jassem Mubarak al-Hajri, 26. "This is a terrorist incident,"
the ministry said.

Majid al-Ali, a journalist with al-Rai al-Aam newspaper, said the attackers were
cousins who had three relatives held by the US military at a prison camp at
Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.

The interior ministry did not say if the attackers were Islamic militants, but
security sources said they were probably linked to anti-American Islamic groups.

The incident took place in the morning while marines were training on Failaka
island off the coast of the capital, Kuwait City.

LOAD-DATE: October 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 9, 2002, Wednesday

AMERICAN MARINE ON MANOEUVRES IN KUWAIT IS KILLED BY TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe In Washington

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 339 words


GUNMEN KILLED an American marine and wounded a second in a terrorist attack on a
military exercise in Kuwait yesterday.

The attackers, two Kuwaitis in civilian clothes, were shot dead by US forces.
The gunmen, driving a pick-up truck, approached a group of US soldiers and
opened fire with automatic weapons.

US forces killed the attackers as they drove off, apparently to attack a second
group of marines. The attack was premeditated, diplomatic sources said.

The two men were identified last night as Kuwaitis: Anas al-Kandari, born in
1981, and Jassem al-Hajiri, born in 1976. According to one unconfirmed report,
they were cousins who had three relatives held by the US military at Guantanamo
Bay in Cuba. A statement issued by the Kuwaiti Interior Ministry said: "The
ministry announces that this is a terrorist act. It will not allow anyone to
undermine the country's security." Washington will be concerned at the
vulnerability of Western targets in the Middle East. On Sunday, a French oil
tanker was holed by an explosion off the coast of Yemen in what increasingly
appears to be a terrorist attack.

The soldiers attacked yesterday were part of a force of about 1,000 from the 11
Marine Expeditionary Unit, taking part in Exercise Eager Mace, an annual
operation with Kuwaiti forces. The two victims were flown to the Camp Doha Armed
Forces Hospital, where one of them died. The second marine is understood to have
been shot in the arm.

The attack took place on Faylaka Island, about 10 miles off the coast of Kuwait
City. Although the exercise was part of joint United States- Kuwait training,
the gunmen struck while the marines were taking part in urban assault training
that involved only US forces, the spokesman said.

The marines were evacuated from the island yesterday as a precaution and
officials said they did not know whether the four-week exercise would resume.
Kuwait is believed to be home to many al-Qa'ida members. Muslim fundamentalists
are politically strong in the country.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 11, 2002, Friday

TEENAGE GIRL IN ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 122 words


A TEENAGE girl was left terrified last night after a man grabbed hold of her in
a Coventry street.

The 13-year-old girl was walking along Cartmel Close, off Nod Rise in Mount Nod,
between 5pm and 5.30pm when she noticed she was being followed by a man.

He suddenly put both of his arms around her waist, but ran off when the
frightened youngster screamed and struggled.

Police said she then ran to her nearby home to raise the alarm.

The man is described as white, 5ft 11in and aged in his late 20s to early 30s.
He was clean-shaven with a chubby face, with thick dark hair and wearing a blue
long-sleeved jacket

Police are appealing to anyone who saw a man hanging around to ring them on 024
7653 9010.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 11, 2002

Threat of war: Debris points to terrorist attack on tanker

BYLINE: Jon Henley in Paris and Andrew Clark

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 717 words


Initial results of the investigation into the blast on the French supertanker
Limburg off the coast of Yemen suggest that it may have been caused by a
deliberate attack, the French foreign ministry said yesterday.

The statement was made after the French accident inspector reported that
fibreglass debris from a boat "which obviously does not belong to the tanker"
had been found in the Limburg.

Jean-Francois Perrouty of the accident investigation bureau added that the
fibreglass fragments might resemble the debris found on the American destroyer
Cole, which was attacked in Yemeni waters two years ago with a boat packed with
explosives.

"The initial results of the inquiry suggest the explosion was due to an attack,"
the foreign ministry statement said.

It said the ministry had asked its embassies and consulates to reinforce
security and measures to protect French citizens in areas potentially in danger
of terror attacks. Shipowners and the French navy were studying how to better
protect boats in danger zones, it added.

Earlier yesterday Yemeni officials, making a radical u-turn, said the blast
could have been a terrorist attack.

"It might have been an arranged and deliberate act, and a meticulously planned
one, for that matter," a senior official said. "There are contradicting and
misleading statements, and we're trying to clear everything up."

But the Yemeni chief investigator, the minister of sea transport Saeed Yafaei,
said last night that the parts of a boat found on the tanker "might belong to
the tanker's rescue boat which was destroyed as a result of the incident".

He said a joint Yemeni-French investigating teamwould examine the parts. "It is
important that we must not jump to conclusions before carrying out necessary
tests and investigation," he added.

But he said that the police had arrested a number of people as a "pre-emptive
measure". He did not elaborate, but security sources said that up to 20 were
detained.

Investigators from France, Yemen and the US have been trying to discover what
caused Sunday's fire on the Limburg, which killed one crew member and sent
90,000 barrels of oil pouring into the Gulf of Aden.

The pan-Arab newspaper Asharq al-Awsat said it had received a statement from a
Yemeni fundamentalist group, the Aden-Abyan Islamic Army, claiming that it had
attacked the ship in revenge for the execution of one of its leaders.

Zein al-Abidine al-Mihdar was executed for his role in kidnapping 16 western
tourists in 1998.

The Aden-Abyan Islamic Army has no formal links to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida,
but was set up by Yemeni and other Arab militants who, like Bin Laden, helped
Afghan fighters push back Soviet forces in 1989.

Many Yemenis who fought in Afghanistan are believed to have been recruited by
Bin Laden, whose father was born in the Yemen province of Hadramout.

The Limburg was off the coast of Hadramout, a stronghold of the Aden-Abyan
Islamic Army, when the explosion occurred, and the provincial governor, Abdul
Kader Hilal, said one member was among those detained.

The Limburg, which was waiting off Mina al-Dabah, was hit by one or more heavy
explosions early on Sunday - the eve of the first anniversary of the US military
campaign in Afghanistan against al-Qaida and the Taliban.

The tanker's captain, Hubert Ardillon, says that a crewman spotted a small
fishing boat approaching the ship at speed just before the explosion.

Experts say that photographs of the tanker contain clues suggesting that the
explosion was deliberate. It has an eight-metre hole in its hull, exactly at
water level, with jagged steel edges buckling in.

David Osler of the shipping newspaper Lloyd's List said: "All the evidence tends
to point to a terrorist incident. Insurance for ship-owners has skyrocketed this
week - it just underlines what sitting ducks ships of this size are."

The incident has prompted suggestions that oil tankers should carry armed
guards.

Brian Parkinson, a security expert at the International Chamber of Shipping,
said: "About 60% of the world's oil comes from the Gulf. If there are threats to
ships there, it's very worrying. Up to now, the industry's been against arming
seafarers."

Special report on Yemen at guardian.co.uk/yemen


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                October 11, 2002

Terror Attack Suits For Staff

SECTION: News; Health; NHS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 275 words


Front-line Swansea hospital staff are being equipped with special safety suits
in case of a bio terrorism attack.  The Assembly today confirmed that city
health workers will be among the first in Wales to be vaccinated against
smallpox in the event of such an incident.

The news comes as the Government takes special measures to counter the threat of
potential biological attacks on Wales and England.

The planning for a possible smallpox attack began after September 11 last year
when terrorists attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Swansea NHS
Trust confirmed today that 25 special suits were on their way to the city.

The suits will protect front-line staff in the event of a smallpox outbreak or
other biological or chemical attack.

Singleton Hospital operations manager and trust lead in emergency planning Paul
Baker said: ''We are preparing for the possibility of a smallpox outbreak as
part of our all-hazards approach to emergency planning.'' An Assembly
spokeswoman said: ''Wales is involved in all-UK discussions on emergency
planning for terrorist attacks.

''New protective suits are being issued to improve resilience and protection for
front-line staff.'' The smallpox virus claimed the lives of 300million people in
the 20th Century before a vaccine finally put an end to outbreaks. It was
declared wiped out worldwide in 1980.

The last major outbreak in Wales took place in 1962 when an infected traveller
from Pakistan visited the Rhondda. A subsequent outbreak infected 25 people and
six people died.

As a precaution around 900,000 people across South Wales were vaccinated.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 South Wales Evening Post

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                October 14, 2002

Woman Badly Shaken In City Terror Attack

SECTION: News; 999; People; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 132 words


A young woman was subjected to a terrifying late-night attack on an Aberdeen
street.  The 22-year-old was walking her dog on Anderson Road, Woodside, at
11.20pm yesterday when a man grabbed her.

Her assailant was disturbed by the noise of a gate opening nearby and fled
towards Clifton Road.

The woman was badly shaken, but was not injured.

Grampian Police said it was not known whether there was a sexual motive behind
the attack.

The woman had taken her dog out for a walk and was not carrying a handbag.

A police spokeswoman said there was nothing at this stage to link the incident
to other recent attacks in the city.

The attacker is aged between 22 and 28, about 5ft 10in, slim and was wearing a
yellow hat, light-coloured jacket, jeans and trainers.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 14, 2002, Monday

BALI BOMB ATTACK: ANTI-TERROR HUNT AS BALI BOMBS KILL 187

BYLINE: Tim Ross

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 511 words


AN INTERNATIONAL antiterrorist investigation was under way yesterday after two
bomb blasts ripped through a crowded tourist resort in Bali, leaving at least
two Britons among the 187 people dead.

At least 300 were wounded in the attacks, on a busy street of nightclubs and
bars in Kuta, which some believe to be the latest anti-western outrage by
terrorists linked to Osama bin Laden.

Richard Gozney, the British Ambassador to Jakarta, told Channnel 4 news: "On the
British side, there is still one or two absolutely confirmed dead but I'm afraid
there are about five or six ... we are pretty sure there are five or six people.

"Much more more worrying that that still there are still about 25 people not
accounted for, some of whom who were seen in the bars and area nearby shortly
beforehand.

"We are afraid that that figure of five or six is going to rise quite
considerably still."

In London, the Foreign Office confirmed a 30-year-old man from Cornwall died in
the carnage.

British and Indonesian officials identified 40 UK nationals amongst those
injured when the Sari Club, packed with holidaymakers, was destroyed by the
blasts.

The popular venue was reduced to a pile of smouldering ruins, with blood,
severed limbs and body parts strewn across the blackened pavement outside, while
other nearby buildings were severely damaged.

Last night, a total of 26 Britons had been treated and discharged from hospitals
in the area but 14 were still receiving treatment, a Foreign Office spokesman
said.

Including three Irish nationals, 25 people under British responsibility were
still unaccounted for.

Downing Street said Tony Blair had sent messages of condolence to the Indonesian
President Megawati Sukarnoputri and John Howard, Prime Minister of Australia,
from where many of the victims are thought to have come. A third bomb which
exploded almost simultaneously near the US consulate in Bali's capital Denpasar
did not injure anyone.

US Ambassador Ralph Boyce told CNN that the US is "very much considering this a
despicable act of terrorism".

Mr Boyce said that details that had emerged in the past few weeks "more or less
confirm" long-standing suspicions that al Qaida is active in Indonesia, the
world's most populous Muslim nation.

Author and terrorism expert Simon Reeve said the attacks were likely to be
linked to bin Laden's al Qaida network, adding that the terrorist leader
probably "inspired" the bombings, even if he did not order them.

An Australian Federal Police and secret service investigation team was on its
way to the resort island to help the Indonesian Police investigate the incident.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has also offered to send British forensic and
counter-terrorism specialists to Indonesia to help the investigation.

Mr Straw said the attack had been "committed by the most evil and most perverted
people".

Mr Straw told BBC Radio 4 News: "As far as al Qaida are concerned it's too early
to say whether they were the people behind this."

Opinion - Page 6

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STREET OF TERROR: The scene of devastation in Bali after bombs
destroyed a nightclub killing 187 people; Picture: JACK HAMILTON

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 14, 2002, Monday

BALI BLAST OUTRAGE: DREADFUL DAY WHEN TERROR BOMB ATTACK WARNED THE WORLD: THERE
IS NO HIDING PLACE FROM MEN OF EVIL;
 IN A FEW HIDEOUS MOMENTS, A CLUB FULL OF HAPPY YOUNGSTERS WITH THEIR WHOLE
LIVES AHEAD OF THEM WAS TURNED INTO A SCENE FROM HELL BY MURDEROUS FANATICS

BYLINE: Laura Davis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1004 words


THE paradise holiday island of Bali last night resembled a war zone as the world
reeled from the latest terrorist outrage.

Tourists and islanders still appeared stunned by two explosions which ripped
through a Kuta beach nightclub, killing almost 200 people and injuring hundreds
more.

Holidaymakers enjoying a Saturday night out on the resort's main street told of
nightmarish scenes.

Bloodied survivors fled the bar, some with limbs blown off. Cars and motorbikes
parked outside were burning, forming a wall of flames blocking people's escape.

Dozens of injured were evacuated by taxi drivers who normally ferry tourists
from one part of the resort to another.

It took several hours to extinguish the blaze which engulfed the remains of the
club.

Richard Hechnier, from Perth, Australia, said: "I saw people on fire. Many
people were carrying others.

"Most were bleeding. Everything was on fire. It was chaos," he said.

The 29-year-old said he later returned to the scene to see if he could help and
was horrified by what he saw.

"There were bodies all over the floor of the bar. So many bodies were just black
mounds, some were red."

French tourist Karim Ansel said: "I saw awful, awful things. One person was
absolutely covered with blood, another woman was running with her clothes burned
to her body."

Briton Matthew Noyce described the panic inside one of the bars: "There were
people diving for the door, trying to clamber over each other."

An American visitor, Amos Libby, 25, said he was walking past the bar when the
explosion happened.

"It lifted me off my feet. All the buildings in the vicinity just collapsed,
cars overturned and debris from the buildings fell on them,.

"People I met two to three days ago are never going to go home. I have never
seen anything so horrible."

A spokesman for the Foreign Office last night refused to confirm how many people
from Merseyside and Cheshire were caught up in the atrocity.

He said: "It is not Foreign Office policy to disclose where people are from at
this stage."

One thousand Britons were on the island at the time of the attacks. Keith
Betton, head of corporate affairs for the Association of British Travel Agents,
said it was impossible to say how many of these are from the North West.

As daylight broke on the normally tranquil holiday resort yesterday morning,
blood still splattered walls and the road.

Hundreds of police had cordoned off the area. Bomb squad officers were going
through the ruins.

Many of the bodies retrieved were burnt beyond recognition and this will make
identification extremely difficult.

The blackened remains of dozens of cars and motorbikes cluttered the town's main
road.

A few dazed-looking tourists stood by watching. Most sheltered in their hotels,
desperate to get the first plane out.

Throughout the island, normally renowned for its friendly and outgoing
population, there was a grim atmosphere.

The hospitals were last night full to overcrowding with victims suffering from
horrific burns and people trying to aid the wounded.

Worried holidaymakers were frantically searching for relatives.

One man was desperately trying to find his 15-year-old daughter, who had been
celebrating her birthday at the Sari Bar when the explosion occurred.

A total of 26 Britons had last night been treated and discharged from hospitals
in the area but 14 were still receiving treatment, a Foreign Office spokesman
said.

Including three Irish nationals, 25 people under British responsibility were
still unaccounted for.

The airports were flooded with people desperate to get home.

Downing Street said Tony Blair had sent messages of condolence to the Indonesian
President, Megawati Sukarnoputri, and John Howard, Prime Minister of Australia,
from where most of the victims are thought to have come.

Mr Blair also spoke by telephone with Mr Howard, offering him any necessary
assistance.

An Australian federal police and secret service investigation team was last
night on its way to the resort island to help the Indonesian Police investigate
the incident, which experts believe is linked to Osama bin Laden's terror
network al Qaida.

The team includes forensic and investigative officers who will work with
Indonesian police.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw has also offered to send British forensic and
counter-terrorism specialists to Indonesia to help the investigation. Mr Straw
said the attack had been "committed by the most evil and most perverted people
who think that some political aim of theirs can be achieved by attacking mainly
young people who are enjoying themselves and also in turn contributing a great
deal to the Indonesian economy."

Indonesia has been wracked by ethnic and religious violence since the overthrow
four years ago of former dictator Suharto.

But although Muslim radicals occasionally stage smallscale raids on nightspots
in other parts of the country, Bali has remained quiet.

There has been speculation that the attacks may have been intended for the large
numbers of Australian tourists in Bali due to the country's support for the US
Government's War Against Terrorism.

Staff at Liverpool's city centre Australian bar The Walkabout were shocked by
the atrocity.

Shane Calvert, 26, from Melbourne, said: "I saw it on the news and I was just
shocked. It makes me feel disgusted and uneasy about travelling.

"Everybody goes to Bali. It's a great place to hang out. It's really popular in
Australia.

"They're saying this is an attack against our country. I don't think it is.

"I don't know who's responsible but I will continue to support the Australian
government and George Bush's war on terrorism."

The British Embassy in Jakarta and the Foreign Office are advising people not to
travel to Bali.

The British Consulate in Bali has set up a 24-hour telephone number for people
anxious about relatives or friends in the tourist resort. It is 00 62 361 270
601.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALERT: Indonesian police stand guard near the club; THE GRIM TOLL:;
Lists of the known dead, missing or injured are pinned up at the hospital in
Bali; HORRIFIC: Police officers inspect the shattered ruins of the nightclub in
which nearly 200 young people died; VICTIM: Police cover the body of one of the
clubbers

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 14, 2002, Monday

Al-Qa'eda link to club bombing 'Six Britons' among 187 killed in terror attack
at Bali resort Hundreds of Australians caught in blast

BYLINE: By Alex Spillius in Bali and Barbie Dutter in Sydney

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 857 words

A CAR bomb attack on the Indonesian resort island of Bali killed almost 200
people, many of them young western backpackers and surfers, it was confirmed
last night.

The British ambassador to Jakarta, Richard Gozney, said that at least "five or
six" Britons were among the victims and the figure could "rise considerably".

Marc Gajardo, 30, from Truro, Cornwall, was confirmed dead by the Foreign
Office, which said that 25 other Britons were missing.

Thirteen Australians were confirmed killed and 220 were still unaccounted for in
the attack at the resort of Kuta on Saturday night, officials in Sydney said.

One person died on an Australian air force flight taking wounded to the northern
Australian city of Darwin.

More than 300 other people, including 120 Australians, were wounded, 80 of them
critically, in the worst terrorist attack since the September 11 suicide
hijackings.

Two smaller bombs went off near the American and Philippines consulates at two
other towns on the island, but no one was injured.

No group claimed responsibility. But the attacks heightened concerns that the
al-Qa'eda network had regrouped after the war in Afghanistan and was behind
them.

The killing of American troops in Kuwait and the Philippines this month and a
suicide attack against a French oil tanker have indicated that the network has
launched a global offensive against "crusader" targets, a code for those linked
to America and its allies.

Ahmed Suyudi, Indonesia's minister of health, said that 187 people were
confirmed dead. But rescue workers expected to find more bodies in the rubble of
two nightclubs that were flattened. Many of the victims were too disfigured to
be identified.

Other victims came from all over the world: Indonesia, Singapore, Ecuador,
Germany and the Netherlands.

The victims were caught in a fireball shortly after 11pm which swept from
building to building, perhaps fuelled by exploding gas cylinders.

Hundreds were trapped as the straw roof of the Sari Club, the most popular
nightclub in Kuta Beach, collapsed. Others were hit by debris or glass as the
blast caused damage in a 100-yard radius.

Martin Lyons, from Melbourne, said: "It's nothing quite like anything I've ever
seen - the blood, the smell of burnt skin and the pain that they were in. You
can't really put that into words."

Jared Kays, 23, from Stanmore, north-west London, said: "It was the sort of
thing you never ever want to see again. We are still in shock that we survived."

He and his girlfriend, Sonali Patel, escaped uninjured as the blast struck the
Padi bar opposite the Sari.

Like other witnesses, Mr Kays noticed a white car blocking the street shortly
before the blast.

Bodies and scorched human remains were placed on the pavement in white bags
outside the nightclubs. They were then moved to a makeshift open air mortuary,
where relatives and friends faced the grim task of identifying them, if they
could.

Tourists crowded around lists of the missing and injured, anxious for news.
Balinese and expatriates flocked to the local hospital to offer their services
as medical staff were overwhelmed. Nursing staff, medicines and other supplies
were quickly sent from other parts of the island and holidaymakers queued to
give blood.

The bombing has wrecked Bali's reputation as one of the world's most popular
tourist destinations. Its long beaches, dramatic rice terraces and tropical
climate attract everyone from jet-setters to student backpackers. It is to
Australians what the Costa del Sol or Ibiza is to young Britons. It is largely
Hindu, with rich and enduring cultural traditions and has escaped the political,
religious and separatist convulsions in Indonesia in recent years.

The country's president, Sukarnoputri Megawati, said: "The bombings should be a
warning for all of us that terrorism constitutes a real danger and potential
threat to the national security."

Downing Street said: "The Prime Minister is horrified by the explosions in Bali.
He utterly condemns this appalling terrorist act. His sympathies are with the
families of the dead and injured."

President George W Bush demanded that the world confront the terrorist menace.

"We must together challenge and defeat the idea that the wanton killing of
inno-cents advances any cause or supports any aspirations," he said. "And we
must call this despicable act by its rightful name: murder."

America has been demanding action from Indonesia against native Islamic
militants in recent months but has received little encouragement from Jakarta.

John Howard, the Australian prime minister, ordered an urgent review of national
security.

Describing the attack as "barbarous", he said that the war against terrorism
must proceed with "unrelenting vigour and an unconditional commitment".

The attack was clearly orchestrated and Australia must prepare for the worst.

"The indiscriminate, brutal and despicable way in which lives have been taken
away on this occasion by an act of barbarity will, I know, deeply shock all
Australians.

"We must prepare ourselves for a significant number of Australian deaths."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 14, 2002

33 Britons dead as blast toll hits 200;bali HORROR: Fears for Scot as survivors
fly home to reveal nightmare of terrorist attack

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 650 words


BRITONS returning from Bali today told of the horrific scenes after the double
bombing in a club that killed up to 200 people, including 33 Brits.

Another 15 people from the UK were missing and 40 people were injured.

A 36-year-old financial worker from Bridge of Weir, Renfrewshire, was feared to
be among the victims of the blast, which happened in the packed Sari Club on the
Indonesian island.

Stephen Speirs had been touring Bali with members of Hong Kong Rugby Club and
his childhood friend Kenny McKenzie said there had been no further news about Mr
Speirs.

Speaking from his home in Bishopton, Mr McKenzie said: "We are assuming the
worst. We know members of the rugby club were caught up in the blast and the
family are very, very upset."

Mr Speirs had been living and working in Hong Kong for the past eight years. A
spokesman for the rugby club said: "We have people out there looking around
hospitals in the hope he has been found.

"Some people have been airlifted to Australia and we are checking that
possibility too."

The Foreign Office was also checking reports that a Glasgow woman, a marketing
and accounts manager, was among the 40

people hurt in the

terrorist attack.

Some of the survivors arrived back in the UK today and told of the horrific
events.

Nikki Bloomfield, 27, said victims were left in the street with arms and legs
missing.

After arriving at Heathrow Airport, London, she said: "We saw this huge
explosion and a great big mushroom of flames go up.

"In the street outside people were lying with arms or legs missing.

"There were live power lines on the ground and people suddenly turned and said
'Run for your lives'."

Miss Bloomfield, from Berkshire, added: "There were people lying around with
bandages round their heads and their legs, covered in blood.

"On our flight out from Bali to Singapore a guy who was bandaged all over his
chest, head and legs had been put in business class."

The official death toll is 188, but that is certain to rise.

Richard Gozney, the British ambassador to Jakarta, said 15 Britons were still
unaccounted for.

The name of only one Briton killed has so far been released. He was Marc
Gajardo, 30, from Truro, Cornwall..

UK tour operator First Choice said all its 175 clients on the island, who had
travelled with three of the firm's subsidiaries, Sovereign, Hayes & Jarvis and
Eclipse, were safe.

Thomas Cook Holidays and British Airways Holidays said the two companies had a
total of 244 clients on Bali and "everyone was accounted for.

Thomson Holidays was arranging flights back for about 100 clients. The company's
hotels were well away from the blast area.

British long-haul specialist holiday company Kuoni said it had accounted for all
its 400 clients in Bali.

Experts believe the explosions were the latest anti-western outrage by
terrorists linked to Osama bin Laden, the man considered the mastermind behind
last year's plane terrorist attacks in America.

The Metropolitan Police said a team of officers from its anti-terrorist branch
was travelling to Singapore to help the investigation.

Indonesia's defence minister Matori Abdul Djalil blamed al Qaida and its
extremist allies for the attack.

However, a radical Indonesian Islamic cleric today denied being responsible for
the atrocity, which happened just before midnight on Saturday.

Abu Bakar Bashir, leader of Jemaah Islamiyah, which other governments insist is
linked to al Qaida, is said to be a key terror suspect.

He said: "The allegations against me are groundless. I challenge them to prove
anything.

"I suspect the bombing was engineered by the United States and its allies to
justify allegations that Indonesia is a base for terrorists."

Emergency contacts: Foreign Office:

0207 008 0000

British Consulate in Bali (24hr helpine):

0062 361 270 572

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATION: mangled buildings and wrecked cars mark the scene of the
bombing, which has so far claimed the lives of nearly 200 people;GLAD TO BE
HOME: Melanie Cohen, 30, from London, who suffered arm injuries, is met at
Gatwick;SURVIVOR: one of the hundreds of injured walks dazed around a hospital
in Bali

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 14, 2002

Office Hours: Wise before the event: Even the smallest office could benefit from
a risk manager. It is not all about preparing for a terrorist attack. It could
be as simple as coping when staff are off sick

BYLINE: John Kercher

SECTION: Guardian Office Hours Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1437 words


There is an increasing belief among the business community that if companies
would only anticipate and prepare for crises as diverse as economic recession or
the September 11 attacks, then they could ride through them largely unharmed.
And it's not just the large, global events that could threaten a company's
economy, survival and future that should be guarded against. The small glitches
that are allowed to snowball out of control need to be averted, too.

Risk management (RM) companies and consultants sprang into being some years ago
to help companies assess future problems and learn how to avoid them, or at
least limit the damage. There are numerous approaches, all with their own snappy
titles, including crises management, quantified risk assessment and
probabilistic risk assessment. Many are directed towards health and safety in
the industrial sector, and the possible environmental and public safety knock-on
effects of disasters or accidents. But in the office sector, and particularly in
small to medium companies, it's often the minor events that trigger
disproportionate economic crises, and RM specialists are now focusing on this.

Rod Fountain, chief executive of Survive, which launched in 1989 to provide a
forum for "expertise and information exchange among business continuity
management practitioners and professionals", says: "With reference to incidents
such as September 11, it is not a question of protecting your business against
terrorist attack. That is virtually irrelevant. It is a question of ensuring you
can continue to operate your business successfully 365 days a year, regardless
of anything that might disrupt it. This could be something global, or just a
rogue employee. That makes it a strategic issue for the board. It's not
something for the head of security to deal with.

"Business continuity management is not about making excuses," adds Fountain.
"It's about being wise before the event. It is a state of mind which understands
that great organisations never moan that they didn't do well because of the
state of the economy, a fire at the warehouse, an internal fraud, or a strike by
a group of key workers, or whatever. Great organisations do well anyway."

John Way, internal auditor for the ICI Group, which employs 38,000 worldwide and
in 2001 had sales totalling pounds 6.4bn, echoes Fountain's sentiments: "RM
should be embraced as an essential element in any progressive organisation:
strategic planning for improved business performance and profitable growth.
Those enterprises or companies which view RM as a compliant requirement will
fail to realise the benefit and will assume that little value is added by
adopting this approach."

The proposition that large-scale companies can just roll on through whatever
crises they face is challenged to some degree by Dr Edward Borodzicz, programme
director for the MSc in corporate risk and security management at the University
of Southampton. "Large companies do suffer damage," he says, "but because of
their size, they can absorb it."

He refers, as others in the field do, to the case of the Perrier bottled water
company which, in 1990, recalled tens of millions of bottles across the world
when benzene was discovered in some of the bottles as a result of an error at
the company's plant in France. At the time it seemed the company had suffered
greatly, but the recall was a good public safety exercise which helped the
company's image. However, whether the company fully recovered its share of the
market is still in question. Another example was Barings Bank. A single
individual working as a rogue trader, the now infamous Nick Leeson, was
single-handedly responsible for bringing down about a huge and historic
financial institution.

"In reality," says Borodzicz, "RM is an abstract concept because the
probabilities aren't measurable, as the social and technical factors are
interacting against each other. An example of this is 'counterfeiting' and its
effect on critical systems. It's a disturbing fact, for instance, that 30% of
brake pads are fake. But humans bought them and humans fitted them. So the
people factor is critical. You can apply this type of situation to any office or
organisation."

However, Borodzicz does agree that RM awareness is increasing. He says that many
small to medium-size companies - those with up to 250 employees - are already
involved in some form of crisis management every day.

But companies still have a lot to learn, according to Fountain. "A recession has
a potential impact on businesses similar to that of a terrorist strike, only the
impact is felt more slowly," he says. "Most businesses won't have learned many
lessons from the last recession, because it was too long ago, and companies are
generally not very good at addressing contingency issues when times are good. A
pounds 1m new business contract is considered much more desirable than saving
pounds 100,000, despite the fact that the latter has the same impact on the
bottom line."

It is not always possible for a company to stow away a sum like that, though,
counters Borodzicz. But both he and Fountain agree that every single member of
staff within a company should "understand that it is their responsibility to
protect the business: the data, the relationships, the interdependencies, the
finances and the future".

"The key is having the foresight and then planning to avoid future problems,"
says Michael Frohlic, managing director of Shine Communications, a public
relations firm with 29 staff. "We look at risk for our clients and for
ourselves. Our four directors make the decision and make contingency plans to
control a scenario. We look at the marketplace and aim not to be greedy."

"Before the dot.com bubble burst," he adds, "it would have been easy to have
made mistakes without looking at risk assessment. Lots of companies in the IT
sector grew disproportionately, and we were approached by quite a few, but
decided that we should mostly stick with our present clients who had solid
brands behind them. We decided that we didn't need to exploit the boom.

"We believe in encouraging our staff to learn everything that is going on within
the company, right down to the financials, and to look at how to encourage the
growth of our clients' businesses. It's an ongoing thing."

A parliamentary paper outlining how to manage risk in government departments has
some useful pointers for the office sector: if departments have sound systems of
control, they are more likely to have the confidence to innovate, because they
will be better able to cope with adverse circumstances; in developing action
plans to implement their risk frameworks, departments should ensure that all
staff receive appropriate training.

It also states that improvement in RM will lead to higher levels of performance
and reduce major failures, and that there should be greater awareness and
acceptance by staff in departments that RM is the responsibility of those
involved in the delivery of services and management and not just finance and
internal audit staff.

Colette Dark, a risk control manager at RM consultants Gallagher and Bassett,
says: "You also have to avoid extremes. Being over-obsessed with risks can be as
detrimental as being unaware of them because it can stifle innovation, which you
need to enhance progress. Small companies need to identify risks that are a
threat to the key resources needed to meet your business plans. For instance,
the threat posed to employees by sickness, loss of key personnel through injury,
for example, or from headhunting. Investing in a private health plan for those
key individuals might get them back on their feet quicker, or good
rehabilitation for injured staff." She adds: "RM means different things to
different people, from 'people risks' to financial ones to premises and assets."

Borodzicz concludes that a risk manager would be a valuable asset to any
company, no matter how small. "He isn't responsible for the risk; the risks are
taken by the people who run the company. But he can identify the risks. A risk
manager could also be a consultant, which is often more beneficial, since he
brings a different view as an outsider, from an internal appointee who might not
wish to challenge a management or directorial decision. But any risk manager
must be brave and give an ethical view and not pamper the client."

For more information on the University of Southampton's full- and part-time MSc
courses in corporate risk and security management, call 023 8059 5000, or visit
www.soton.ac.uk.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 14, 2002

Bali bombing: Al-Qaida allies spread global terror: Post-Sept 11 Attacks have
continued on western targets

BYLINE: Giles Tremlett

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 648 words


In the 13 months since the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon,
al-Qaida has seen its power base in Afghanistan disappear. But it has survived,
thanks to new alliances with radical Islamist groups around the globe. From
Tunisia to Indonesia, passing through London, al-Qaida and this broader alliance
of militant Islamists have extended the reach of their anti-western violence
further than ever.

Yemen

The attack on the Limburg supertanker as it lay off Yemen eight days ago appears
to have been a copy of the one that killed 17 US sailors aboard the USS Cole two
years ago.

Then, a speedboat full of explosives driven by a suicide bomber ploughed into
the warship's hull. In the Limburg incident, the ship's captain has said a
fishing boat appeared to have steamed into the vessel.

Abu Hamza al-Masria, a London radical cleric wanted in Yemen, said the attack
bore the hallmarks of al-Qaida and the so-called Islamic Army of Aden-Abyan,
which kidnapped western tourists in 1998. "Based on my information, Islamic
groups in Yemen are uniting. The Aden-Abyan army is back. They and other
militant groups are supporting al-Qaida," he said.

Pakistan

With at least eight attacks on western and Christian interests since last
October, Pakistan is the hottest spot for Islamist violence. Sixteen people from
western countries have been killed. Local police report that senior al-Qaida
operatives who escaped Afghanistan have linked up with the Sunni extremist
organisation Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, which has been persuaded to redirect its
violence against western targets. In May a suicide bomber from the group killed
11 French submarine engineers at the Sheraton hotel in Karachi.

Kuwait

The killing of a US soldier and the wounding of another on the island of Failaka
last week was carried out by al-Qaida veterans from Afghanistan armed with AK-47
rifles. The two attackers, killed by US troops taking part in a training
exercise, were named as Anas al-Kandari, 21, and Jassem al-Hajiri, 28.

Kuwait's interior minister, Sheik Mohammed Khaled Al Sabah, said yesterday that
15 other Kuwaitis, who had jointly planned five more attacks on US and foreign
targets, had admitted helping the two men. Al-Kandari and the unnamed leader of
the group had pledged loyalty to Osama bin Laden, though there was no evidence
that the attack had been ordered from outside Yemen.

Tunisia

A Tunisian, Nizar Nawar, 24, believed to have been a veteran from Afghanistan,
carried out what investigators say was the first post-September 11 al-Qaida
attack outside Asia when he blew up a homemade gas truck at a synagogue on the
island of Djerba. He killed 21 people, mostly German tourists, visiting the
oldest synagogue in Africa. Tunisian authorities, keen to protect tourism, claim
the attack was an isolated incident and that Nawar only received help from his
uncle. Western diplomats disagree and believe he must have had wider logistical
support.

Morocco

Three Saudi Arabian men arrested at Casablanca airport in May were allegedly
planning to attack British and US navy vessels in the Strait of Gibraltar.

The three, who had all escaped from Afghanistan, had been shopping for
speedboats. Investigators say they received instructions from an al-Qaida
leader, Ahmed Billal, who is also linked to the attacks in Tunisia and Yemen.

Britain and Europe

Richard Reid, the Brixton shoe bomber, recently admitted to a US court that
"basically I got on the plane with a bomb. Basically I tried to ignite it".

His attempt to kill the 197 passengers and crew on an American Airlines flight
from Paris to Miami last Christmas showed that al-Qaida units were still active
in Europe after September 11. Dozens of arrests of al-Qaida suspects across
Europe appear to have foiled planned attacks in France, Belgium, Italy and,
possibly, Germany.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       October 14, 2002, Monday Edition 1

Island identified as possible target for attack by terrorists

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1075 words


   Indonesia has long struggled to stem the flow of political extremist groups
which have left many of its once idyllic islands battle-scarred and hostile.

However, until Saturday's horrific bomb attack, Bali had always distanced itself
from the religious conflict that blighted many of its neighbours.

Yesterday, North-East- based expert in the development of South East Asian
countries, Dr Jonathan Rigg told how Indonesia had been identified by US
security chiefs as a potential terrorist hotspot following the September 11
attacks.

"The country was one of the places that the United States had concerns about,"
he said.

"There has been some evidence, too, that Indonesians have been trained by
al-Qaida because Indonesia has a long history of inter-communal conflict
stretching back way to the early 1990s."

Dr Rigg says that many of the country's islands have harboured extremist Moslem
and Christian groups which have attacked each other's places of worship and
settlements.

There is also ill-feeling between some Indonesian Moslems and wealthy Chinese
who have settled in the country since it gained independence from the Dutch in
1950.

With an economy based around the tourist industry, Bali became a haven for
holidaymakers, in particular from Australia and New Zealand. "I think this will
have an enormous impact on the Balinese tourist industry, whose first task is to
try and placate the Australians," said Dr Rigg.

"I think in the short term there will be a large drop off in the number of
people visiting Bali."

He said that although neighbouring islands such as Lombok, Maluku and Java have
all seen conflict between Moslem and Christian groups, Bali has remained
peaceful due to its mainly Hindu population.

Although Indonesia has the largest Moslem population in the world, it is not a
Moslem state.

Up until the 9th or 10th century, Indonesia was entirely Hindu, but over the
years Islam has filtered through and is now the main religion.

Condemning the bombing, governments around the world yesterday called for
stepping up the fight against terrorism.

The Saturday night attack was denounced as "vile" and the work of "evil and
perverted" people. No-one has claimed responsibility for the attack, which
killed nationals of at least eight countries.

"The world must confront this global menace of terrorism. We must together
challenge and defeat the idea that the wanton killing of innocents advances any
cause or supports any aspirations," US President George W Bush said in a
statement released by the White House.

Bush said Washington has offered assistance to Indonesia's government "to help
bring these murderers to justice."

Australia, Britain, France, and the European Union also offered to help track
down the perpetrators of the bombing.

The dead and injured included nationals of Australia, Germany, Canada, Britain,
Sweden, Switzerland and South Africa as well as Indonesia, officials said. Most
of the dead were badly burned and have not yet been identified.

Calling the bombing "barbaric," Australian Prime Minister John Howard said he
would launch an urgent review of national security.

At least seven Australians were confirmed dead, and the number was expected to
rise sharply.

Britons told to avoid Bali

Britons are being advised against all travel to Bali and Indonesia in the wake
of Saturday's bomb blasts on the holiday island.

The Foreign Office in London said: "In light of recent events, we advise against
all travel to Bali and against all holiday and other non-essential travel to
Indonesia at present."

The explosions, which Foreign Secretary Jack Straw condemned as being
perpetrated by "the most evil and perverted people", effectively closes the vast
Far Eastern country to British tourists.

Before the atrocity, the Foreign Office's Travel Advice Unit recommended that
Britons did not go to several other places in Indonesia including West Timor.

Other countries in the world where the British Government advises against all
travel are Burundi, Central African Republic, Iraq, Liberia and Somalia.

Rugby club shock

A shocked tourist told yesterday of how five members of an Australian rugby
league team died in the nightclub blast on Bali while others missed death by
seconds.

Australian Brett Patterson, who was travelling with the players from Sydney,
said 11 members of the amateur club, the Coogee Wombats, were on holiday in Kuta
beach when they decided to go to the Sari Club.

Seconds after some of the group had left the building, the two bombs exploded.

The five left inside the club have been identified among the dead, he said.

British holidaymakers were also reliving their ordeals and contacting relieved
friends and family.

Ahmad Zabadne, from north London, said he was "extremely lucky" to escape being
badly injured along with a group of British friends on holiday together on the
island.

The 24-year-old suffered a perforated eardrum in the blast which he fears may
leave him without hearing on his left side.

"We were in a bar when we heard a huge bang and people started running
everywhere...

"We were extremely lucky. If we had been further into the bar or further out, we
would have been caught in it."

Mr Zabadne, a sales rep for an IT company in London, was flying back to Britain
yesterday.

The group of friends are expected to be arriving back in Britain today. Some of
them, including Mr Zabadne, were graduates of Leeds University.

Another Briton, firefighter Jolyon Ditton, also narrowly escaped the devastating
blast.

The 31-year-old, from Westbrook, Kent, had arranged to meet some new Danish
friends at the nightspot but he arrived after the Danes to find a scene of
devastation.

Witness to a nightmare

Photographer Nick Burgoyne told of the horrific scenes following the bomb blasts
in Kuta.

Mr Burgoyne, 38, formerly of Yarm, Teesside, lives just two miles from the area.

He said: "I heard an explosion and thought at first it was a lightning strike.
Then I saw all the lights go out. After that, one of my friends rang up and told
me it was a bomb blast. When I got to the scene it was devastating. It was an
enormous explosion.

"There was very thick acrid smoke and you could smell charred flesh and burning
rubber. Thick clouds of smoke were billowing around, choking onlookers and gas
cylinders were exploding. Two hours after the first blast, the fire was still
raging and you could still see bodies."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            October 14, 2002, Monday

HERO OF TERROR ATTACK;
 LIVERPOOL WOMAN RESCUES PAL FROM RUINS OF BALI CLUB THE HERO OF BALI

BYLINE: Claire Stoker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 168 words


A LIVERPOOL woman was a hero of the Bali bomb terror which claimed 188 lives.

Despite leg injuries and a burned face, Mary King, 22, from Kirkdale, dragged
her unconscious friend from the wreckage of the bar on the Indonesian holiday
island.

Mary, who lost two friends in the bombing, is on crutches after the Saturday
outrage.

Her friend, Jamie Culshaw, also 22, from Anfield, was treated in hospital for
burns and concussion and releaseed.

Today former Liverpool passport office worker Mary was waiting for a flight to
Australia to continue her 14-month backpacking holiday.

Her sister Carla King told of the family relief and their pride in Mary's
bravery.

"We are so proud of her and glad she's alive.

"We would like to be able to see her and hug her."

Carla's family were horrifed when they first heard of the bombing and spent
several hours trying to get news from the Foreign Office.

It was 4am yesterday when they heard she was safe, and at 5.30am Mary rang them.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUTRAGE: The devastation at the Bali club

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                October 14, 2002

30 British tourists feared killed in terrorist attack

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 203 words


UP to 30 Britons were today feared to be among the 188 people killed by two bomb
blasts in a Bali tourist resort.


At least 11 Britons are so far thought to have been killed in attack but the
British ambassador to Jakarta, Richard Gozney, warned the number of could rise
much further as many were still unaccounted for.

The Foreign Office confirmed Marc Gajardo, aged 30, from Cornwall, was among the
188 dead. Some terrorism experts believe the explosions on a busy street of
nightclubs and bars in the Kuta Beach area was the latest anti-western outrage
by extremist groups linked to Osama bin Laden.

However, British officials insisted it was too early to tell who was
responsible.

Forty UK nationals have been found among the 300 injured, 26 have been treated
and discharged from hospitals but 14 were today receiving treatment.

Among the wounded was former Rotherham man Graham Perry, now a catering manager
for a Saudi airline. He he had just left an Irish bar when he felt the full
force of the explosion. He said: It was like a huge fireball coming up the road,
followed by a second explosion.

He was thrown to the ground, his clothes were shredded and his legs gashed by
the blast.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 15, 2002, Tuesday

WORLD WAITS FOR YET MORE HAVOC;
 BALI BOMB COULD SIGNAL NEW WAVE OF TERROR ATTACKS ACROSS THE GLOBE SAY EXPERTS

BYLINE: Ian Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 938 words


THE Bali bomb may herald a worldwide wave of major al-Qaeda attacks.

As Indonesia's government blamed al-Qaeda for the outrage, experts were studying
last week's "call to arms" by Osama bin Laden's deputy, Ayman Zawahiri.

US spies fear the video, shown on Arabic TV, contained coded orders to
terrorists to carry out strikes like the one on Bali.

And FBI agents said al-Qaeda prisoners at Camp X-ray in Cuba interpreted
Zawahiri's message as a sign that attacks were coming.

For a month, US intelligence has been warning that the terror threat is greater
now than at the time of September 11.

Experts are certain al-Qaeda bombed the Sari Club. They say bin Laden's
terrorists were taught at Afghan terror camps to carry out co-ordinated attacks
like the ones on Bali.

Indonesia's defence minister, Matori Abdul Djalil, said yesterday: "The Bali
bomb blast is linked to al-Qaeda, with the co-operation of local terrorists."

The "local terrorists" may have been al-Qaeda's main allies in Indonesia, the
fanatics of the Jemaah Islamiah movement.

JI's leader, Abu Bakar Bashir, wants to build a Taliban-style superstate in
south- east Asia. He hopes to unite believers in the Philippines, Malaysia,
Indonesia and other countries in a struggle against the West.

America believes Bashir "exchanged ideas" with Zawahiri two years ago.

Bashir denies all involvement in terrorism. He said yesterday: "I suspect the
bombing was engineered by the United States and its allies to justify
allegations that Indonesia is a base for terrorists."

But the 30 bombings in Indonesia in 2001 were mostly blamed on Islamic fanatics.

Anti-Christian groups linked to al-Qaeda, including JI, killed 18 people and
wounded 200 in attacks on churches in December 2000.

JI has been blamed for several small bomb attacks on "decadent" Western
nightclubs.

Author Rohan Gunaratna, an expert on al-Qaeda, said many of JI's 400 members had
trained at terror camps in Afghanistan, the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia.

He described JI as al-Qaeda's "south-east Asian network".

Worldwide pressure is growing on Indonesia to crack down on Bashir and JI.

The Indonesians have claimed they do not have evidence. But critics say Bashir
has protection from inside the government.

The country's vice-president is an admirer of Moslem extremists. Indonesia does
not even have an anti-terrorism law, and militant groups have found it easy to
thrive.

President Megawati Sukarnoputri relies on Islamic parties to prop up her
government, and fears religious riots if she takes on JI. Laskar Jihad, another
hardline group with ties to al-Qaeda, could also have been involved in the Bali
atrocity.

Terrorism expert Professor Paul Wilkinson, of St Andrews University, is sure al-
Qaeda were behind the bombing.

He said: "No one had any idea this was imminent. This is typical of al- Qaeda."

Some analysts believe the Bali bomb was targeted at Australian tourists because
their government supports war in Iraq.

But Professor Wilkinson said: "The bombers did not care who they killed as long
as they were Westerners."

Professor Charles Coppel, an expert on Indonesia from Melbourne University, said
the bomb could have been an attempt to spread chaos across south-east Asia.

He believes the collapse of tourism in Bali could help drive foreign companies
out of Indonesia, causing more poverty and sending people into the arms of
extremists.

Indonesia has the world's biggest Moslem population. Many of them hate America
and the West.

One defence analyst said: "Al-Qaeda cells are popping up like mushrooms.

Experts worldwide were heading for Bali to help hunt down the terrorists.

Among them were a team from Scotland Yard, world leaders in finding and
analysing bomb parts and other clues.

They will work alongside FBI specialists and local police.

British experts believe the Sari Club bomb was like the huge "fertiliser bombs"
used by the IRA. They suspect petrol cans were packed around the explosives to
cause a fireball. A senior Scotland Yard source said: "It created an effect like
a napalm bomb, instantly engulfing the whole area."

Western experts believe the bombing was organised by an al-Qaeda "lieutenant" -
a middle- ranking fanatic who trained local terrorists. The lieutenant may
already have fled Indonesia.

Chris Aaron, editor of Jane's Intelligence Review, said only old-fashioned
police work would root out the bombers.

He added: "You cannot send troops to uncover the sort of secret cells that are
likely to have been responsible.

"We need hard and sustained work by humans on the ground and traditional
thorough police work."

Politicians vowed that the war on terror would continue.

Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "We have, yet again, evidence of the appalling
depths to which these extremists will sink. They are not worried in the least
about the numbers they kill."

Blair said the world had to work more closely together to fight terrorism, and
the British people had to be vigilant in case of attacks here. He will make a
Commons statement today on the renewed threat.

Another message, said to be from bin Laden himself, was played yesterday on
Qatar's Al-Jazeera TV.

It celebrated last week's bomb attack on a French oil tanker off Yemen and the
fatal shooting of a US Marine in Kuwait.

The message praised the "heroic holy warriors" behind the attacks, and urged
Moslems to unite against the US and Jews.

Shots were fired yesterday at US troops training in Kuwait. No one was hurt and
the attackers escaped.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 15, 2002, Tuesday

'Bin Laden' gloats at terror attacks Al-Qa'eda

BYLINE: By Philip Smucker in Cairo

SECTION: Pg. 08

LENGTH: 586 words

A STATEMENT claiming to be from Osama bin Laden yesterday lavished praise on his
operatives in the field for their "courageous attacks" on American and other
western economic interests.

Bin Laden has not been heard from in person since November 2001. Although it
remains unclear whether the statement, faxed to the al-Jazeera television
station in Qatar, came directly from his pen or lips, the words strongly suggest
that his al-Qa'eda terrorist network is determined to exploit what western
counter-terrorism experts refer to as "soft targets".

The targets include economic interests such as tourism and the oil business.
French and Yemeni investigators have determined that an attack on an oil tanker
10 days ago, which was praised by bin Laden, was a terrorist attack - one that
is bound to add to fears of rising fuel prices.

Al-Qa'eda leaders targeted the symbols of US military might and its economic
power on September 11, 2001, with the attacks on the World Trade Centre in New
York and the Pentagon in Washington. Since then the US military has become
increasingly vigilant, something which may have discouraged direct attacks.

On the other hand, economic soft targets abound and counter-terrorism experts
have warned that they are far easier for dispersed operatives to strike at one
by one.

Senior Indonesian security officials said they were sure that al-Qa'eda was
behind the attack in Bali, which sent travel industry shares plunging yesterday
on several world markets.

Like a similar statement by al-Qa'eda's number two, Ayman al Zawahiri, last
week, the alleged bin Laden statement condemned America for planning to strike
at Iraq.

It also accused Washington of trying to rob Arab nations of their "riches",
particularly oil.

Yesterday's message appeared to gloat at what it called the failure of the US
military's campaign against al-Qa'eda, which began this month last year.

The statement said the US offensive against the Taliban and al-Qa'eda had failed
to injure or diminish the Islamic militant network.

It declared: "These attacks coincide with the anniversary of the crusade and are
a clear message that the mujahideen have not been weakened."

The statement said: "We congratulate the Muslim nation for the daring and heroic
jihad operations which our brave sons conducted in Yemen against the Christian
oil tanker and in Kuwait against the American occupation and aggression forces."
A US marine was killed in Kuwait last week and yesterday US forces engaged
attackers in a third shooting incident. The statement continued: "By striking
the oil tanker in Yemen with explosives, the attackers struck at the umbilical
cord of the Christians, reminding the enemy of the bloody price they have to pay
for continuing their aggression against our nation."

The text, which al-Jazeera said bore bin Laden's signature, did not mention the
Bali bombing. Counter-terror experts said that it would probably take a day or
two for al-Qa'eda's leaders to assess the success of that mission and include it
in any kind of a communique.

They said recent al-Qa'eda attacks clearly indicate that the network's
leadership is keen to make good its vows to strike at the "infidel" economy.

Al-Qa'eda leaders have demanded that Washington must end its support for Israel
and back away from plans to invade Iraq.

Indonesia is a pro-western Islamic state that relies heavily on tourism. But the
attack in Bali is likely to affect the tourism trade across the world, not only
in South-East Asia.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

Al Qaeda and the trail of power to Pakistan;
TERROR ATTACKS: Bombing suspects questioned by police in Bali

BYLINE: Robert Fox

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 633 words


THE questioning of a group of Pakistanis in connection with the Bali bombing
emphasises the powerful links between Pakistani terror groups and al Qaeda,
since many of Osama bin Laden's commanders were driven into Pakistan from
Afghanistan at the end of last year.

Al Qaeda has had some of its most powerful support in Pakistan since it was
founded by Bin Laden 12 years ago.

Moreover, Pakistan has been a key centre of operations and is the historic
recruiting ground for the Taliban in the madrassas - the religious schools in
the Afghan refugee communities there.

Al Qaeda trained Pakistani fighters for the campaign of subversion in Kashmir.

Two groups, the Lashkar-e-Taibar and Jaish- e-Mohammed, connected with Kashmir,
are known to have received training, recruits and funds from Bin Laden and his
lieutenants.

And according to international terrorist experts in the region there are at
least some 20 groups in Pakistan who are active in Kashmir and sympathetic to
the cause of al Qaeda and their principal allies such as the Taliban.

After the American air and special forces attacks on the Tora Bora stronghold of
al Qaeda in southern Afghanistan last December and January, there are signs that
the group split its centres of operation between the lawless North-West Frontier
province of Pakistan and safe houses in the teeming suburbs of Karachi, Lahore
and Faisalabad.

One of Bin Laden's key commanders, Abu Zubaida, was arrested in a joint FBI and
Pakistan security forces operation in Faisalabad last March.

A second al Qaeda operational commander, Ramzi Binalshibh, was arrested in a
shootout in Karachi this summer.

However, it is known that much of the operational command set up by Bin Laden in
Afghanistan since 1996 is still at large and operating across Pakistan and
Kashmir.

There are some signs that they may have helped set up new terrorist operations
in south-east Asia, in Singapore, the Philippines and Indonesia.

The CIA has long been warning about the suspected involvement of al Qaeda in
operations of shadowy Islamic groups in Indonesia, particularly those motivated
by the extreme Islamic line of the Jamaah Islamia (the Community of Islam).

Islamic extremists have been operating in and around Jakarta for some time and
have been blamed for several bombings.

One was outside a Christian church in which expatriates were worshipping and
near several businesses known to have American and European links.

The closest pointer that the Bali bombing has al Qaeda support came in a taped
message to the Al Jazeera news station from Bin Laden's number two Ayman
Zawahiri last Monday in which he threatened "attacks against America and her
allies".

Since then there have been a least five attacks, including ones in Yemen and
Kuwait.

The attack in Bali is by far the largest and seemed to be part of a new pattern
of operations of a more fragmented network of al Qaeda cells which are operating
from the Gulf to the Philippines.

There is small doubt, however, that the main centre for funding and recruiting
of the majority of these cells is now in Pakistan.

The problem of Pakistan for President Bush's fight against terror has been
highlighted by the result of the elections at the weekend in which an alliance
of Islamic parties had their best showing in any poll since independence in
1947.

Most of the Islamic coalition reject President Musharraf 's support for the war
against terrorism.

This means now that two of America's principal regional allies are also at the
heart of the problem of Islamic terrorism - the other ally being Saudi Arabia,
where Bin Laden is known to strong support, political sympathy and backing
generous funds.

More reports: Pages 4, 5 and 6. William Shawcross: Page 11

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

Bin Laden's attacks;
Terror Attacks

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 259 words


August 1998: Car bombs at US embassies kill nearly 200 in Kenya and 10 in
Tanzania.

12 October 2000: Explosives-laden dinghy rams USS Cole in Yemen. 17 sailors die.

23 December 2001: Briton Richard Reid arrested for attempted shoe-bomb attack on
American Airlines flight.

14 February, 2002: Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh admits killing journalist Daniel
Pearl in Pakistan.

15 February: Afghan minister for air transport, Abdul Raman, killed in Kabul.

20 February: Islamic militants held in Rome with cyanide and maps of water
pipelines.

17 March: Pakistan blames al Qaeda for killing five people at Islamabad church.

April: Al Qaeda-linked group accused over bomb on Indonesian island that kills
4.

11 April: 21, mainly German tourists, die when al Qaeda blows up fuel truck on
Djerba.

7 May: Osama Bin Laden blamed for attack that kills 12 aid workers in Pakistan.

10 June: US intelligence foils al Qaeda-linked radioactive "dirty bomb" plot in
US.

28 June: Al Qaeda rocket attack in Afghanistan kills 19.

6 July: Haji Abdul Qadir, Afghanistan's vice-president, is killed in Kabul.

30 August: Kerim Chatty charged with attempted hijack of flight from Stockholm
to Stansted.

11 September: British soldier hurt in blast in Kabul.

23 September: Grenade attack kills a man near US embassy in Jakarta.

3 October: US sergeant dies in Philippines nail bomb attack.

6 October: Crewman dies in Yemen attack on tanker.

8 October: US Marine dies when terrorists open fire during training in Kuwait.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

Survivors join prayer vigils on the beaches;
Terror Attacks: Rows of empty coffins wait to receive victims

BYLINE: Frank Thorne

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 168 words


AS dusk settled over the beaches of Bali today, mass prayers were dedicated to
the British and Australian victims of the bombing.

A handful of survivors who have not yet left the island joined those who have
flown in to search for their loved ones at a candlelit vigil.

Scores of unofficial services have been held on the beaches since the bombing.

One local official said: "Both the local people and our visitors have wanted to
gather together to share their grief. Now we are holding a proper service which
will help to say how sorry we are for the tragedy and its impact on families
around the world."

Many of the visitors to the island intend to leave after paying their last
respects.

Australian quarantine officer, Terry Smith, from Perth, explained why he was
making plans to leave.

"Bali is not safe. All my family have told me to get out of here before another
bomb goes off. We just want to say our final farewells to our mates and then we
will be off," he said.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: COFFINS ARE STACKED UP IN ROWS OUTSIDE THE MORGUE AT SANGLAH HOSPITAL
IN BALI. NEARLY 200 PEOPLE, MOST OF THEM YOUNG, DIED IN THE BOMB ATTACKS. THIRTY
-THREE OF THE VICTIMS ARE BELIEVED TO BE BRITISH; MOURNERS HOLD A SUNSET VIGIL
ON THE BEACH AT PETITENGET, THREE MILES FROM THE BLAST SITE; A CONDOLENCE BOOK
AT AUSTRALIA'S HIGH COMMISSION ON THE STRAND

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

Sportsmen, a hotelier and an academic among the British dead;
Terror Attacks

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 225 words


Stephen Spiers, 36

Regional director of an industrial auctioneering firm, he moved to Hong Kong
eight years ago from his home in Renfrewshire.

Schoolfriend Kenneth McKenzie said he was the life and soul of the party.

Chris Kays, 30

Quantity surveyor from Reading who worked in Singapore. Was in the nightclub bar
at time of attack. One of 17 friends in Bali from Singapore Cricket Club who had
entered a rugby tournament.

Ian Findley, 55

Killed as he stepped out of a taxi with his friend Ian Stafford, 42, who later
had to identify his body. He was from Craghead in County Durham. Mr Stafford
said: "He must have taken the full blast."

Paul Hussey, 46

Ran two hotels in Kuta. He had gone to Sari's nightclub for dinner.

Separated from his wife, Mr Hussey had dual British and Australian citizenship.
He previously managed the five-star Como Hotel in Melbourne.

Jon Ellwood, 39

Head of history at the International School in Ho Chi Minh City, he was in Bali
to attend a conference.

His mother Caroline, from Hertfordshire, said: "He was very committed to his
job. We are shocked."

Marc Gajardo, 30

The first British victim to be named, he was on holiday with his girlfriend
Hannabeth Luke, who survived the blast at the club. Originally from Cornwall,
the couple had emigrated to Australia.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

Poster appeal;
Terror Attacks

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 58 words


Friends of the missing have been putting up posters to appeal for news of their
loved ones.

Annika Linden and Dan Miller had been touring with the Hong Kong Football Club,
which lost several players.

Miller's wife Polly, 30, was being treated for burns at a hospital in Darwin
Carnage: all that remains of the wrecked Sari nightclub.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

Hunt for sniper is stepped up after fears of 9th victim;
TERROR ATTACKS: Woman hit by single bullet in DIY store car park

BYLINE: James Langton

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 805 words


POLICE stepped up a massive manhunt in Washington today after the sniper who has
already killed eight people was feared to have struck again.

As helicopters with lights and sniffer dogs searched a huge area around the
Virginia suburbs, investigators all but confirmed that a woman hit by a single
shot to the chest in the car park of a home improvement store was the ninth
victim to die.

Her murder last night came almost exactly a week after a 13-year-old boy was
badly wounded outside a school in Bowie, Maryland.

Investigators have so far been unable to rule out a link to terror
organisations, including al Qaeda.

As if taunting the more than 1,000 officers involved in the hunt, the gunman
targeted the woman as she loaded her car on the ground floor of a car park at a
branch of the Home Depot in Falls Church, Virginia. She was pronounced dead at
the scene.

Eyewitnesses said they heard a single shot and saw the woman crumple to the
ground. Within minutes the immediate area and motorways were sealed off in a
wellplanned operation.

There were conflicting reports that the sniper had been seen as he fled, with
messages on police radios speaking both of an olive-skinned man and a white man
with a blue shirt seen carrying a rifle.

Motorways north and west of Washington were blocked off by police, who were
stopping all vehicles and recording their number plates. Police with bloodhounds
could be seen searching a grassy knoll by a church on the other side of the main
highway opposite the car park as a possible hiding spot for the sniper.

Fairfax County Police Chief Tom Manger said from the scene that while it was
"too early to tell" if the shooting was the work of the sniper, his officers
were "working and investigating it with that potential in mind".

He refused to confirm reports that the woman's husband was with her at the time.
An alert was also issued for a cream Chevvy Astro van, possibly with a broken
taillight that was seen speeding away from the scene. The description was almost
identical to a white van spotted at some early shootings.

The latest killing is only a few miles from Rockville, Maryland, where five
people were killed in 16 hours on 2 October, the start of a random shooting
spree that has brought terror to the middleclass suburbs of Washington.

Two more people were shot dead last Wednesday and Friday and while there were
hopes that the killings had ended after two days without further incident it now
seems that the sniper is simply following a pattern in which he rests over the
weekend.

All the shootings have taken place either in the early mor ning or evening using
a .233 bullet and either a hunting or an assault rifle. The difficulty of some
of the shootings, especially the murder of a middle-aged man at a petrol station
on Friday morning, leads police to suspect he may have training as a marksman.

Earlier in the day, President Bush called the killings " coldblooded" and said:
"I weep for those who have lost their loved ones.

The idea of moms taking their kids to school and sheltering them from a
potential sniper attack is not the America I know." A specialist "sniper squad"
with local police members of the FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms poured into the Seven Corners Shopping Centre after last night's
shooting.

But investigators admit they have few clues.

Almost the only evidence are the sightings of white vans, bullets recovered from
victims and a tarot card showing the figure of death and a handwritten message
saying "I am God".

The random nature of the murders does not fit with the pattern of any known
serial killer, leading to speculation that it could be the work of an al Qaeda
cell.

Timetable of shootings

2 October: James D Martin, a 55-year-old computer programmer, is killed in a
grocery store car park in Wheaton, Maryland.

3 October: James "Sonny" Buchanan, 39-year-old gardener, is killed while cutting
grass.

3 October: Prenkumar Walekar, 54, a taxi driver, is killed at a petrol station
as he filled his car with petrol.

3 October: Sarah Ramos, 34, is killed near a post office in Silver Spring.

3 October: Lori Ann Lewis-Rivera, 25, is killed as she vacuumed her van at
another petrol station.

3 October: Pascal Charlot, 72, is killed while walking on a city street in
central Washington.

4 October: A woman, 45, is wounded at a shopping mall. Her name has been
withheld.

7 October: A boy, 13, is wounded as he is dropped off at school in Bowie,
Maryland. His name is withheld.

9 October: Darren Meyer, 53, is shot dead at a petrol station in Manassas,
Virginia.

11 October: Father-of-six Kenneth Bridges is shot dead at a petrol station in
Fredericksburg.

14 October: A woman is shot dead outside a Home Depot store.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FEDERAL AGENTS AT THE SCENE OF THE LATEST SHOOTING

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

Blair's warning: Expect further atrocities;
TERROR ATTACKS: Bombing suspects questioned by police in Bali

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words


THE Government today delivered a direct warning that more terror attacks are
"likely" to come in the wake of the atrocity in Bali.

The bleak message was delivered by Tony Blair's official spokesman as the Prime
Minister prepared to make a statement to the Commons this afternoon.

"We have got to acknowledge at this stage there are likely to be other attacks
post-Bali," the spokesman said. "That is the nature of the evil we are dealing
with."

Home Secretary David Blunkett signalled yesterday that the intelligence services
are not aware of any specific new threat to the United Kingdom.

But today's warning underlines the appeal to be reaffirmed by Mr Blair for
maximum vigilance.

At the same time, Downing Street hit back hard at suggestions that Mr Blair and
President Bush had been wrong to target Iraq and Saddam Hussein.

It was, said the No 10 spokesman, "absurd" that the threat from global terrorism
and the threat from weapons of mass destruction could not both be tackled
equally.

Mr Blair faced warnings from his own party and beyond to abandon any plans for a
military attack against Iraq. Critics said the focus on Saddam since the terror
attacks in September last year had proved merely a distraction from the real
target.

Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy said it would be "folly" to press ahead
now with action on Iraq, saying it must not weaken "the wider effort to combat
terrorism".

He warned: "To focus on Baghdad and Baghdad alone would clearly be a great
mistake." From the Labour Left, all along hostile to military action, MP Alice
Mahon said: "Tony should learn the lesson of Bali and marshal the Government's
resources on fighting terrorism, not backing George Bush's war on Iraq."

Robert Fox writes: The questioning of a group of Pakistanis in connection with
the Bali bombing emphasises the powerful links between Pakistani terror groups
and al Qaeda, since many of Osama bin Laden's commanders were driven into
Pakistan from Afghanistan at the end of last year.

Al Qaeda has had some of its most powerful support in Pakistan since it was
founded by Bin Laden 12 years ago.

Moreover, Pakistan has been a key centre of operations and is the historic
recruiting ground for the Taliban in the madrassas, the religious schools in the
Afghan refugee communities.

Al Qaeda trained Pakistani fighters for the campaign of subversion in Kashmir.
Two groups, the Lashkar-e-Taibar and Jaish-e-Mohammed, connected with Kashmir,
are known to have received training, recruits and funds from Bin Laden.

According to terrorism experts at least 20 groups in Pakistan, who are
sympathetic to al Qaeda and the Talibanare active in Kashmir.

After US attacks on the Tora Bora stronghold of al Qaeda in Afghanistan last
December and January, there are signs the group split its centres of operation
between Pakistan's lawless North-West Frontier province and safe houses in the
suburbs of Karachi, Lahore and Faisalabad.

One of Bin Laden's key commanders, Abu Zubaida, was arrested in Faisalabad last
March. A second commander, Ramzi Binalshibh, was arrested in a shootout in
Karachi this summer.

However, much of the operational command set up by Bin Laden in Afghanistan
since 1996 is still at large and operating across Pakistan and Kashmir. There
are some signs they may have helped set up new terror operations in Singapore,
the Philippines and Indonesia.

The CIA has long been warning about the suspected involvement of al Qaeda in
operations of shadowy Islamic groups in Indonesia, particularly those motivated
by the extreme Islamic line of the Jemaah Islamiyah (the Community of Islam).

Islamic extremists have been operating around Jakarta for some time and have
been blamed for several bombings. One was outside a Christian church in which
expatriates were worshipping and near businesses known to have US and European
links.

The closest pointer that the Bali bombing has al Qaeda support came in a message
to the Al-Jazeera news station from Bin Laden's number two Ayman Zawahiri last
Monday in which he threatened "attacks against America and her allies".

Since then there have been a least five attacks, with the Bali bomb by far the
largest.

It seems to be part of a pattern of operations of a more fragmented network of
al Qaeda cells operating from the Gulf to the Philippines.

More reports: Pages 4 and 5. William Shawcross: Page 11

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

Saudi foiled in plane hijack bid;
Terror Attacks

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 54 words


SAUDI Arabian special forces foiled a hijack attempt today by a Saudi gunman on
a flight from Sudan with 204 passengers and crew on board. No one was injured.

Saudi Arabian Airlines said the aircraft landed safely at Khartoum International
Airport and that Sudanese authorities were interrogating the hijacker.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

The woman writing on the wall of tears;
Terror Attacks: Rows of empty coffins wait to receive victims

BYLINE: Colin Adamson;Frank Thorne

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 496 words


A BRITISH charity worker has been identified as the woman behind the wall of
tears in Bali.

Deborah Haines, from east London, has taken on the sensitive and harrowing job
of writing the names of victims on a huge white chart in the entrance hall of
Sanglah hospital in Denpasar.

The chart has been invaluable to relatives and friends seeking news in the
chaotic aftermath of the attack. The explanation after each name reads: Found,
evacuated, or passed away.

Ms Haines, a teacher, was on a break in Bali from her work in Indonesia as a
Save The Children volunteer.

She was identified by her parents, Leslie and Gwen, today after her photograph
appeared in yesterday's Evening Standard. Mr Haines, speaking at the family home
in East Ham, said: "We are immensely relieved that she is okay. We knew she was
in Bali, but we didn't know about the bombing until she called. She said: 'I'm
okay. The explosion was just up the road from our hotel.'" He said Deborah had
been due to fly back to her work but was staying in Bali to help. He added:
"We're extremely proud of her.

She is obviously feeling the strain of witnessing so much human suffering but
she's bearing up well in hugely difficult circumstances."

British tourists joined Australians and hundreds of Balinese people today in a
silent march and candlelit prayers close to the site of the blast.

Staff from many of Bali's premier businesses carried huge floral tributes to lay
at a shrine in the main street.

Dozens shed tears in remembrance of the dead and injured. There were also signed
protest banners blaming the Indonesian government for not doing enough to make
Bali safe from terrorist attack.

Australia's visiting Foreign Minister, Alexander Downer, and Justice Minister
Chris Ellison, earlier laid wreaths outside the Sari Club.

Many visitors now plan to leave the island after paying their last respects.

Australian quarantine officer, Terry Smith, from Perth, said: "Bali is not safe.
All my family have told me to get out of here before another bomb goes off.

We just want to say our final farewells to our mates and then we will be off,"
he said.

The bodies of the 187 killed in the bomb blasts are at a makeshift morgue
outside the hospital. Outside the morgue stand scores of makeshift wooden
coffins.

Australian Prime Minister John Howard said today that five refrigeration units
to hold between 12 and 17 bodies each have been delivered.

The units have been sent as the decomposing corpses are threatening to become a
health hazard in the outdoor tropical heat.

The Australian government says more will be available if needed. Mr Howard said
the government will pay for the repatriation of all those killed and some bodies
would be flown home today.

"We will also pay the cost of any Australians who need to go to Bali in order to
assist with identification," he said. It is expected to be some time until all
the bodies are identified.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: COFFINS ARE STACKED UP IN ROWS OUTSIDE THE MORGUE AT SANGLAH HOSPITAL
IN BALI. NEARLY 200 PEOPLE, MOST OF THEM YOUNG, DIED IN THE BOMB ATTACKS. THIRTY
-THREE OF THE VICTIMS ARE BELIEVED TO BE BRITISH; DEBORAH HAINES ADDS MORE
INFORMATION TO THE WALL OF NAMES AT THE HOSPITAL

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

Email to families says: We're alive;
After days without a word, couple emerge safe: TERROR ATTACKS: As more British
blast victims are named, message from backpackers is a rare piece of good news

BYLINE: Hugh Muir;Danielle Demetriou

SECTION: Pg. 4;5

LENGTH: 1064 words


MISSING British couple Kate Blackmore and Jamie Houghton, feared dead in the
Bali bomb blasts, dramatically emerged alive and unscathed today. In a grim
week, with precious little good news, at least two British families, who feared
their loved ones had perished, are now planning an ecstatic homecoming.

Kate and Jamie had come to symbolise the pain and anguish of so many whose lives
were shattered by the Bali bombs. For days, their parents had not heard a word
from the touring couple - something disturbingly out of character, particularly
in the circumstances.

Ms Blackmore's sister Rachel, a press officer in London, knew the couple were
planning to spend Saturday night in Bali, but that is all.

Like thousands of other grieving relatives she had nothing to cling to but hope.
She launched a worldwide appeal for information on the BBC's special website . .
. and then waited.

Kate, 25, from Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, last contacted her sister by email
on Thursday from Lombok.

Earlier today, her 28-year-old sister said: "We are trying not to think about
the worst, we are just hoping that they are okay. It's a very anxious time for
me and my parents.

"We are all just sitting by the phone, jumping every time it rings. If they went
back to Bali, then they may have gone to the club. They are hardly the type of
people to have an early night."

Then, suddenly, came the news Rachel had dreamed of. A friend telephoned to say
Jamie, 25, had sent an email to both families, declaring they were alive and
well. She said: "It's really fantastic. We were trying to do everything we could
but it was getting worse as time went on. We don't know all the details yet - we
don't even know where they are - but as long as they are both alive it doesn't
matter."

The email also offered the faintest glimmer of hope to hundreds of other
families waiting for news of holidaymakers missing after the fatal blast.

The Foreign Office has been loath to confirm names of Britons believed to have
died in the attack, and in the uncertainty all relatives can do is search for
clues and wait for a miracle.

Missing person leaflets have been displayed in Denpasar's main hospital
appealing for information about Annika Linden and Nathaniel Miller, two Britons
believed to have been killed. The text is a stark reminder of how brutally their
lives appear to have been cut short.

Both had travelled to Bali with a rugby tour party from the Hong Kong Football
Club. Both were "last seen at the Sari Club on Saturday night".

Mr Miller, 31, a member of the team, was with his wife Polly, who was among the
seriously injured flown off the island to receive treatment at Australia's Royal
Darwin Hospital.

Ms Linden, 29, who moved to Bangkok from Surrey to work as a tourism consultant,
was engaged to Mark Weingard, from Greater Manchester. He flew to Bali from
Bangkok as soon as he heard about the blast and has been frantically searching
hospitals and has posted photographs of her across the resort.

But his search has been hampered by the chaos he has encountered as emergency
workers continue to struggle to deal with the aftermath of the blasts. Mr
Weingard said: "It's so chaotic that I could believe there has been an awful
mistake and Annika will drift into town from somewhere else entirely."

He said he was in New York at the time of the World Trade Center attacks. He
said: "I saw what went on there and the recovery afterwards. You cannot,
however, compare the rescue and identification operation with what is going on
here in Bali. I know they are doing the best they can, but it's total chaos.
There is no control as people wander among the bodies.

And the bodies are being left to rot, covered in ice bags out in the open."

The Hong Kong Football Club today confirmed the deaths of two more of its tour
members - captain Clive Walton, 33, a marketing executive for DHL, originally
from Sunderland and Peter Record, 32.

The club said in a statement: "Clive, as club captain, was not only an
outstanding individual and leader but brought a sense of joy to all those who
encountered him here in Hong Kong and throughout his rugby playing life.

He will be sadly missed.

"Peter Record was a talented rugby player and a great friend to all those that
knew him."

"Whilst we continue to hold out hope of finding those still missing, each
passing hour makes success all the more unlikely".

Other missing players in the Hong Kong team include: Tom Holmes, 39, unmarried,
from Droitwich; Stephen Speirs and Edward Waller, 26.

The rugby team of the Singapore Cricket Club was also badly hit.

Its manager Christian Redman, 30, was today listed as dead. He had lived in the
Far East for several years. Of the club's 17 players who went to Bali, 15 were
from Britain. Five players have returned to Singapore and four of them are in
hospital, officials said.

Mr Redman's father John described Christian as a "super sportsman" and a
"wonderful son". Christian's wife, who has not been named, was in Australia-at
the time of the attack but is planning to fly home.

His father, from St Margaret's Bay at Cliff, near Dover, said although Christian
was on the tour he was unable to play because he had a broken leg.

He worked for TNT in Singapore.

Among others feared dead from the club's rugby team are: Chris Bradford; Chris
Kays; 30, Neil Bowler, 27, Tim Arnold and David Kent.

Ross Tysoe, Australia's consul-general in Denpasar, said today his country is
sending a mobile forensic laboratory to help to identify the dead.

He said: "They will be able to examine DNA from hair and skin. Dental records
will also have to be looked at. Each body will have to be properly identified
before it can be flown home to any other part of the world."

Families were being asked to bring hair brushes which may contain hair follicles
of their missing loved ones, as well as toothbrushes and lists of any tattoos or
distinguishing marks and provide recent photographs if possible to aid
identification.

A team of Scotland Yard forensic science experts has joined the Australian
scientists, the FBI and Australian secret servicemen in the hunt for clues.

As the sun beat down on the island today, the sands which would normally be
packed with British and Australian backpackers were largely deserted.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A LEAFLET ISSUED BY FRIENDS IN A DESPERATE APPEAL TO FIND ANNIKA
LINDEN, 29; KATE BLACKMORE, RIGHT, WITH HER SISTER RACHEL WHO SAID TODAY: "WE
DON'T EVEN KNOW WHERE THEY ARE BUT AS LONG AS THEY ARE ALIVE, IT DOESN'T
MATTER";KATE WITH HER BOYFRIEND JAMIE HOUGHTON. HE SENT THE EMAIL

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

Two ex-pat rugby teams touring Bali left devastated by attack on the Sari
nightclub;
Terror Attacks

SECTION: Pg. 4;5

LENGTH: 76 words


They were two teams enjoying a night out on a rugby tour. But today the
Singapore Cricket Club's team and the Hong Kong Football Club Vandals were
counting their dead.

The Hong Kong side lost their captain, Clive Walton, described as an outstanding
leader who brought a sense of joy to the team.

The manager of the Singapore side, Christian Redman, had broken his leg and was
not even playing. His father described him as "wonderful".


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: NEIL BOWLER, 27: PLAYED FOR THE SINGAPORE CRICKET CLUB'S RUGBY SIDE;
CHRISTIAN REDMAN: TEAM'S MANAGER HAD SUFFERED A BROKEN LEG; CHRIS KAYS, 30:
QUANTITY SURVEYOR FROM READING DIED IN NIGHTCLUB; CLIVE WALTON: "OUTSTANDING"
CAPTAIN OF HONG KONG TEAM; PETER RECORD: "EPITOMISED ALL THAT IS GOOD ABOUT
RUGBY"; STEPHEN SPEIRS: SCHOOLFRIEND SAID HE WAS LIFE AND SOUL OF ANY PARTY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 15, 2002

We've nothing to cling to but hope;
TERROR ATTACKS: Agonising wait for friends and relatives as the search for
victims goes on at site of bomb blast

BYLINE: Hugh Muir;Danielle Demetriou

SECTION: Pg. 4;5

LENGTH: 916 words


KATE BLACKMORE was on the trip of a lifetime as she and boyfriend Jamie Houghton
travelled through Indonesia.

Today she symbolises the pain and anguish of so many whose lives were devastated
by the Bali bombs.

Neither Miss Blackmore nor Mr Houghton have been heard from since the bombing.
Miss Blackmore's sister Rachel, a press officer in London, knows the couple were
planning to spend Saturday night in Bali, but that is all she knows. Like
thousands of other grieving relatives today, she has nothing to cling to but
hope.

Miss Blackmore, 25, from Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, last contacted her sister
by email last Thursday from Lombok. "We are trying not to think about the worst,
we are just hoping that they are okay," said her 28-year-old sister. "It's a
very anxious time for me and my parents.

"We are all just sitting by the phone, jumping every time it rings. If they went
back to Bali, then they may have gone to the club. They are hardly the type of
people to have an early night."

The Foreign Office has been loath to confirm the names of the Britons believed
to have died in the attack and in the uncertainty all relatives can do is search
for clues and wait for a miracle.

Missing person leaflets have been displayed in Denpasar's main hospital
appealing for information about Annika Linden and Nathaniel Miller, two of the
Britons believed to have been killed. The text is a stark reminder of how
brutally their lives appear to have been cut short. Of Mr Miller, 31, known as
Dan, the details are sparse.

All his friends can say is that he was "last seen at the Sari Club on Saturday
night".

Mr Miller had travelled with the Hong Kong Football Club alongside team mates
and his wife Polly, who was among the seriously injured flown off the island to
receive treatment at Australia's Royal Darwin Hospital. There are details about
Miss Linden, 29 which say much about her mood on that tragic evening. She went
to the Sari club wearing a white sleeveless top, camel trousers and a silver
belt.

On her wrist she wore a stainless steel Cartier watch and a gold bangle. It
supports the vivacious picture painted of her by friends who say she lived life
to the full.

Miss Linden moved to Bangkok from Surrey to work as a tourism consultant and was
engaged to Mark Weingard, originally from Greater Manchester.

She was also travelling alongside the rugby players from the Hong Kong Football
Club.

Her fiance flew to Bali from Bangkok as soon as he heard about the blast and has
been frantically searching hospitals and has posted photographs of her across
the resort.

But his search has been hampered by the scenes of chaos he has encountered as
emergency workers continue to struggle to deal with the blasts.

Mr Weingard said: "It's total chaos. It's so chaotic that I could believe there
has been an awful mistake and Annika will drift into town from somewhere else
entirely."

MR Weingard revealed he was in New York at the time of the World Trade Center
terrorist attacks. He said: "I saw what went on there and the recovery
afterwards. You cannot, however, compare the rescue and identification operation
with what is going on here in Bali.

"I know they are doing the best they can and many good people have come forward
to volunteer but it's total chaos.

"There is no control as people wander among the bodies. And the bodies are being
left to rot, covered in ice bags out in the open."

These are the conditions which confront the experts as they try to make sense of
what has happened-A team of Scotland Yard forensic experts has joined Australian
scientists, the FBI and Australian secret servicemen in the hunt for clues.

Ross Tysoe, Australia's consulgeneral in Denpasar, said today that his country
is also sending a mobile forensic laboratory to help to identify the dead.

"They will be able to examine DNA from hair, skin and that sort of thing.

Dental records will also have to be looked in the task of identifying each body.

"Each one will have to be properly identified before it can be flown home to
either Australia, Britain or any other part of the world."

Mr Tysoe also said that an international disaster organisation, called Kenyon
International, which specialises in aircraft disasters, has been contracted to
handle the bodies.

Families were being asked to bring hair brushes which may contain hair follicles
of their missing loved ones, toothbrushes, list any tattoos or distinguishing
marks and provide recent photographs if possible to aid identification. "DNA and
dental records will be used," added Mr Tysoe.

As the sun beat down on the island today, the sands which at this time of year
would normally be packed with British and Australian backpackers and families
enjoying the last of the Australian school holidays, were largely deserted.

Danny Haines, 20, from Newcastle-upon-Tyne, took a last look at Kuta beach today
before leaving: "I got here a few hours before the bomb went off. I was having
dinner downtown and was going to go on to the nightclub when it went up.

"It was a hell of a shock. Bali is supposed to be one of the most peaceful
places on earth.

"Now I'm heading for Perth. I'd rather be safe and alive in Australia.

"There's hardly any holidaymakers left here, anyway. The place has virtually
shut down."

Deserted beaches; awful carnage; shattered lives.

These are the achievements today of whoever planted the Bali bomb.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: RACHEL BLACKMORE WITH HER SISTER KATE, RIGHT, WHO IS LISTED AS MISSING.
"WE ARE TRYING NOT TO THINK THE WORST," RACHEL SAID TODAY; CARNAGE: ALL THAT
REMAINS OF THE WRECKED SARI NIGHTCLUB

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 15, 2002

Bali bombing: Oil companies could be next on terrorists' hitlist: Targets
Further attacks may be planned in the Far East

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington and Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 615 words


US and British counter-terrorist officials believe the Bali bombing could mark
the start of a wider terrorist campaign against westerners in the Far East,
including more "soft" tourist targets and oil companies operating in the region.

"Bali was not a one-off," one Whitehall counter-terrorist official said. But he
added that such attacks were not likely to be frequent.

Washington appears convinced that the Bali attack was al-Qaida inspired and
could have been triggered by a taped message from Ayman al-Zawahiri, the
organisation's deputy leader and ideologue, broadcast earlier this month on the
al-Jazeera satellite television channel.

However, British security and intelligence sources assume that Jemaah Islamiyah,
the Indonesian-based group affiliated to al-Qaida, chose the target and made the
decision to launch the attack locally.

Officers from Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch are on their way to Jakarta
to help with the investigation. MI5 officers are expected to travel to Indonesia
later to advise on counter-terrorism.

Analysts said Washington's first move would be to put Jemaah Islamiyah, a loose
network of Islamist militants, on the state department list of terrorist groups,
which would trigger the freezing of its assets and potential sanctions if the
Indonesian government fails to take firm action against it.

The Bali bombing was a jarring reminder of the strength of terrorist networks in
south-east Asia. The Indonesian and American authorities believed they had
foiled a plot to attack US embassies across the region on the anniversary of
September 11 with a string of arrests last month.

There are now fears that the attack may be one of a series planned in the
region, set in motion by al-Zawahiri's message. The Wall Street Journal reported
that an unnamed US oil company had been warned by the US embassy that the energy
industry could be a target.

Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, Indonesia's security minister, also claimed "there is
information the energy sector will be targeted by terrorists".

A few hours before the Bali blast, the Australian attorney general, Darryl
Williams, revealed that Australian oil, gas and power plants could be hit by
al-Qaida.

For the past few months, the US has put pressure on Indonesia's president,
Megawati Sukarnoputri, to support the outlawing of Jemaah Islamiyah and its
leader, Abu Bakar Ba'asyir.

On September 9, a Kuwaiti al-Qaida member, Omar al-Faruq, who was arrested three
months earlier by Indonesian police, told his American interrogators he had been
sent to south-east Asia to set up cells to carry out attacks against US
embassies. He said Mr Ba'asyir had offered the support of his network. A few
days later, Karen Brooks, an Indonesian specialist on the White House national
security council, flew to Jakarta to present the evidence to Ms Megawati, backed
up by a phone call from President Bush. Indonesian police arrested a German
national, Seyam Reda, a few days later on suspicion of his role in the plot.

There was no evidence yesterday that the Pentagon was planning a direct response
to the Bali attack. However, in a set of guidelines leaked to the New York
Times, the defence secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, reasserted his aggressive
approach to tackling threats to US national interests.

Mr Rumsfeld writes: "US leadership should make a judgment as to when diplomacy
has failed and act forcefully, early, during the pre-crisis period, to try to
alter the behaviour of others and to prevent the conflict."

If that fails, he argues, the US should "be willing and prepared to act
decisively to use the force necessary to prevail, plus some".


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 15, 2002, Tuesday

BALI BOMBING: INDONESIA BLAMES AL-QA'IDA FOR ATTACK ON PARADISE RESORT;
  TERROR

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe In Washington The Indonesian Defence Minister, Matori
Abdul Djalil, top; George; Bush

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 717 words


THE INDONESIAN government yesterday accused al-Qa'ida of carrying out the Bali
bombings - adding to growing concerns that the terror network is behind a new
wave of attacks.

At the same time, a statement, purportedly from Osama bin Laden, praised the
recent assault on US marines in Kuwait and the bomb attack against a French
tanker off the coast of Yemen.

While suspicions immediately turned to al-Qa'ida in the aftermath of the
nightclub attack, the comments by the Indonesian Defence Minister, Matori Abdul
Djalil, are the first from an official to blame the network by name. "We are
sure al-Qa'ida is here," he said, after a cabinet meeting in Jakarta. "The Bali
bomb blast is related to al-Qa'ida with the cooperation of local terrorists."

Intelligence officials believe the attack may represent the latest in a new wave
of al-Qa'ida assaults. President George Bush said it must be assumed that its
terrorists were responsible for the explosions. Yesterday Mr Bush described the
attackers as "cold blooded killers" and said he would be speaking to Indonesian
leader Megawati Sukarnoputri to discuss evidence that al-Qa'ida was behind the
blast.

" We will do everything we can to disrupt and deny and to bring to justice these
people who have no soul, no conscience," he said.

" The attackers do not value human life in the same way as we value human life
in the civilised world. I will be speaking to Miss Megawati later today and I
hope to detect the resolve of a leader who is ready to work together to tackle
the terrorists ."

Last week the US State Department warned that Indonesia was becoming a home to
terrorists. After the bombings, the US Embassy in Jakarta said on its website
that the attack "comes on the heels of previous warnings of Americans at risk,
and highlights the mounting threat to Americans wherever they are in Indonesia".

Ralph Boyce, the US ambassador, said although he could not yet pin the attack on
al-Qa'ida, there has been growing evidence that the network has been reaching
out to local militants.

The attack came on the second anniversary of the bombing of the destroyer USS
Cole off the coast of Yemen, in which 17 sailors died. It also followed recent
attacks on Western targets, including the bombing of a French tanker off the
coast of Yemen 10 days ago and the attack last week on US marines in Kuwait. One
marine was killed after two gunmen, allegedly with links to al-Qa'ida, opened
fire with automatic weapons.

Many in the intelligence community appear to believe that an attack of the scale
of the Kuta Beach bombing was only a matter of time. One US official with access
to daily intelligence reports, told the Washington Post: "This has been coming
for a while now. People have been warning of all kinds of attacks."

Adding to the concern about a new wave of attacks has been the flurry of
messages from the al-Qa'ida leadership. Last week, Ayman al-Zawahiri, considered
Mr bin Laden's deputy, broadcast a message which called on members of the
network to carry out attacks on American targets.

Yesterday a statement on the internet, purporting to come from Mr Bin Laden,
said the recent attacks sent a "clear and strong message to all enemies and
friends alike that holy warriors, with God's help, haven't been weakened by what
befell them". It added: "We congratulate our Islamic community on the bold,
heroic holy war that was executed by its sons of the faithful holy warriors in
Yemen against a crusader oil tanker and in Kuwait against the invading and
occupying American troops.

"By exploding the oil tanker in Yemen, the holy warriors hit the umbilical cord
and lifeline of the crusader community, reminding the enemy of the heavy cost of
blood and the gravity of losses they will pay as a price for their continued
aggression on our community and looting of our wealth."

President Bush said he did not know whether Mr bin Laden was alive or dead.

Counter-terrorism officials believe the recent messages - are a sign of al
-Qa'ida's leadership trying to show to its rank-and-file followers that it is
still operational.

The FBI last week issued a warning to state and local law enforcement agencies
that a new al-Qa'ida attack on the US has been approved by the network's
leadership.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 15, 2002

MEN OF TERROR SWITCH ATTACKS TO SOFT TARGETS

BYLINE: Simon Hughes and George Pascoe-Watson

SECTION: BALI BOMB

LENGTH: 553 words


    A TERROR expert yesterday said the Bali bombing marked a new phase in al
Qa'ida's campaign -in which they concentrate on SOFT targets.

    Jonathan Stevenson, of the London-based International Institute of Strategic
Studies, said the terrorists had been forced to dramatically alter tactics since
9/11.

    He said: "The al-Qa'ida network has been severely compromised by the West's
response to September 11.

    "They know that security is too tight for them to act around more
traditional targets, so they have plumped for a soft target.

    "Striking somewhere like Bali, which will have very little to no security,
is a new departure from such grandiose attacks as September 11. But they have
very little choice."

    He also said he believed the Bali attack is just the first of many.

    Mr Stevenson added: "One thing that is certain is we are likely to see more
and more attacks in this area."

    Innocent

    And despite the carnage caused, he said the group's crazed followers would
regard a nightclub packed with innocent youngsters as the perfect place to
explode a bomb.

    Mr Stevenson went on: "The club will be seen as a legitimate economic
target, as the crowd was made up mainly of Australians, British and Americans.
Australia is a very aggressive backer of US foreign policy...so it could well be
some sort of retaliation for that."

    He said the group behind the attack was almost certainly Jeemah Islamiyah -
Islamic Community -which is an al-Qa'ida splinter group with close links to
Osama bin Laden.

    Only two years ago bin Laden's deputy Ayman Al-Zawahiri travelled to
Indonesia for talks with extremists.

    Mr Stevenson added: "Jeemah Islamiyah have been associated with other
attacks in nightclubs in the region -they look like the most likely candidates.

    "Al-Qa'ida operate much like a holding company, with affiliated groups who
are afforded more or less independence. Since September 11, with the al-Qa'ida
networks constricted, these groups have been given more autonomy to carry out
out attacks."

    In London, fanatical Muslim leader Abu Hamza said he was CERTAIN it was
another bin Laden atrocity.

    Asked if al-Qa'ida were responsible, he said: "Definitely."

    Speaking as victims' friends in Bali were checking the long list of dead, he
warned other targets would be hit in revenge for "US arrogance".

    In contrast, a sickened and angry Tony Blair damned the Bali bombers, saying
"their evil knows no limits".

    The PM said: "We have yet again evidence of the appalling depths to which
these extremists will sink.

    "They are not interested in the destruction and devastation they wreak upon
families who have lost their loved ones. The response of ourselves has got to be
one of total vigilance and determination to take whatever measures are
necessary.

    Priority

    "But as these events have shown, it is difficult when we are dealing with
these extremist groups whose activities know no frontiers and whose evil knows
no limits."

    Mr Blair is due to make a Commons statement on the horror today.

    Meanwhile, Middle East TV station al-Jazeera said it had a statement from
bin Laden hailing attacks on US Marines in Kuwait and the bombing of a tanker
off Yemen. It declared: "The priority must be against infidels -Americans and
Jews."

    See The Sun Says


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 16, 2002

LEADER AS THE BALI NIGHTCLUB BOMBING SPREADS FEAR OF TERROR ATTACKS. . .; COULD
ISLAM'S MEN OF EVIL STRIKE HERE?

BYLINE: MARK URBAN

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 856 words


IS BRITAIN next? Even trying to answer that question, we must distinguish
between the motive for Islamic terrorists and their opportunities.

Among those Brits who like to call Tony Blair Bush's poodle there's a feeling
that we must be laying ourselves open to some ghastly Al Qaeda attack by acting
as Washington's cheerleader. Some even argue that we are "asking for it", as if
such a tragedy would vindicate all their predictions about the dangers of being
too close an ally to the Americans.

What exactly was the reason for Al Qaeda's 1998 bomb attacks in East Africa that
killed more than 240 people, only 12 of whom were Americans? It was certainly
nothing to do with the foreign policy line that the Kenyan and Tanzanian
governments had taken.

The pat answer would be: the targets of the East African bombings were American
diplomatic missions, which were pretty obvious as objects for the wrath of
someone like Osama bin Laden. But why in Nairobi? Why not Berlin or Manila or
even London? The majority of those killed in 1998 were Africans who'd been going
about their business.

This issue is even more vexed in Bali, if indeed it turns out to be an attack by
an Al Qaeda affiliate group. The victims were a mix of Australians, Brits,
Balinese, you name it.

The perpetrators could have surmised that they were very unlikely to kill
Muslims in such a place as Kuta Beach but that's about as far as there is any
logic to the targeting.

And why Indonesia, a predominantly Islamic country, rather than one of the
dozens of other places from Phuket to Tijuana where they could have exploited
Third World security standards to get close to a lot of Western youngsters and
slaughter them? The answer lies in opportunity: that combination of willing
fanatics, explosives and the availability of something that passes as worth
targeting as a representation of Western power or lifestyle. There are some
suitable Islamist militants in London, targets aplenty, but a problem obtaining
the quantities of high explosive needed to flatten Grosvenor Square or some
other symbol.

The Anti-Terrorist Branch has been arguing for some time that Al Qaeda would not
bother with Britain unless it could bring off something really spectacular,
something almost on a par with 9/11.

It isn't easy for fanatics to make an incident on that scale happen. For one
thing, the people who were trained in Afghanistan or have come here as Islamist
dissidents from Arab countries are under much greater MI5 and Special Branch
surveillance than before. Big terrorist attacks - say planting several truck
bombs in central London - require lots of people and the more who know about
something like this, the greater the chance that one of them will be an "asset"
of one of our intelligence services.

Then there are the difficulties of bringing tons of high explosive into this
country. It is for this reason that there has been a great deal of attention
given by British security agencies to alternative methods of staging a
"spectacular", such as crashing a hijacked aircraft or using non-conventional
weapons.

However, the activities of MI5 and Special Branch do not make us Al Qaeda-proof.

Counter-terrorism is a cat-and-mouse trial of endurance and it may well be that
in the coming years or months, some cell is able to bring it all together in
some part of Britain and perpetrate some terrible crime.

What it does mean is that it's easier to try elsewhere. All sorts of Al Qaeda
plots have been uncovered in recent years: one to blow up several airliners
leaving Manila in the Philippines; to attack American warships from Morocco; to
rocket an Israeli tourist resort from Jordan. The majority involved taking
advantage of poor security standards as well as pools of local sympathisers to
strike at Western interests. Opportunity does not decide everything but it is
critical.

How about a motive? However much Bin Laden, if he is still alive, or his number
two Ayman Zawahiri might want to wipe out the British Cabinet, there are some
other things they'd rather do: kill President Bush; flatten the White House; use
weapons of mass destruction on the streets of Tel Aviv; topple Pervez Musharraf
so that Islamists might take power in a nuclear-armed Muslim state.

ODDLY, those who sing the tune of "we're laying ourselves open by being
America's allies" may be making the same mistake as our foreign policy
establishment has for years: over-estimating Britain's importance in the global
scheme of things. But it is only when absolutely everything goes right for the
terrorist that they can hit the most symbolically important targets like the
World Trade Center or the Pentagon.

The danger for Britons holidaying or doing business around the world is that the
lines marked "motive" and "opportunity" can intersect at various points on the
terror graph, and in a way the weaker the motive for attacking a particular
target, the lower the security vigilance will be and therefore the greater the
opportunity. This is the grim lesson of the Sari Club.

Mark Urban is diplomatic editor of Newsnight on BBC2.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                                October 16, 2002

Family survives terror attack .

BYLINE: Wantage staff reporter

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 289 words



TWO nephews and a niece of a Wilton councillor had a terrifying brush with death
when Islamic militants opened fire at a school the three children attend in
Pakistan.

Six people were killed in the shootings at the Murree Christian boarding school
and Bryn, Jessica and Peter Abbott had to duck the hail of bullets.

Bryn (17), Jessica (12) and Peter (eight) are grandchildren of Wilton couple
Barry and Barbara Abbott, and their uncle is former town mayor Cllr Tim Abbott.

The children live in Pakistan with parents Rupert and Janet Abbott (both 45),
who have an older son Thomas (21), who is teaching English in China. The three
younger children were all at the school in Murree, which is about 35 miles
north-east of Islamabad, when the four gunmen opened fire with AK-47 assault
rifles.

Jessica was crossing the courtyard to have a cut finger attended to when the
shooting began at 11am.

Cllr Abbott, who has been in touch with the family, said: This was a very close
call. Jessica had to duck the bullets. Bryn and Peter were in their classrooms
at the time and, with their teachers and classmates, had to dive for cover under
their desks as the gunmen fired shots at random outside.

Their father, Rupert, a former pupil of Salisbury's Cathedral School, is
chairman of the board of governors at the Murree school run by a Protestant
missionary but was off the campus at the time of the shooting.

The senior police officer in Murree, Supt Syed Marayet, said that the militants'
objective was to kill foreign children and anyone else they came across.

The attack was the third against Christian institutions in Pakistan since
President Musharraf joined the United States-led war on terror last year.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 17, 2002, Thursday

FAMILY IN TERROR AFTER BRUTAL ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 273 words


A STRABANE police chief said yesterday that republican paramilitaries were
suspected of being behind the brutal shooting and beating of a local man.

Up to 13 men shot the 42-year-old man in both elbows and both legs and beat him
up in his Carlton Drive home.

Strabane PSNI Inspector Bertie Gough said yesterday that police were still
trying to establish a motive.

"Any sensible person will consider this a barbaric attack. These are masked
individuals who entered an estate in Strabane and who subjected this man to
severe abuse.

"His partner's children have had no experience of anything like this and they
were in a traumatic state afterwards," he said.

It was at around 8.30pm on Tuesday night that the gang forced their way into the
victim's home. As well as the four gunshot wounds, the man sustained cuts and
bruising to his head.

Eugene McMenamin, Strabane SDLP Assembly member, said yesterday that he was
appalled by the beating.

"This barbaric act has to be condemned by all right-thinking people. I don't
know the logic behind this attack but the sooner that we get the Good Friday
Agreement back on track these types of incidents will be eradicated.

"Summary justice and kangaroo courts have no place in our society," said Mr
McMenamin.

In neighbouring Londonderry two men arrested and questioned about the shooting
in both legs of bus driver Danny McBrearty, in front of pensioners returning
from a day trip to Co Donegal, have been released without charge.

Mr McBrearty had been driving the bus through the Creggan estate when he was
attacked by a gang thought to be from the IRA.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 17, 2002

BRITONS TOLD: FLEE INDONESIA;
FO warning of new attack by terrorists

BYLINE: Joe Murphy

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 221 words


BRITONS were today told to get out of Indonesia after new information about the
terrorist threat following the Bali bombs.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw issued urgent new travel advice and warned that any
Britons who insisted on remaining should take "extreme caution".

Nonessential British Embassy staff and their dependents are being given the
option to leave immediately, although most are expected to stay to help with the
crisis.

Until today Britons were being told not to travel to Bali and to exercise
caution in the rest of Indonesia. The new guid-

ance is the most serious warning since British citizens were advised to leave
India and Pakistan earlier this year when war was expected. In a statement, Mr
Straw said: "In the light of further information and consideration I am now
agreed that we should advise against all travel to Indonesia and recommend that
all British citizens should consider leaving if their presence is not essential.

"British citizens who remain should exercise extreme caution in public places
including clubs, restaurants, bars, schools, places of worship and outdoor
recreational venues." The alert mirrors advice given by Australia today telling
its citizens to leave following what it called " disturbing new information".
The exact threat was not specified.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 17, 2002, Thursday

BALI AFTERMATH: HUNT FOR TERRORISTS: AUSTRALIA WARNED OF ATTACK

BYLINE: Mark Ellis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 206 words

HIGHLIGHT: PROBE: Mr Howard


AUSTRALIAN Prime Minister John Howard has ordered a probe into how a tip-off
that pointed to a terror attack in Bali was missed.

The move came amid reports that the CIA received information two weeks ago that
tourist sites on the island had been targeted.

But Mr Howard said US officials had told him that they had no specific
information on a planned bombing in Bali.

He told the Australian parliament: "The only relevant reference to Bali in
recent intelligence was its inclusion, along with a number of tourist and
cultural locations across Indonesia." Details about a possible tourist attack
within the country are said to have emerged when the CIA questioned Omar
al-Faruq, a captured al-Qaeda operative.

The warning was based on intercepted communications which signalled a strike
against "a Western tourist site".

Meanwhile, fears were growing last night of a backlash against Muslims living in
Australia.

Mr Howard to urged people to show tolerance in the wake of the Bali bombing.

He said: "Australians are a very tolerant, open people and I encourage them to
remain so.

"I say to the Muslims of Australia, 'You are welcome in this country, and join
us in fighting fanaticism and extremism'."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Sevenoaks Chronicle

                                October 17, 2002

Shock and anger follow terrorist attack in Bali

SECTION: Community News; U; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 330 words


RESIDENTS have been rocked by the terrible act of terrorism in Bali . More than
180 are feared dead and hundreds more injured in the bomb blast but so far there
have been no reports of anyone from the Sevenoaks area being involved. A sense
of sadness, reminiscent of the aftermath of September 11, has returned to the
area since the car bomb at Kuta's Sari Club on Saturday. In the wake of the
atrocity, the Foreign Office is advising Britons not to travel to Indonesia, and
those already there to return, but it appears this has not affected Sennockians.

Wendy Billington, managing director of Riverhead-based Billington Travel, said
one of her customers came back from Bali last week and there are no more trips
planned.

She added: "People are very concerned for those who are suffering and have lost
their lives so I shouldn't think anyone will want to book to go there in the
next month or two.

"It may well be like last year after September 11, when things got back to
normal after six weeks or so as far as we're concerned. Obviously people are
currently very sensitive." Sevenoaks Travel boss John Piper also reported that
he does not have any clients currently in, or planning to fly to, Indonesia.

Meanwhile a former Sevenoaks Schoolboy has been left stunned by the bombing,
having spent many enjoyable hours socialising in the Sari Club during two trips
to Bali. Bradley Morrish told the Chronicle this week: "It was the most popular
bar/club on the island and a good, fun place full of young Australian, English,
Japanese and European tourists.

"It was most definitely a busy bar that was really friendly and everybody there
was out to have a good time." The 24-year-old added: "When I heard about the
bomb I was shocked and angered because the terrorists have attacked young people
just enjoying themselves on holiday.

"I cannot understand why these horrible people, whoever they are, target those
who are not causing anyone any harm." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Sevenoaks Chronicle

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Sevenoaks Chronicle

                                October 17, 2002

Shock and anger follows terrorist attack in Bali

SECTION: Community News; U; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 391 words


RESIDENTS have been rocked by the terrible act of terrorism in Bali. More than
180 are feared dead and hundreds more injured in the bomb blast, but so far
there have been no reports of anyone from the area being involved. A sense of
sadness, reminiscent of the aftermath of September 11, returned to the district
after news of the car bomb at Kuta's Sari Club on Saturday. In the wake of the
atrocity, the Foreign Office is advising Britons not to travel to Indonesia, and
those already there to return.

Customers who had booked flights to the popular Indonesian tourist spot, through
travel agents in Biggin Hill and Oxted, are being forced to cancel their trips.

Andy Slumbers, manager of Oxted-based Travel Care in Station Road East, said:
"We do have tour operators who fly to Bali but, thankfully, we didn't have
anyone out there at the time of the bombing.

"We have customers due to travel there but we comply strictly with foreign
office advice, so flights to Bali have been cancelled for now.

"It is a beautiful place," he added,"but it will take time before people are
willing, or able, to go back there, but hopefully it will get back to normal
sometime in the near future." A similar story was confirmed by Travel Experience
in Main Road, Biggin Hill, in the wake of the terrorist explosions at Kuta
Beach, which have claimed dozens of lives.

Manager Lawrence Allen said he had a number of passengers due to fly out to
Bali, but none on the island at the time.

He commented: "At the moment we've noticed that tour operators are refunding
customers due to travel up to October 31, and we're working along similar lines.

"Obviously it's early days, so it remains to be seen how we will continue to
deal with this issue." Meanwhile, a former Sevenoaks Schoolboy has been left
stunned by the bombing, having spent many enjoyable hours socialising in the
Sari Club during two trips to Bali. Bradley Morrish told the Chronicle this
week: "It was the most popular bar/club on the island and a good fun place full
of young Australian, English, Japanese and European tourists.

"It was most definitely a busy bar that was really friendly and everybody there
was out to have a good time.

"I cannot understand why these horrible people, whoever they are, target those
who are not causing anyone any harm." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Sevenoaks Chronicle

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 18, 2002

TERROR IN PARADISE MINISTERS WERE WARNED THAT HOLIDAY ISLE WAS TARGET FOR MUSLIM
TERRORISTS WEEKS BEFORE THE NIGHTCLUB ATTACK FOREIGN OFFICE UNDER FIRE OVER BALI
BOMB WARNING; HOWMUCH DID WE KNOW?

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2 3

LENGTH: 692 words


DOWNING Street last night dramatically admitted that ministers were clearly
warned Bali was a target for Muslim terrorists weeks before the devastating
nightclub bombing.

But officials insisted the warning had been "generic", contained no detail about
where an attack would occur, and also mentioned five other tourist hotspots in
Indonesia.

The acknowledgment of a tip-off that Bali was a likely target placed Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw in deep political trouble. Minutes earlier he had insisted
no warning singling out the island had been received.

A low-key caution to travellers to take more care in Indonesia in general was
posted on the Foreign Office website late in August, shortly after the
intelligence advice was received. But it did not specify Bali or the other
places mentioned in the tip-off to MI6.

Last night Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith demanded that Tony Blair clear up the
confusion about what exactly the Government knew and when, and why more was not
done to warn British tourists of the risks.

As Britons were finally told to flee Bali yesterday - and bombers struck again
in the Philippines - Mr Straw faced searching questions about intelligence
tip-offs that the island had become a likely target for Muslim extremists.

He was flung into an even deeper crisis after Downing Street belatedly admitted
a warning mentioning Bali by name had been picked up earlier this year.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman owned up to Britain getting the warning
- just minutes after Mr Straw had issued an apparent "promise" to the BBC that
no such tip-off was ever received.

After spending the day stonewalling on whether any intelligence report had
warned about Bali being targeted by terrorists, Downing Street acknowledged
receiving the same warning as that received by the Australian government.

The intelligence report was of a "generic" nature and applied to Bali and five
other places in Indonesia, said the Prime Minister's official spokesman. The
"non-specific" intelligence included no details about possible targets or the
timing of attacks, he said.

The spokesman said the Foreign Office's travel advice to tourists had been
updated on August 27 in the wake of the warning.

But that advice did not mention Bali or any other possible terror hotspot within
Indonesia by name and the Daily Express has learned it was not accompanied by
any press notice flagging up the heightened danger.

Instead, it was slipped out on the department's website. The new advice told
travellers Indonesia was "one of a number of countries where there is an
increased threat". It warned them they should be "extra vigilant in public
places".

Yesterday Mr Straw told Britons to get out of Indonesia if they could and to
exercise "extreme caution" if they had to stay.

He also withdrew non-essential embassy staff and their families in the light of
"further information" received about an on-going terrorist threat.

But when pressed by one BBC correspondent about whether any intelligence warning
prior to the weekend had singled out Bali, he said "I promise you" no such alert
had been received.

Mr Blair had earlier told the Cabinet to be braced for further terrorist
atrocities.

He told ministers: "We can't predict when they will strike next, we can't
predict where. But we have to be honest about this - there will be further
attacks."

The PM told his ministers the Government would "err on the side of caution" in
its travel advice to Britons, but added: "We have to be careful we do not bring
whole countries to a halt."

Last night Mr Duncan Smith turned the heat on Mr Blair for an explanation about
the Government's apparent failure to pass on warnings to British travellers.

He said: "The US government warned its citizens last Thursday to stay away from
venues such as nightclubs in certain countries. Two days later, on the morning
of the bombing, the American embassy in Jakarta told its citizens in Indonesia
to avoid venues frequented by Westerners."

Meanwhile, the Australian government has admitted that it did not act on similar
intelligence from the CIA.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 18, 2002

Bali bombing: Double Philippine strike leaves six dead: Attack Terror group with
al-Qaida link accused

BYLINE: John Aglionby, South-east Asia correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 580 words


Two bombs exploded in crowded shopping centres in the southern Philippine city
of Zamboanga yesterday killing six people and injuring 143.

No one has claimed responsibility for the blasts - in neighbouring centres - but
a military spokesman blamed a faction of Abu Sayyaf, a notorious terrorist
group, based in the region, that specialises in kidnapping and bombings.

It is not clear yet if there is any connection with the explosions and
Saturday's bomb on the Indonesian island of Bali that left at least 183 people
dead.

Police said the Zamboanga bombs, which were made of TNT, were similar to a
device that exploded in the city on October 2, killing four people including an
American soldier.

Some 260 US troops are in the southern Philippines continuing training exercises
that were started earlier this year to improve the Philippine army's ability to
fight organisations such as Abu Sayyaf.

The first bomb exploded at the bag counter in the popular Shop-o-Rama department
store just before noon. "The ground shook and pandemonium broke out," said
Ofelia Fernandez, who was across the street at the time. "People bathed in blood
were all screaming and running away from the smoke."

Police officers, firefighters and emergency workers rushed to the scene to
attend the victims and cordon off the area. Local television footage showed
dazed and badly injured people covered in blood fleeing from the scene.

About 20 minutes later, as security forces were starting to seal off the area,
the second bomb went off at the Shoppers Central store, one block away.

The injured were rushed to various hospitals across the city, which quickly
became overwhelmed.

The six fatalities from the two explosions included three women and a child. Of
the injured, 20 were reportedly in a critical condition.

Police officers later found at least seven other packages, two of which proved
to be bombs. They were defused. All shops in the city centre closed, streets
were blocked off and many schools in the city sent pupils home. The armed forces
commander for the southern Philippines, Lieutenant General Narciso Abaya, who
had taken up the post only hours before the first blast, promised to find the
perpetrators.

"We will get to the bottom of this," he said, as he personally led troops to
secure the area. "We condemn this terrorist act. Terrorists can strike at the
most unexpected time and for as long as they can to inflict the maximum casualty
to helpless victims in order to sow fear."

Army spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Danilo Servando said the authorities were not
certain who planted the bombs but thought Abu Sayyaf, which Philippine
authorities have linked to al-Qaida, was probably responsible.

"We are looking at the group of (overall Abu Sayyaf commander) Khadaffy
Janjalani as primarily responsible for the incident," he said. "The bombs
recovered were similar to the ones used in the Malagutay explosion (on October
2)."

The mayor of Zamboanga, Maria Clara Lobregat, agreed Muslim extremists were the
most likely culprits. When asked if she thought they were involved, she said:
"Most probably. They are the only ones who would do this. One can only weep at
what these terrorists have done."

By last night police had questioned at least 16 people, including two Turks and
a Malaysian in connection with the bombs. Detectives refused to comment on
whether any were suspects and the three foreigners were released.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 18, 2002, Friday

GLOBAL TERRORISM: TERRORIST ATTACKS - PHILIPPINES BLASTS RAISE FEAR OF BLOODY
CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: David Usborne In New York A wounded victim of the blasts in the
Philippines port of Zamboanga is taken for treatment AP/STR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 583 words


FEARS DEEPENED yesterday that South-east Asia may be facing a long series of
bloody terror attacks after a series of bombs ripped through a crowded shopping
centre in the southern Philippines, killing six people.

Government officials quickly blamed Muslim militants in the mostly Roman
Catholic country. They also raised the possibility that the latest attack was
the work of Jamaah Islamiya, the group that has been linked to last weekend's
carnage at a nightclub on the Indonesian island of Bali.

"The perpetrators are more or less connected, or there is some connection in
bombings occurring in the region," a foreign ministry spokesman told reporters
in Manila, the Philippines' capital.

A pair of explosions tore into a commercial complex in the city of Zamboanga
during the lunch hour yesterday. The first explosion, near a vegetable shop, was
followed by a second blast about 30 minutes later. At least two other bombs in
the Shop-o-Rama mall were later defused.

The city is located on the politically volatile island of Mindanao, which has
been the scene of a violent rebellion by Muslim activists. It is home to about
four million Muslims in a nation of 76 million.

There is also a significant American presence in the region. About 260 US troops
are stationed in Zamboanga, the remnants of a 1,000-strong force deployed there
by President George Bush to assist the Philippines military in countering the
rebels.

Witnesses at the scene of the explosions reported carnage with blood- smeared
floors and shattered glass.

One victim was decapitated. A man's body was catapulted through a window. After
the first blast, shouts rang out of "Run, run. Another explosion!". Among the
victims were two policemen and four shoppers. "All threat groups are suspect in
this incident, including the Jamaah Islamiya ... and others," Lieutenant-Colonel
Danilo Servando, a spokesman for the armed forces, said, referring to the group
based in Indonesia that some have linked to al-Qa'ida.

Lieutenant General Narciso Abaya, newly installed southern military command
chief, told reporters: "The bombings are apparently coordinated. They are
targeting crowded places where there are plenty of civilians."

The bombing, as well as the weekend attack on Bali in which more than 180
people, most of them foreign tourists, died, comes barely a week after American
officials raised its terror threat rating for all of South-east Asia and warned
governments there to be prepared for a dramatic escalation in attacks.

US intelligence concluded some weeks ago that al-Qa'ida cells had chosen
Indonesia and possibly other countries in the region to regroup after being
chased from Afghanistan by US troops in the wake of last September's terrorist
attacks in America.

Concern is mounting that the sudden eruption of violence in the region could
presage new attacks on US soil.

The Mayor of Zamboanga, Maria Clara Lobregat, said: "One can only weep at what
these terrorists have done."

Medical workers said that at least 20 of those wounded in the Shop-o- Rama
complex were in critical condition at the city's main hospital.

Police said no foreigners had been hurt. Security measures in the city had
already been tightened because of the Bali tragedy.

Police said last night that they were interviewing 16 people in connection with
the attack, including two Turkish nationals and a Malaysian. Local media reports
said four Pakistanis were also being questioned.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 18, 2002

Blair comes clean on futility of war;
 US-led war will not stop more terrorist attacks

BYLINE: by ADRIAN ROBERTS

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 367 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair admitted to the Cabinet yesterday that the US-led "war
on terrorism" would not prevent further outrages like last Sunday's Bali
bombings.

Mr Blair told ministers that, if the people prepared to commit such acts were
prepared to try often enough, they would sometimes succeed.

A Downing Street spokesman explained that Mr Blair was saying that the threat
from global terrorism is very real and it cannot be predicted when or where it
will strike next.

The spokesman added: "He said that we hadn't heard the end of it and that, if
people try a sufficient number of times, then the likelihood is that, in some
instances, they were going to get through."

But the Prime Ministers comments immediately drew a sharp response from anti-war
campaigners opposed to the military emphasis of the "war on terror, "
particularly the Anglo-US obsession with invading Iraq.

Stop the War Coalition convener Lindsey German noted that the current bombings
in Bali have so far proved to have had no connection whatsoever with Iraq.

"We had been told that al-Qaida had disappeared completely following the war on
Afganistan - now it is back everywhere, " she said.

"If they persist in invading Iraq, we will see more of these dreadful
atrocities, as more people are driven into the hands of extremists."

A CND spokesman said:

"Despite its best efforts, the British government has failed to convince its
allies in Europe that a war on Iraq is justified.

"The government's dossier on Iraqi weapons of mass destruction is nothing but a
propaganda tool to justify an attack.

"Instead of pressing ahead with plans for a war, he should be convincing the US
government of the need for a full-scale peace conference on the Palestinian and
Israeli crisis."

A Green Party spokesman agreed: "I think Blair and Bush are trying to confuse
the public over what the real issues are so they can launch an attack on Iraq.

"The so-called 'war on terror' is really dodgy because it can be used as an
excuse anytime that Bush wants to bomb someone.

"The Bali bomb shows the opposite of what Blair is saying - by attacking Iraq,
you will generate more fanatics."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

GRAPHIC: RED-HANDED: Tony Blair and cabinet ministers during yesterday's
briefing

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Retail Week

                                October 18, 2002

International News - Courts staff in Bali lend support in aftermath of terrorist
bomb attack.

SECTION: Pg.6

LENGTH: 165 words


Staff employed by furniture retailer Courts helped with the rescue operation
following the terrorist bomb blast in Bali, Indonesia, on Saturday.

Around 200 people were killed when a car bomb ripped through the resort of Kuta,
popular with Western tourists.

Group chief executive Bruce Cohen said: "Many of our staff have been helping out
with the injured locally."

Courts has 13 stores in Bali. Cohen said they are trading normally. Although
most customers are locals, he conceded: "We will be affected if the tourist
economy is hit."

According to broker Numis Securities, Courts' Indonesian arm had profits of GBP
1 million last year. It said: "The potential of Indonesia is massive.

We would expect Courts to remain committed to the market."

Although Bali is Courts' main business area in Indonesia, the focus for future
openings is neighbouring Java.

Unless the situation deteriorates, Numis remains a strong buyer of Courts and
its forecasts remain unchanged.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                           Copyright 2002 Retail Week

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Sevenoaks Chronicle

                                October 18, 2002

Shock And Anger Follow Terrorist Attack In Bali

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 321 words


Residents have been rocked by the terrible act of terrorism in Bali. More than
180 people are feared dead and hundreds more were injured in the bomb blast but
so far there have been no reports of anyone from the area being involved. A
sense of sadness, reminiscent of the aftermath of September 11 has returned to
the area since the car bomb at Kuta's Sari Club on Saturday.

In the wake of the atrocity, the Foreign Office is advising Britons not to
travel to Indonesia, and those already there to return.

Many people from the Malling district who had booked trips to the tropical
island this month are now staying at home.

Angel Travel, in Borough Green, had no clients in the country but B G Travel,
inWest Malling High Street, had customers ready to take off this month.

Manager Howard Handley said: "We had a group of four people due to fly out on
October 23.

"They still wanted to go but their travel company told them not to, saying 'If
you do it's on your own head'." He added: "It will affect our business because
it reminds people what the world is really like and it puts them off.

"Customers will start travelling again but it will just take a little time."
Meanwhile a former Sevenoaks Schoolboy has been left stunned by the bombing,
having spent many enjoyable hours socialising in the Sari Club during two trips
to Bali. Bradley Morrish told the Chronicle this week: "It was the most popular
bar/club on the island and a good, fun place full of young Australian, English,
Japanese and European tourists.

"It was most definitely a busy bar that was really friendly and everybody there
was out to have a good time." The 24-year-old added: "When I heard about the
bomb I was shocked and angered because the terrorists have attacked young
peoplejust enjoying themselves on holiday.

"I cannot understand why these horrible people target those who are not causing
anyone any harm."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Sevenoaks Chronicle

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 19, 2002

Sex attacker, 13, terrorised three victims

SECTION: Pg. 31

LENGTH: 150 words


A BOY of 13 who attacked three young women in their homes was sent to a sex
offenders' centre for three years yesterday.

The Old Bailey heard that the boy, one the youngest serial sex attackers and who
cannot be named for legal reasons, wore his school uniform as he followed his
victims through Lewisham, South London.

He forced his way into their homes and molested them.

They were a 23-year-old marketing executive and two schoolgirls of 15 and 16.
One girl was attacked twice.

Judge Graham Boal QC said: 'You put each of them through a horrible ordeal, the
effects of which may be long-lasting.' The boy admitted four charges of indecent
assault, but two charges of attempted rape and burglary, which he denied, were
dropped.

Peter Dahlsen, defending, said: 'His emotional development is seriously off
track.' The boy will receive specialist treatment at the centre.


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 19, 2002

OSAMA BIN LADEN IS POISED TO UNLEASH A TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: WAR ON TERROR

LENGTH: 45 words


    OSAMA bin Laden is poised to unleash a terror attack as big as September 11,
CIA chief George Tenet told US Congress.

    Intelligence shows al-Qa'ida cells are in an "execution phase" -showing
increased activity like in the run-up to the Twin Towers atrocity.


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                October 20, 2002

IT WAS ALWAYS GOING TO BE JUST A MATTER OF HOURS AFTER LAST SUNDAY'S TERRORIST
ATTACKS IN BALI, WHICH MURDERED SO MANY INNOCENT YOUNG PEOPLE OF ALL
NATIONALITIES, BUT ESPECIALLY AUSTRALIANS, BEFORE SOME MEDIA IDIOT SAVANT
CLAIMED THE ATROCITY WAS THE INEVITABLE CONSEQUENCE OF AUSTRALIA'S STAUNCH
SUPPORT FOR AMERICA SINCE 9/11.

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1329 words


It was always going to be just a matter of hours after last Sunday's terrorist
attacks in Bali, which murdered so many innocent young people of all
nationalities, but especially Australians, before some media idiot savant
claimed the atrocity was the inevitable consequence of Australia's staunch
support for America since 9/11. Nor was it any surprise that the first qualified
idiot to step forward, on cue, was none other than Robert Fisk of the
London-based Independent newspaper.

"Why were they Australians targeted?" he asked last Monday. "John Howard has
been among President Bush's toughest supporters. Australia lined up to join the
'war on terror' within 24 hours of the attacks on New York and Washington last
year. Australian Special Forces have been operating with American troops in the
Afghan mountains against Al-Qaeda. It's a fair bet that yesterday's savagery was
Al-Qaeda hitting back. The French have already paid a price for their initial
support for Mr Bush. The killing of 11 French submarine technicians in Karachi
has been followed by the suicide attack on the French oil tanker Limburg off the
coast of Yemen. Now, it seems, it is the turn of Australia."

The implications of the Fisk doctrine are clear: ally with those who are
fighting terrorism at your peril for you risk terrible retaliation. Just shut
up, keep your head down and do nothing that might upset anybody, especially
psychopathic Islamo-fascist murderers. If your aim is to cow free peoples and
democratic societies into fearful inaction in the face of evil, then Fisk is
right to argue that the attacks were the logical consequence of supporting
America. What the appeasers and apologists for Islamo-fascist terror do not want
you to know is that America's allies are not at risk because we support
President Bush; we are at risk because we are standing up to those who would
first destroy our way of life, then enslave us, as the Nazis tried 60 years ago.

There is not a shred of evidence to support the supposition that the terrorists
were out especially to punish Australians. The young westerners holidaying in
Bali live lifestyles and harbour free thoughts that are anathema to the
freedom-hating control freaks of Islamic fanaticism. The bombs were far more
likely an attack on the western way of life in general rather than Australians
in particular. As with 11 September, the aim was to destroy a symbol of western
freedom. Bali is in a third-world country but its tourist industry is symbolic
of western lifestyles, just like New York's twin towers, with the added
advantage that it was a very soft target, where the locals who would also be
murdered are Hindu, not Muslims.

Such are the calculations of the evil enemy we now confront in the war against
terror and the sooner we realise it the better. But Mr Fisk is only anxious to
identify, in neon lights, other potential targets: "Our Britain's support for
the United States - an infinitely closer alliance than any support from France -
makes Britain the most likely candidate for attack after the US. Then there are
the small, more vulnerable nations that give quiet assistance to the American
military: Belgium, which hosts Nato HQ; Canada, whose Special Forces have also
been operating in Afghanistan; Ireland, which allows US military aircraft to
refuel at Shannon."

Got that Osama, or whoever has replaced you at the head of Al-Qaeda? I'm pretty
sure Britain is already on your hit list. But you might have overlooked the
infidels in Belgium and even innocuous and neutral Ireland - they're helping
America too, even if they don't know it, and they're smaller and more
vulnerable. No doubt Al-Qaeda has duly noted Mr Fisk's wise counsel. It is at
times like these that the idiot savant becomes a danger to us all.

So it was a relief to turn last week to the wise words (in The Guardian, of all
places!) of Clive James, an Australian commentator and comedian who has made
Britain his home. He is hardly a fully paid-up member of the nasty
right-wing-bastards tendency; indeed, if anything, he is most at home among
London's fashionable chattering classes. So his words carry all the more weight
- and his target is also the shoddy thinking of The Independent. "On Monday
morning, The Independent carried an editorial headed: 'Unless there is more
justice in the world, Bali will be repeated'," he writes. "Towards the end of
the editorial, it was explained that the chief injustice was 'the failure of the
US to use its influence to secure a fair settlement between Israelis and
Palestinians.'

"I count the editor of The Independent as a friend," James continued, "so the
main reason I hesitate to say that he is out to lunch on this issue is that I
was out to dinner with him last night. But after hesitating, say it I must, and
add a sharper criticism: that his editorial writer sounds like an
unreconstructed Australian intellectual, one who can still believe, even after
his prepared text was charred in the nightclub, that the militant
fundamentalists are students of history.

"But surely the reverse is true: they are students of the opposite of history,
which is theocratic fanaticism. Especially, they are dedicated to knowing as
little as possible about the history of the conflict between the Israelis and
the Palestinians. A typical terrorist expert on the subject believes that Hitler
had the right idea, that The Protocols of the Elders of Zion is a true story,
and that the obliteration of the state of Israel is a religious requirement. In
furthering that end, the sufferings of the Palestinians are instrumental, and
thus better exacerbated than diminished.

"To the extent that they are concerned with the matter at all, the terrorists
epitomise the extremist pressure that had been so sadly effective in ensuring
the continued efforts of the Arab states to persuade the Palestinians against
accepting any settlement, no matter how good, that recognises Israel's right to
exist. But one is free to doubt by now - forced to doubt by now - that Palestine
is the main concern."

The idea that we cannot defeat Al-Qaeda and/or tackle Iraq until we have solved
the Israeli-Palestinian conflict permeates the fashionable drawing rooms of
Europe. But there is heavyweight support for Mr James's view that it is wrong.
Writing last month in the Wall Street Journal, Bernard Lewis, professor of Near
Eastern studies at Princeton and probably the foremost scholar of the Arab world
in the west, had this to say: "The conflict with Israel certainly receives
overwhelmingly major attention in the Arabic media, but since this is the only
specific grievance that may be publicly expressed in a region of numerous and
painful problems, that is hardly surprising.

"One may therefore wonder whether Middle Eastern governments would indeed wish
for a peace settlement, which would deprive them of this valuable safety valve,
leaving them to face the undeflected anger of their subjects, including those
who live under the rule of the Palestine authority. From the almost monotonous
regularity with which a series of promising peace processes have failed at the
moment when they seemed most likely to succeed, one may be driven to the
conclusion that they prefer to keep the conflict unresolved, but at a low level
- simmering not boiling, and usefully controllable."

Professor Lewis and Mr James have hit on a truth which most western commentators
ignore: of course we should continue to strive for an Israeli-Palestinian peace
but to make success a pre-condition of further action against Al-Qaeda or the
liberation of Iraq from Saddam Hussein is to show ignorance of the real forces
at work in the Middle East. Nor can we afford to wait: Saddam gets closer to
weapons of mass destruction by the year and the war against Al-Qaeda will be a
long one, especially when the terrorists can rely on the support and targeting
advice (unwitting, I'm sure) of the Fisks of the world.


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Sunday Business Group

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 21, 2002

Baby terror as firework thugs attack house;Mum drops three-week-old child in
fright after gang of 10 youths target her home

BYLINE: By Alexander Robertson

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 442 words


A TERRIFIED mum dropped her three-week-old baby in fear after teenage thugs
threw fireworks at her house.

The distraught

33-year-old woman from Castlemilk spent a night in hospital suffering from shock
- though her baby escaped serious injury.

A gang of around 10 youths were responsible for the attack which left the woman,
who does not want to be named, traumatised.

The attack is just one of the 29 firework-related incidents reported on average
every day to Strathclyde Police in the build-up to Bonfire Night.

Between September 16 and October 13, more than 800 incidents were recorded, with
34 people reported to the procurator-fiscal or Children's Panel.

People across Glasgow have been plagued by youngsters setting off fireworks,
even though November 5 is still more than a fortnight away.

Today police across Scotland launched a major anti-crime campaign which will
target fireworks misuse as well as other anti-social behaviour. It comes just
days after we told how a bonfire accident left Glasgow teenager Gary Hughes
scarred for life.

Strathclyde Police assistant chief constable Ricky Gray said of the Castlemilk
incident: "This irresponsible act could easily have had fatal consequences.

"It highlights how dangerous fireworks can be in the wrong hands or if not
handled with care. I'm concerned at the level of misuse we have experienced
already."

The latest stage of the Safer Scotland campaign, which will run until Christmas
Eve, will also target vandalism and under-age drinking.

Tayside Police assistant chief constable William Boyd, who is spearheading the
campaign, said: "This is about more than being visible.

"Youth issues have a high profile at the moment, but we should remember that
only a small percentage of young people cause trouble and they will be

targeted."

In Glasgow, police chiefs have pledged more officers will be put on the beat to
reassure the public the city is a safe place.

Community safety officers will also visit shops selling fireworks and go to
local schools to give safety advice.

Inspector William Caie, of the city centre community safety department, said:
"We care about the issues that are of most concern in the community because it
is our community too."

The Safer Scotland campaign will also target road safety, highlighting steps to
prepare cars for winter and tackling anti-social driving.

The initiative is the fourth Safer Scotland campaign following previous
crackdowns on violent crime, the Know the Score anti-drugs campaign and the
Crime Braker initiative which targeted criminals who travel the country by road
and rail.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CONCERN: Asst Chief Const Ricky Gray;TRAGIC: Gary's story

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 22, 2002, Tuesday

HOLIDAYS SLUMP IN WAKE OF US TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Tom Parry

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 180 words


THOUSANDS of British holidaymakers stayed away from their favourite destinations
this summer, a new survey has found.

Bookings to traditional hotspots plunged in the aftermath of the September 11
terror attacks.

Worst affected was the USA, with bookings from British tourists down 33 per cent
on the previous year.

Even Spain and Greece, the most popular countries for British tourists, received
fewer visitors than in 2001.

But the Association of British Travel Agents say the 10 per cent slump was no
surprise. Spokesman Sean Tipton said: "We expected a bad year and we've had a
bad year.

"All major tourism operators cut back on their capacity as a precaution. They
got it about right."

The survey, for holiday company First Choice, showed both Majorca and Ibiza
remained the top two holiday destinations for Brits, despite a nine per cent
fall in bookings.

Tipton added: "Confidence is slowly coming back to the industry.

"We expect the situation to return to normal by next year, unless there is a
repeat of last year's horrific events."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 22, 2002

Fewer fly abroad than after US terror attacks

BYLINE: Victoria Fletcher

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 222 words


THE number of people jetting abroad on winter holidays this year is lower than
following the 11 September terrorist attacks, a new report reveals.

In the past 12 months, holiday companies have seen their bookings slump as
travellers wait until the last moment to book their getaways.

And there are fears that many customers will now be deterred from travelling
because of the bombing in Bali and fears over a war with Iraq.

Figures from independent analysts AC Nielsen show that Tenerife, Costa Blanca
and Lanzarote are still the most popular destinations for this winter.

But the number of bookings to these resorts has dropped by up to 29 per cent
compared to October last year - a month after the terrorist attacks on America.
The holiday industry said it believed that bookings would pick up. A spokeswoman
for First Choice Holidays said that customers were simply waiting for
last-minute deals.

"We are not that worried about these figures. People have just changed when they
book and are waiting for last-minute deals more than they ever have before," she
said.

However, news of the drop in bookings is bound to cause concern in an industry
which is struggling to recover after 11 September. The latest summer season saw
up to 33 per cent fewer bookings than summer 2001, despite price cuts.


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          October 23, 2002, Wednesday

GLOBAL WAR TO STOP THREAT OF CYBER TERRORISTS The terrorist attacks on September
11 have led to a crackdown on hackers

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 315 words


The crackdown on hackers and so-called cyber terrorists started in earnest
several years ago, but intensified after the terrorist attacks of September 11
last year.

The security risk posed by hackers was already well-documented, as was the
criminal activity of a few culprits.

But the war on terrorism launched by US President George Bush more than 12
months ago has added a new dimension to the attempts to identify and prosecute
hackers.

After terrorists attacked New York and Washington, Britain was put on full alert
for similar atrocities. It was also warned that it could be subject to an
electronic attack by terrorist groups, some of which have links with the al
-Qaida network.

Such cyber terrorism could paralyse public services and cause what officials
describe as significant damage. The UK now has the National Infrastructure
Security Coordination Centre, which is overseeing the battle against cyber
terrorism with support from the intelligence services and GCHQ.

It issues official alerts about potential security risks and threats to
particular sites, which rose to 34 last year compared with only seven in the
previous 12 months.

Programmers on both sides of the Atlantic now track, monitor and alter codes in
a bid to patch up vulnerable and sometimes besieged networks. Few details have
emerged about the technology being used, known in some quarters as Magic
Lantern, that enables security agencies to record keyboard data and view files.

It is the stuff of Hollywood and the fact that few details exist and officials
refuse to discuss the way in which they are trying to combat cyber terrorism is
adding to the intrigue and fuelling the speculation.

But hackers warn they are becoming increasingly infuriated by attempts to track
their activities and prosecute them, claiming they are prepared to step up their
hacking capabilities.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          October 23, 2002, Wednesday

MUM, CHILD FLEE INFERNO;
 TERROR IN FIRE ATTACK

BYLINE: Alison Dayani THEFT VICTIMS: Firefighters David Anderson (right) and
Paul; Bainbridge, whose cars were broken into at Fallings park fire station
today. Picture: Tim Easthope; GREEN GODDESS FEARS: PAGES 8 AND 9

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 242 words


ARSONISTS sparked a fierce blaze at a Black Country house today as a mother and
daughter slept. The terrified woman woke to smell smoke at the house in
Chillington Place, Bilston, ventured downstairs to investigate, and was faced
with a roaring blaze in the kitchen.

She dashed to rescue her fouryear-old daughter and fled to a neighbour's house
at 1.59am.

Firefighters arrived as flames tore through the ground and first floor of the
two-storey semidetached house.

Fire investigators and police launched an inquiry into the blaze and were
treating it as arson.

The mother and daughter escaped injury and were today being rehoused because of
the damage to their home.

Sub officer Tony Barnett, of Bilston fire station, said the pair had a lucky
escape.

'The mother and little girl were sleeping, so it's just lucky that the woman
woke up and heard something and they managed to get out.

'The fire was very severe. We are treating the blaze as suspicious and we know
it started inside the house in the kitchen - but how and by whom are still under
investigation.'

A couple had a lucky escape after yobs pushed a lit firework through the
letterbox of their third-floor flat in 14-storey Fairview Court, Western Avenue,
Willenhall, at 10.30 last night.

A fire chief today warned that with strike action by firefighters looming next
week similar 'mindless' arson attacks could end in tragedy - and a murder
charge.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 23, 2002

'We came to Bali to start a new life. Within days we were caught up in tragedy';

Life & Style: Luli Cordle left London to set up home with her husband in Bali.
Instead she found herself tending victims of the terrorist attack. She tells her
Emily Sheffield her story

BYLINE: Emily Sheffield

SECTION: Pg. 27;28

LENGTH: 1105 words


IN September 2001, my mother died of tuberculosis. It was six weeks before I was
due to get married. The wedding went ahead in November but her death changed my
priorities. At the time I was fashion editor at the Saturday Telegraph magazine
a job I loved. However, my husband, Charles, ran a furniture manufacturing
business in Bali, and he thought that for the company to flourish he needed to
be onsite. I felt that my husband should be my first priority, so I agreed to
move there with him. We knew that unless we gave it a go we would always be left
wondering, what if ?

I flew in on Wednesday 9 October, three days before the terrorist attacks. I was
thrilled to see Charles, delighted to be in Bali and over the moon about the new
puppy he'd bought me as a present. The builders were converting the house we had
bought on a previous visit, so we were staying with some British friends nearby.

They lived a few minutes' walk from Kuta beach, in the district of Seminyak only
half a mile from Paddy's bar, where one of the three bombs went off. On the
evening of 12 October we drove to the luxurious Amandari hotel to have a
romantic weekend. At 11.01pm the first telephone call came saying there had been
a small explosion at Paddy's bar in Kuta, which we thought must have been a gas
boiler or something. As many of the guests had teenage children in that area,
everyone started to make frantic mobile-phone calls to trace them.

Thankfully, no one's children had been hurt. The dinner finished immediately and
everyone headed home.

During the night, the casualty reports went from eight fatalities and 100
injured to 185 dead and more than 300 injured. The phone didn't stop ringing,
with friends from abroad checking we were alive, and local friends calling to
describe the streets awash with blood, limbs on the ground and hanging from
railings, and charred bodies in burnt out cars.

I told Charles: "I need to go down and help." I knew we could give blood if
nothing else. All the hotels in the vicinity had gathered sheets, towels and
food for the hospitals dealing with the blast. We volunteered to deliver some of
the supplies to the RSUP Sanglah hospital. There was total mayhem at the
entrance.

There were hundreds of foreigners and locals looking for friends and relatives;
camera crews filming indiscriminately; ambulances driving in and out, as well as
patients coming out of surgery on trolleys and stretchers.

All this was happening in the stifling local heat.

Inside, the hospital was like something out of a war film: there was no
air-conditioning, the beds were old and dirty, and the equipment archaic.

We bumped into a doctor friend of ours, who arrived with boxes of antibacterial
burn spray.

We were given rubber gloves and told to go round and spray any open wounds and
burns.

We had never seen such horrific injuries, and for the first few minutes we
thought we wouldn't be able to cope. However, our brains quickly became numb to
the horror as we knew we had to get on and help.

EACH patient had a volunteer by their bed who was fanning them, giving them sips
of water and general encouragement. Many of the volunteers had been there for 18
hours without any sleep; a number had been part of a touring rugby team which
had lost most of its players in the blast. Doctors were compiling lists of
people who were to be evacuated by the Australian air force. The hospital staff
had been too busy saving lives to do any cleaning so I donned gloves and went
around the ward filling plastic carrier bags with bloodied bandages, half-eaten
food and dirty syringes. I also killed or chased away hundreds of cockroaches.

Charles was tending an Australian man called Andrew who had just come out of
surgery. He'd had his left leg amputated at the knee, as well as losing all the
toes on his right foot. He was drifting in and out of consciousness. When he was
awake, he told Charles how his life had been saved by some people who had
dragged him out of the fire.

Despite his horrific injuries he kept his sense of humour, but he didn't want to
call his mother. Eventually, Charles called her. When he said that Andrew still
had his right leg, she responded: "Good, we have something to work with."

Seven hours later, at 2am on Monday morning, Charles went with Andrew in a
military ambulance to the airport and sat with him on the Tarmac for another
hour and half, until he could be loaded on to an aeroplane.

There were 36 other critical patients whose drips were being held up by a long
length of string.

Minor operations were being done on the Tarmac.

CHARLES helped load the victims on to the Hercules aircraft and said an
emotional goodbye to Andrew. He returned to the hospital to find me exhausted by
the bed of an unconscious man called Arron.

I was talking to a grandmother who was watching over her badly burnt daughter.
In the bed opposite was her almost unrecognisable granddaughter.

Her daughter's husband was still missing.

Most of that night I didn't cry, I just felt numb. My overriding memory is of
how calm everyone was in the face of such a calamity. Many of the doctors had
been operating for 24 hours.

At 3am I got a call from a friend called Sarah. Her brother Charlie was a member
of the Singapore Cricket Club, and had been in Paddy's when the bomb went off.
He was missing and she asked if we could help look for him. We checked the
hospital but couldn't find him.

We were then told he had been seen at 2.10pm on Sunday going into surgery and
was meant to have been evacuated to Darwin. We got home in the early hours where
I passed out from exhaustion.

The next day we looked for Charlie, checking with every source we could find.
There was no record of him having arrived in Darwin. We were then told he had
been evacuated to Singapore, but again, he couldn't be found.

Finally we were told he might be in Sydney. His parents arrived the following
day and we continued our efforts - but to no avail. They are now in Sydney,
still looking for their son.

We were due in Sri Lanka for a wedding the next week, and flew to Singapore on
Thursday night. It was only once I was out of Bali that the shock of what had
happened hit me: I was really scared. I had looked terrorism in the face.

For the moment, Charles and I are determined to stay living in Bali. We don't
want to give in to the terrorists - people didn't just quit New York.

Of course, if things get worse then we'll reconsider, but so far no one we know
has left Bali yet.

For the moment, we're just going to see what happens.


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CHARLES AND LULI, LEFT, ON THE DAY OF HER ARRIVAL IN BALI, AND ABOVE,
THREE DAYS LATER, PHOTOGRAPHED BY THE LOCAL PRESS WHILE HELPING TO TEND BOMB
VICTIMS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 23, 2002

Doctor warns of terror attack with smallpox .

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 352 words



A Hinchley Wood medical specialist this week called for all GP's to be
vaccinated in case of bio-terrorist attacks.

Dr Harvey Gordon, a former consultant in communicable disease control for East
Surrey Health Authority is one of the few doctors to have had first hand
experience in dealing with smallpox cases after dealing with an outbreak in
London in 1967.

Dr Gordon who now works as a GP also warned that medical staff are not
adequately trained in how to recognise symptoms and how to deal with the
condition.

In a letter, he said: "There are very few NHS staff with experience of
controlling and treating smallpox cases. As a deputy medical officer of health,
I was involved in controlling a smallpox outbreak in south London.

"The amount of work that even one creates is huge and three or four cases, as
might be expected were there terrorist activity, would generate enormous demands
in the initial stages.

"If the Department of Health considers there is a real risk of smallpox
bio-terrorism, then GP's should be offered vaccinations now and a training
programme in its identification be started immediately.

"Contingency plans for smallpox bio-terrorism need to be very carefully thought
through."

However, other GP's in the borough disagree. One Walton GP who did not wish to
be named said: "Its all scaremongering really. The likelihood of a smallpox
attack is quite remote at this stage.

"There is more chance of people being endangered by illnesses such as flu than
smallpox. If the current political situation changes, and the smallpox risk
becomes a more serious threat, then we would take all precautions necessary, but
at this stage, it seems unlikely."

A spokesman for the Department of Health said it had no plans to start a
vaccination programme but may consider it in the future. She said: "There is a
proposal to vaccinate some frontline healthcare staff but it is still in the
proposal stage. The risk assessment for possible attacks has not changed and we
are looking at contingency planning but no decision has been taken yet."

October 23, 2002 12:00

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 23, 2002

Doctor warns of smallpox terrorist attack .

SECTION: Health

LENGTH: 352 words



A Hinchley Wood medical specialist this week called for all GP's to be
vaccinated in case of bio-terrorist attacks.

Dr Harvey Gordon, a former consultant in communicable disease control for East
Surrey Health Authority is one of the few doctors to have had first hand
experience in dealing with smallpox cases after dealing with an outbreak in
London in 1967.

Dr Gordon who now works as a GP also warned that medical staff are not
adequately trained in how to recognise symptoms and how to deal with the
condition.

In a letter, he said: "There are very few NHS staff with experience of
controlling and treating smallpox cases. As a deputy medical officer of health,
I was involved in controlling a smallpox outbreak in south London.

"The amount of work that even one creates is huge and three or four cases, as
might be expected were there terrorist activity, would generate enormous demands
in the initial stages.

"If the Department of Health considers there is a real risk of smallpox
bio-terrorism, then GP's should be offered vaccinations now and a training
programme in its identification be started immediately.

"Contingency plans for smallpox bio-terrorism need to be very carefully thought
through."

However, other GP's in the borough disagree. One Walton GP who did not wish to
be named said: "Its all scaremongering really. The likelihood of a smallpox
attack is quite remote at this stage.

"There is more chance of people being endangered by illnesses such as flu than
smallpox. If the current political situation changes, and the smallpox risk
becomes a more serious threat, then we would take all precautions necessary, but
at this stage, it seems unlikely."

A spokesman for the Department of Health said it had no plans to start a
vaccination programme but may consider it in the future. She said: "There is a
proposal to vaccinate some frontline healthcare staff but it is still in the
proposal stage. The risk assessment for possible attacks has not changed and we
are looking at contingency planning but no decision has been taken yet."

October 23, 2002 14:00

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Wigan Evening Post

                                October 24, 2002

House attack terror

SOURCE: Wigan Evening Post

LENGTH: 310 words


A mother and her toddler child screamed in terror as two men tried to smash
their way into her Wigan home and threatened to kill them.

The pair had already attacked their 21-year-old victim's car and then set about
trying to get into the house on Cypress Road, Norley Hall, armed with a baseball
bat and knife, while screaming death threats.

But they were forced to flee when the woman, who is believed to have been
accompanied both by her young child and her boyfriend, called for the police.

The silver Ford Mondeo suffered a shattered windscreen, two broken side windows,
the wing mirror was smashed off and the car radio ripped out.

The bat was then used to smash the front room's double-glazed window before the
men tried to batter down the front door.

A neighbour, who did not wish to be identified, said she was woken by a loud
bang just before midnight on Tuesday evening.

She added: I could see these two lads who had pulled up outside the lady's house
in a car. One had a baseball bat and the other had a knife behind his back. They
just started smashing everything up. I know the lady has at least one child and
I could hear it screaming inside the house, the poor thing. It was very
frightening.

Fortunately the police arrived pretty quickly. The lady has only been living in
the house for a week or two. This has been a quiet street up until now.

The occupants of the house declined to comment.

Police say two men have since been arrested and were due to be interviewed
regarding offences of criminal damage and issuing threats to kill.

But they are still appealing for witnesses. Chief Insp Ian Doherty said: We
understand the men responsible arrived in a white Vauxhall Astra at about
11.50pm on Tuesday night and then set about causing a lot of damage to the
victim's car before attempting to get into her house.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 25, 2002

Tourists warned of Thailand bomb risk: Foreign Office issues new advice but
plays down Danish claim that terrorists may be planning an attack on resorts

BYLINE: John Aglionby, South-east Asia correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 751 words


The Danish government said yesterday that that it had intelligence of a credible
terrorist threat to the Thai resort of Phuket as a follow-up to the October 12
bombings in Bali, which killed almost 200 people.

Its warning cited in particular Patong beach, a popular destination for British
and foreign tourists. But Thailand rejected the report and the British Foreign
Office said it had not received such specific information.

Yesterday afternoon the FO travel advice for Thailand did not even mention
resorts as potential targets.

The Danish ambassador to Thailand, Ulrik Helweg-Larsen, said his government had
"received information that terror attacks against tourist areas in Thailand
might be under preparation".

"Localities like Phuket, including Patong beach (in Phuket), might be among the
potential targets," he said.

The Thai defence minister, General Thammarak Isarangura na Ayuthaya, said there
were no such indications of an impending attack.

"The intelligence and security agencies have been monitoring closely the reports
and suspicious figures, but so far there is no sign that terrorists have entered
Thailand," he said.

Since the Bali bombing the Thai security forces have noticeably increased their
anti- terrorist measures: the Thai economy relies heavily on tourists.

In London, the Foreign Office said last night it had issued new travel advice
for Thailand on October 18 saying that the threat had "increased significantly".

It urged Britons to "exercise extreme caution in public places, especially night
clubs, entertainment and places of worship". But a spokeswoman said the advice
did not refer to any specific locations.

She said Britain was discussing with the Danes the reasons why they had issued
more specific advice.

The Thai media say that many European tour operators have switched holiday
bookings from Bali to Thailand, particularly Phuket.

Hundreds of thousands of Britons visit Thailand every year, particularly the two
most popular resorts, Phuket and Pattaya. The high season is November to
January.

The Indonesian police, meanwhile, have arrested two Muslim farmers in connection
with the bombing of the Philippine consulate in Manado, northern Sulawesi,
several hours before the Bali blasts.

An Indonesian police report leaked in the Philippines said that detectives found
traces of "a black powder compound" on the clothing and fingernails of one of
the suspects identical to the explosives used in the consulate bomb.

The attack caused no injuries.

Philippine officers said that Indonesia believed the men were pawns and that the
attack on the consulate was "planned, coordinated and orchestrated by extremist
Islamic organisations in central Java".

The Indonesian commanding the Bali investigation, Major-General Made Pastika,
confirmed the arrests but said: "So far we have not found any link between the
Manado blast and the Bali bombings."

In central Java the police have detained the alleged founder and spiritual
leader of Jemaah Islamiyah, Abu Bakar Ba'aysir, on suspicion of being behind a
series of church bombings on Christmas Eve 2000. They have yet to question him,
however, because he collapsed on Friday and is in hospital.

Yesterday doctors could not say when the might be fit enough to be interrogated.

The security forces have yet to formally link him to either the Bali bombs or
the Manado blast, although Jemaah Islamiyah is suspected of being behind both.

Banks in Britain were ordered to freeze accounts belonging to Jemaah Islamiyah
yesterday. "Jemaah Islamiyah engages in terrorism," the chancellor, Gordon
Brown, said.

"Its aim is to establish an extensive fundamentalist republic covering Malaysia,
Singa pore and parts of the Philippines, and it is prepared to bomb, shoot and
kill to achieve that end. By freezing its assets we will undermine its future
operations."

Jakarta said it would not take similar action because it did not believe that
Jemaah Islamiyah had any cells in the country. "We have no evidence of Jemaah
Islamiyah operating here," the chief security minister, Susilo Bambang Yud
hoyono, said. "If that changes then we will act."

*Two people were slightly hurt in a small explosion in a shopping mall in
Bandung, 125 miles south-east of Jakarta. The police said the bomb seemed
intended to frighten. The device, wrapped like a gift, blew up as a janitor
tried to move it.

Special report on Indonesia guardian.co.uk/indonesia


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 25, 2002

Responding to terror;Democracies can't fight attacks with brute force alone

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 482 words


EVENTS in Russia, and lately in the US and in Indonesia, lend support to the
theory that there are no more superpowers, only superterrorists. Individuals and
small groups, armed with a little technology and a lot of hate, are proving
themselves time and again to be capable of wreaking mayhem and fear
disproportionate to their actual numbers. There is barely time to draw breath
after one atrocity, it seems, than another takes place. Citizens are left
besieged and bewildered by terror. It is little consolation that their
governments feel the same. From Jakarta to Moscow to Washington DC and London,
war on terror has been declared. The enemy now has a name, of sorts. It has an
aim, of sorts. What the world does not have is any clear idea of how to defeat
it.

All that is known so far is what does not work. Chechnya, for one, shows that
adopting massive force against terrorists offers no guarantee that they will be
crushed. Similarly, changing regimes does not necessarily change hearts and
minds. Russia has been trying to defeat the Chechen separatists since 1994. To
that end, parts of the region have been bombed back to the stone age, hundreds
of thousands of Chechens have died, and countless young Russian troops have
perished. Yet lawlessness continued to reign, despite the efforts of a puppet
civilian administration installed by the Kremlin. A success of sorts could be
claimed by Vladimir Putin, the Russian president, in this, his own war on
terror. In keeping the conflict out of Russian sights he kept it out of Russian
minds, convincing the population that terror could be contained. That perilous
complacency has now been shattered. Mr Putin may have believed that taking the
war to the Chechens, at whatever cost in lives and human rights, would shatter
their resolve. Tragically, he appears only to have made it stronger.

Choosing conflict and neglecting any attempt at forging a peaceful settlement
has cost Russia, and the Chechens, dearly. September 11 hardened Mr Putin's
resolve and confirmed his belief that there is an international terrorist arc
stretching from Asia to the Middle East. George W Bush might question this
geographical range but he, and other leaders, are lining up to stand shoulder to
shoulder with each other in the same war. This loose alliance is a fragile one,
as can be seen with differences over Iraq, but it has the potential, if handled
correctly through the United Nations, to be effective. Terrorism is an
international menace which requires an international response. That response has
to be flexible, mixing intelligence and diplomacy with international law and the
judicious use of might to enforce that law. Democratic states cannot fight
terror with brute force alone. It does not work, as Chechnya proves; it does not
last, as Afghanistan shows; and the effort, ultimately, dehumanises and imperils
us all.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            October 27, 2002, Sunday

MAN SHOT IN TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 44 words


A MAN was recovering in hospital yesterday after he was blasted in the leg
during a paramilitary-style assault in Antrim.

The 33-year-old was shot in the right knee after he was attacked by up to three
men near the Parkhall shopping centre in the town.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 27, 2002, Sunday

Kuwait shuts border area as US troops prepare for war Bedouin moved from
5,000-square mile zone over fears of terrorist attack

BYLINE: BY JACK FAIRWEATHER in Kuwait

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 377 words

A LARGE AREA of northern Kuwait is to become a "military zone" in response to
security fears expressed by United States forces, Kuwait's defence ministry
announced yesterday.

"For safety reasons we have decided to clear the area of all non-military
personnel. Evacuation measures are being put in place today," Brig-Gen Ahmed
Rahmani said. While the security of US forces in the region is cited as a prime
reason for the creation of the zone, it will provide troops with a closed arena,
away from public scrutiny to begin exercises prior to an invasion of Iraq.

Joint US and Kuwaiti exercises are planned for this winter, and next month a
British armoured division of up to 20,000 men is expected to arrive.

"No one will know just how many troops will be operating there, but the build-up
to war can now really begin," said a Kuwaiti security official. The area, which
runs parallel to the demilitarised zone that separates Kuwait and Iraq, covers
more than 5,000 square miles and stretches from the Gulf to the border with
Saudi Arabia.

It is home to hundreds of farmers and Bedouin tribesmen, and is a popular
tourist destination in the winter months.

A spokesman for the Kuwaiti ministry of defence said: "The Americans have a
problem with security and so we have to get people out, for both the public's
and the American's safety. We understand the distress this will cause, but we
don't want anybody getting shot by mistake, especially during the winter season
when many Kuwaitis visit the area."

The announcement reflects the dangerous situation that has arisen for the US
forces based in Kuwait as they wait for a decision on military against Iraq.
Earlier this month two suspected al-Qaeda gunmen launched a suicide attack
against US troops on Failaka island, killing one marine and wounding another.

Two further shooting incidents aimed at US soldiers took place within the next
two weeks without injury.

Camp Doha, the American base in Kuwait where more than 10,000 troops are housed,
has received numerous suicide bomber threats. "This is an uncertain and worrying
time for US forces," said a spokesman at the US embassy. The presence of so many
US troops is proving deeply unpopular with Kuwaitis.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 28, 2002

Pacific Rim leaders agree new measures to combat terror attacks;

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 226 words


PACIFIC Rim leaders agreed at the weekend to a range of new policies aimed at
preventing terrorist attacks.

The annual summit in the Mexican resort of Cabo San Lucas proposed wide-reaching
security reforms for the transport of goods, as well as a crackdown on money
laundering.

Trillions of pounds worth of trade is exchanged by sea around the Pacific.

The leaders agreed to strengthen the procedures for pre-checking cargo
containers to make sure that they are not being used by terrorist groups.

Also on the list of agreements was a commitment to tighten up the monitoring of
remittances sent across the region by overseas workers and the flow of funds
through charitable institutions.

Both are seen as key areas of funding for militant groups across the world.

Further counter-terrorism policies were being hammered out ahead of last night's
final summit declaration.

These included ambitious plans to standardise customs procedures across the
region within the next three years.

Concern over terror attacks by extremist groups has dominated a conference that
usually focuses on economic issues such as reducing trade barriers and fighting
corruption.

Security matters also took centre stage during bilateral talks between United
States President George W Bush and his Indonesian counterpart Megawati
Sukarnoputri.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 30, 2002

BRICK ATTACK RAPIST TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 310 words


A RAPIST serving life attacked a woman college lecturer within minutes of
escaping while on a day-release shopping trip.

Neil Trennan, 38, battered Sally RustAndrews around the head with a half-brick
after pouncing on her in a ladies' toilet at her college.

He fled after her screams alerted other staff and students but was spotted
running away by security staff monitoring CCTV cameras and arrested by police an
hour later.

The attack on creative arts lecturer Ms RustAndrews was chillingly similar to
his other offences, a court heard.

Trennan was jailed for life in 1991 for raping a woman in Sheffield after
knocking her out with a weight-lifting dumbbell.

He also had previous convictions for indecently assaulting a woman he battered
with a half-brick and another he grabbed in a ladies' toilet.

Trennan was given a second life sentence at Norwich Crown Court after he
admitted escaping from custody and causing GBH with intent.

Ms Rust-Andrews, who needed eight stitches for head injuries after the attack at
Norwich City College, choked back tears as she heard details of his previous
convictions.

Trennan was allowed out shopping with a prison officer on June 28 this year
while being held in Wayland Prison, Norfolk.

But he ran off and sneaked into Norwich City College through a rear entrance,
said prosecutor Richard Potts.

Ms Rust-Andrews saw him enter the ladies' toilet and thought he was a member of
staff as he was checking cubicles.

"She became alarmed when he suddenly came up to her, looking at her straight in
the eyes, and then reached inside a carrier bag and hit her on the back of the
head twice, " said Mr Potts.

"She screamed out loud.

That scream caused the attack to come to a halt and the defendant ran off.

"He dropped the weapon which turned out to be half a house brick."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 Express Newspapers

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                October 30, 2002

Dog terrors: Woman campaigner attacked

BYLINE: Ciaran Fagan

SECTION: News; People; Issues; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 362 words


Carol Capenhurst was attacked by a black and white mongrel just three weeks
after she said how action was needed against dangerous dogs in Beaumont Leys.
The attack also happened within weeks of letters being sent to 250 pet owners on
the estate, warning them of the penalties they could face if they allow their
dogs to roam free.

Ms Capenhurst, 55, whose eight-year-old Persian cat, Cherry was torn apart and
killed by another dog recently, said: "I saw this dog attacking an elderly man
but then it turned and chased my dog, Grem, who ran for his life.

"Then it turned again and attacked me - it shredded my coat and bit my arms and
legs, it was terrifying. If I'd been a young child, I'm sure I would have been
ripped to bits.

"The owner was there all the time but I think she was scared too and she wasn't
able to get the dog under control." Ms Capenhurst called police and has also
reported the attack to Leicester City Council's dog wardens team.

She received treatment at Leicester Royal Infirmary for her injuries.

Police have visited the owner at home and warned her to keep her pet under
control.

Ms Capenhurst has told officers she does not want to make an official complaint
that could lead to court proceedings.

A Leicestershire police spokeswoman said: "She has told us that she wanted the
owner to be warned about the dog's behaviour and this has been done." Wardens
will visit the owner to underline the police message and to establish whether
the dog is a danger to the public.

The city council wrote to 250 council tenants who own dogs on the estate to warn
them their conditions of tenancy require them to keep all pets under control.
Persistent failure to stick to the rules could, in the most extreme cases, lead
to eviction.

John Buswell, chairman of the Beaumont Leys Tenants' Association, said his own
dog, Walter, had been attacked three times in the past few months.

Mr Buswell said: "I hope that this was just a one-off. Since we sent those
letters to people, things seem to be improving up here." Owners who need advice
about controlling an unruly dog can contact wardens on 0116 252 6339.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2002 Leicester Mercury

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            November 1, 2002, Friday

I THOUGHT I WOULD DIE;
 MAN AGED 70 IN STRAY DOG ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Mark Cowan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 310 words


AN elderly man savaged by two stray dogs in a quiet Birmingham street said
today: 'I thought I was going to die.'

Abdul Malik, aged 70, was mauled by the ferocious dogs who pounced on him from
behind as he was walking along Stamford Road, Handsworth, yesterday. He suffered
severe bites to his lower legs and was today recovering in City Hospital with
his family at his bedside.

His 33-year-old son Shehzad Khaliq said his father was lucky to be alive. 'He
was screaming for help and trying to fight them off him,' said Mr Khaliq. 'They
were going for his upper body. He said he thought they were going to kill him.
'Luckily, a neighbour heard his screams and came running over with a spanner and
the dogs ran off.

'I lifted his trousers up and you could see he had really deep teeth marks and
blood all over his legs. It was oozing out of his wounds.'

Paramedics set up a drip and treated Mr Malik at the scene before taking him to
City Hospital. He was later taken into theatre to have his wounds cleaned.

The dogs, a Staffs bull cross and a boxer cross, had earlier been spotted
roaming around the area.

Mohammed Ahsan, aged 42, told how he had to jump into the back of a woman's car,
parked outside a shop, to escape them.

'It was the only way to get away from them, I was so worried,' he added.

As police searched the area for the dogs, city council wardens were called out.
Both animals were later captured and taken to the city dogs home. A decision was
due to be taken on their future today.

West Midlands Ambulance Service spokesman Steve Evans said: 'We have treated a
number of these incidents over the past 12 months and they have all been severe
in their own way.

'For a gentleman of his age, the amount of shock, blood loss and tissue damage
sustained in this type of attack could be quite horrendous.'

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 2, 2002, Saturday

TERROR OF DOG ATTACK

BYLINE: Mark Cowan PAIN: Abdul Khaliq in hospital today. Picture: Loretta
Brennan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 197 words


A GRANDFATHER today told of his terror after he was savaged by two stray dogs
just yards from his home.

Abdul Khaliq, aged 72, said he thought he was going to die as the two dogs
mauled his legs in the horrific attack at Handsworth.

And today he said he broke down in tears after the Staffordshire bull terrier
cross and boxer cross tore at his flesh. 'I have never cried in my life, I don't
cry, but I was crying then, it was so painful,' he said.

'They just grabbed at my legs and pulled me to the ground. I thought they would
finish me off.

'They tried to bite my face and I just put my hands up to push them back.

Mr Khaliq added: 'They bit chunks out of my legs - I have never seen so much
blood.'

Surgeons at City Hospital yesterday operated on Mr Khaliq in a bid to clean his
wounds and repair the damaged tissue.

Mr Khaliq said he had been told not to walk or put any weight on his legs while
his injuries heal.

The animals were captured shortly after the incident in Stamford Road at 12.30pm
on Thursday.

They were taken to Birmingham Dogs Home and their fate was hanging in the
balance today as police tried to trace their owners.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                November 2, 2002

RD&E tests its ability to deal with terrorist attack

BYLINE: A. NDREW MOSLEY

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 330 words


Emergency measures to deal with possible major terrorist incidents have been put
to the test at the Royal Devon & Exeter Hospital.  Staff at the RD&E were called
out to deal with a fictitious air crash at Exeter Airport.

The scenario, which involved 30 casualties, was the first time such a practice
had taken place within normal working hours.

The plan aimed to ensure it had minimal impact on the running of hospital
services.

And RD&E director of services Elaine Hobson said staff dealt with the situation
admirably.

"Part of the testing is to look at the availability of staff, and generally
there was a very good response, with staff arriving at the right place at the
right time.

"Within the limitations we had it was generally agreed that the plans worked
well.

"An action plan has been developed as a result of debriefing and observation
during the practice," she said.

The RD&E Trust board holds on-going meetings to continually evolve its major
incident plan, which is designed to deal with any emergency ranging from coach
or plane crashes, to things like chemical or biological attacks.

Post-September 11 the plan has been evolved, with regular discussions and
liaison with the police, ambulance and fire services taking place.

The plan involves co-ordination between the services and staff at the hospital
being fully briefed as to exactly what they should do, who they should call and
in what order in the event of an emergency.

Recently, Westcountry doctors called on the Department of Health to increase the
stocks of vaccines to be used in case of biological terrorist attacks.

Talks have been held by emergency services throughout the country since the
Commons Defence Committee criticised the Government's response to the attacks on
the World Trade Centre and Pentagon.

The committee said fire and ambulance crews lacked the equipment and training to
cope with a chemical, biological or nuclear attack.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                November 5, 2002

Computer Expert'S Axe-Attack Terror

BYLINE: Andrew Black

SECTION: News; Courts; HighCourt; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 508 words


An ABERDEEN man who became convinced his computer was being hacked into by the
IT expert who installed it, attacked him with a tomahawk axe.  John Evans, 25,
was taken to hospital covered in blood with a 2cm skull fracture and a suspected
broken knee, following the vicious assault at the home of his attacker, John
Wilson, earlier this year.

And following the attack, Wilson, 36, of 201 King Street, called for an
ambulance before confessing all to the police, the High Court in Inverness heard
yesterday.

Advocate Depute Iain Armstrong, QC, prosecuting, told the court that Mr Evans,
who at the time of the assault was working as a support analyst for an
Aberdeen-based oil company, was a friend of Wilson's brother and agreed to
install a computer system for the two in the summer of 2000.

"The complainer had an interest in computers and had done work for the accused
and his brother in relation to the computers which they had," said Mr Armstrong.

"On January 11, the complainer received a telephone call from the accused asking
him to visit him at his home because he was receiving a message on the screen
indicating there was something wrong with the computer.

"The complainer was sitting facing the monitor and it was clear to him that the
accused was becoming agitated and made the allegation that the problems with his
computer had started ever since the complainer had worked on it for him.

Wilson said that the computer had a virus and that it was the complainer who was
responsible for the virus entering the system.

"At that point the complainer was sitting in front of the computer and the
accused was standing behind him.

"Then the complainer was struck on the back. After the first blow there was a
second blow to the head which caused him to fall on to a bed which was nearby.

"He was holding the axe in one hand and with the other he was punching the
complainer on the head and body." Throughout the attack, Wilson, a former
tradesman, continued to swear at and blame Mr Evans for what had gone wrong with
his computer.

Mr Armstrong continued: "It is the complainer's view that it may have been the
sight of the blood which caused him to do what he did next, which was to leave
the room and phone the emergency services. He then took the axe and put it
away." Mr Evans was taken to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary where scans revealed a
skull fracture. He was referred to the neuro- surgery department where he
underwent an operation.

Defending Wilson, advocate Colin Mackenzie acknowledged that both the crime and
the injuries caused were serious, but added that Mr Evans made a full recovery.

He said: "This offence was completely out of character and the accused appears
as a first offender." Wilson, who was originally charged with attempted murder,
pleaded guilty to an amended charge of causing severe injury to Mr Evans to the
danger of his life.

The case, before Lord Kirkwood, was adjourned until November 29 when Wilson will
appear at the High Court in Edinburgh for sentencing.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                November 5, 2002

Gardai involved in terror attack - informer

BYLINE: By Anita Guidera

LENGTH: 704 words


A BOMB attack in Strabane in July 1993 is just one of a series of terrorist
activities in which two members of the Garda Siochana have been implicated by a
former garda informer.

Letterkenny woman Adrienne McGlinchey implicated Superintendent Kevin Lennon and
Detective Garda Noel McMahon in a number of covert activities in which homemade
explosives and bomb-making equipment were found in seven locations in Co Donegal
and across the border between September 1993 and July 1994.

Ms McGlinchey made the allegations in a series of statements to the inquiry by
Assistant Garda Commissioner Kevin Carty which investigated the garda probe into
the death of Raphoe cattle dealer Richie Barron. The findings of that inquiry
were not made public.

In his opening statement yesterday to the Morris Tribunal into alleged garda
corruption in Donegal, Peter Charleton SC drew on material from the Carty
investigation.

Bizarre details also emerged for the first time of an incident which occurred in
1994 in which a Buncrana-based garda claimed that his colleague, Det Gda Noel
McMahon, cocked a loaded gun in his face and released the hammer at least twice
because of something he said.

McMahon, who has denied this claim, which is supported by two other garda
witnesses, was told by his superior Supt Kevin Lennon to put his gun away.

Both men, who are currently suspended from the force have vehemently denied all
allegations made against them.

On the opening day of the Morris Tribunal, details of the investigations
surrounding seven separate explosives finds were read into the record by Mr
Charleton, for the tribunal.

The tribunal's senior counsel pointed to a number of emerging patterns from the
previous garda investigations into the extraordinary allegations.

These included the recurrence of anonymous and hoax telephone calls, the making
of contradictory statements by key players, the disappearance of important garda
records and the absence of follow-up paper work in relation to a number of the
alleged bomb-making and arms finds.

In a series of dramatic and occasionally contradictory claims, Ms McGlinchey
alleged that Det Gda Noel McMahon had driven the van containing a 100lbs of
explosives into Strabane where it later exploded in front of the courthouse on
July 2, 1993.

She subsequently claimed that she had driven the van after assembling the
material for the explosives in her Buncrana home.

Ms McGlinchey made further allegations that a number of steel-like items had
been made by her on the instructions of Noel McMahon and that they had been
subsequently viewed and okayed by Supt Lennon.

These allegations were dismissed by Kevin Lennon as "total lies".

Ms McGlinchey was also linked to an ammunitions discovery in Strabane on
September 11, 1993, after she was seen behaving suspiciously in the area. The
information about the find was supplied to Det McMahon and Supt Lennon by
McGlinchey who was being managed by the pair, the tribunal has alleged.

The tribunal also heard reports of conspicuous activity at the flat of Ms
McGlinchey in October 1993 in which she threw what appeared to be white powder
from the window. On closer garda inspection, Ms McGlinchey and her flatmate,
Yvonne Devine, were attempting to dispose of what appeared to be explosive
substances.

There were no arrests and no search warrants were issued. Mr Charleton remarked
that given that activity, it was hard to reconcile why senior gardai in Donegal
had come to the conclusion that Ms McGlinchey was to be protected.

In relation to one explosives find in a vacant house at Ardchicken, near Donegal
town, Ms McGlinchey alleged that Det Gda McMahon "had her" purchasing and
grinding fertilizer in her flat, storing it in freezer bags and later planting
them in the vacant house.

The Morris Tribunal remains puzzled as to why there was no follow-up
investigation into this so-called find by Supt Lennon and Det Gda McMahon. Det
McMahon claims he had nothing to do with the fertilizer grinding operations
which Ms McGlinchey alleges were located in her flat using two coffee grinders
in rotation, so that the motors would not burn out.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           November 5, 2002, Tuesday

LETTER: NO NEED TO RELIVE HORROR OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Thomas Thorpe

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 384 words


Sir, - Even today, we hear information and see footage of the terrorist attacks
on the World Trade Center carried out on September 11 in New York. Although I
feel the victims of these attacks, and the firefighters who saved people's lives
are heroes, I also feel there can be too much media coverage of such a terrible
thing. As I read the newspapers, I nearly always find something relating to the
attacks. No, people shouldn't forget what happened, but they shouldn't re-live
it either, as relatives of the dead have been quoted as saying. I could accept
that on the day when these attacks happened, people needed to know what was
going on, so showing these terrible pictures of the World Trade Center on fire,
and people jumping out of the windows wasn't a bad thing, but now people know
just about everything that happened - why does the media continue to draw
people's attention to it?

I don't understand why people want to watch an hour-long TV programme showing
people in distress, and slow motion footage of the planes hitting the WTC. We
will never forget the first images we saw on TV the day the attacks happened,
why do we need to see it again? As I look at the front pages of some newspapers,
all I see is a big picture of the exact moment the plane made contact with the
first or second tower. Why do people crave such pictures?

Does anyone in the media think of the families and friends of the people lost in
the attacks? What do they want? Do these pictures upset them?

If I had lost a loved one in the attacks, I'm sure I wouldn't want to see
footage of people jumping out of windows, or the general chaos that was caused.
Does anyone want to see the exact moment when another life was lost? It's not
something I'd want, yet on the anniversary of September 11 there were several
programmes aired about these attacks.

Although the terrible events are never to be forgotten, we still need to move
forward and try to live our lives as much as possible.

Why do people call it 'September 11th', are we too scared to say what it was -
the terrorist attacks on America. What about people whose birthdays are on
September 11? Must their special date always be tarnished by such a terrible
event, just because people will not call it what it is?

THOMAS THORPE Dudley.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 5, 2002, Tuesday

YOBS IN TERROR ATTACK ON BUS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 184 words


A TERRIFIED bus driver battled to stay in control of a double-decker during a
'horrific' attack by a gang of rampaging youths.

The driver was left bleeding and shaken after being spat at and kicked and
punched by the six yobs who ran amok on the 126 bus travelling through the Black
Country at 7.15 last night. Minutes earlier, the teenagers had been involved in
a fight with other youths on the top deck and had stolen mobile phones from
them.

They turned on the courageous driver when he tried to stop them making a
getaway. He refused to stop the bus to let them escape but was besieged in his
cab as he continued along the main A4123 Wolverhampton Road.

A screen protecting the driver was almost ripped off and the youths rained blows
on the helpless victim, kicking and punching him in the face. They forced the
battered man to stop the bus and the attackers, who were black, jumped off and
fled with the mobiles.

The injured driver and three passengers needed hospital treatment.

Det Insp Alison Higgins said the incident at the junction with Newbury Lane, was
'shocking.'

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                November 5, 2002

The Boiler Room Hero Who Defied Kamikaze Terror Attacks In Fight To Stop Japan

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 876 words


For the Japanese pilots it was the 'divine wind', for Doug Abell, deep in the
bowels of the battleship King George V, it was one of the most terrible acts of
war - the kamikaze raiders.  As the suicide fliers sent their bomb-packed
Mitsubishi Zero planes into their final dive of death Doug could only grit his
teeth and keep the boilers burning. He knew he had no chance of getting out if
his ship was hit.

Those grim days of the Second World War have come alive again thanks to Doug and
fellow members of the ship's crew who together have produced a new book:
Memories of Life Aboard King George V.

Doug, from Bradley Valley, Newton Abbot, said: "We never knew when the ship was
hit. We were quite a number of decks below, and those were all armour-plated.

"What a lot of the kamikazes tried to do was go down the funnels, because they
went straight into the engine rooms.

"I never gave it a thought. We were doing a job and hoped for the best." Doug
worked as a stoker on the battleship from 1943 to 1947.

The KGV, as she was affectionally called by the crew, took part in the sinking
of the Bismarck and the invasions of Sicily and Italy. When Doug worked on her
she bombarded the Japanese mainland alongside the Americans.

In those days there was a high price for serving in the Royal Navy. During the
Second World War 1,525 vessels were lost and more than 50,000 British naval
personnel lost their lives.

Doug joined up when he was 17.

"We were living in London and being bombed left, right, and centre," he said.

"My brother was already away in the Army. My sister was called up and was in the
Women's Army.

"We just wanted to be part and parcel of the war service. In those days you
fought for your country. People were called up for national service but I didn't
wait for that.

"I wanted to be in the Royal Navy and the only way was to volunteer.

"I had friends who were already in the Navy. I just wanted to go to sea. I think
it's a wonderful experience for everybody. You can see something of the world.

"I volunteered with two mates of mine and we went to different places.

"And just a few months later I was in the thick of battle, stoking the boilers
deep in the bowels of the ship. I was stoker first class. We worked down below.

"It was a dirty and exhausting job, especially when we had to crawl inside the
boilers for descaling. We also had to clean the oil tanks. Air was pumped in to
us or we would have passed out.

"When you were inside the boilers it was not easy, but everybody on the ship had
to do a job. During battle the padre would occasionally give a small commentary
over the Tannoy, but no real details.

"I am afraid that if the ship had been hit, the engine room officers and stokers
would have had little chance of escape. It was not the best of jobs, but someone
had to keep the ship going." The King George V took part in airborne strikes
against enemy oil installations in Sumatra.

"We were delayed for three or four days because the weather was bad," Doug said.
"When we did the raid we got shoved around a bit by Japanese bombers.

"Wartime is not an enjoyable time, but you do what you have to do." Afterwards
the Japanese claimed the ship had been sunk in Sumatra.

"It was issued on the radio in England that the ship had been sunk," said Doug.
"It was propaganda, really. It was denied afterwards.

"Our parents didn't know where we were. Sometimes we were at sea for five
months." Later the battleship joined the American fleet.

"I've never seen so many ships in my life. It was a beautiful sight," said the
77-year-old pensioner, who moved to Devon when he retired.

"We were welcomed by the Yanks. They were friendly and very good to us. The best
of the lot were the Aussies. They really treated us well." The British Pacific
Fleet joined forces with the Americans in August 1945 to bombard the Japanese
mainland.

Their targets were industrial plants and infrastructure, and the airfields from
Hokkaido to Kyushu.

Although Japanese cities and production facilities were taking a hammering, the
country still was not beaten. An invasion was expected to result in millions of
casualties.

Doug, who later worked in accountancy as an assistant manager of NatWest's
overseas department, said: "Most of our raids were done on the Japanese
mainland. We used to do the day raids and the Americans the night raids.

"It was in the latter stages before the surrender.

"There was little resistance at this time, only from the shore bases. They
didn't have many ships left. Most of them had been sunk. When they dropped the
first atom bomb we were not far off. We were still at sea when the bomb was
dropped." The father of two and grandfather of two started going to reunions of
the ship's crew a few years ago.

"I've been going for five years now, but it was only through a friend of mine
that I found out about them," he said.

Doug explained: "I've still got my memories but sometimes it's difficult to
think back 60 years. This is why we produced this book with memories of the
people who were on board.

" I believed in King and Country and doing my bit. That's how we were brought up
in that day." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                                November 5, 2002

Terrorists Die In Us Attack

SECTION: News; Other; War; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 55 words


Six al Qaida suspects, including Osama bin Laden's top lieutenant in Yemen, were
killed when US forces fired a Hellfire missile on the suspects' car.  A US
official in Washington confirmed the strike at dawn yesterday, believed to have
been conducted by a CIA aircraft, possibly a missile-carrying Predator drone.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Gloucestershire Echo

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 5, 2002, Tuesday

YEMEN TERROR SUSPECTS KILLED IN CIA ATTACK

BYLINE: Andrew Buncombe In Washington Wreckage at the scene of the explosion in
Yemen

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 344 words


THE CIA killed a senior al-Qa'ida official and five associates in Yemen, using a
missile fired from an unmanned aircraft, it was revealed last night.

Qaed Salim Sunian al-Harethi, considered the most senior al-Qa'ida figure in the
country, had been travelling with his colleagues in a car when it was struck by
a US Hellfire missile. Sources in Washington said the missile was most likely
launched from a Predator drone, owned and operated by the agency.

"As I understand it, it was an agency drone," said one US official. The CIA and
the Pentagon refused to comment on the incident, which was earlier described as
a car explosion.

The attack, which took place on Sunday east of the capital Sana'a, is the first
time the US has attacked al-Qa'ida members outside Afghanistan.

The death of Mr al-Harethi represents a considerable success for the US. He is
believed to have been an associate of Osama bin Laden since the early 1990s and
is suspected of having been heavily involved in the October 2000 bombing of the
USS Cole in Aden, in which 17 US sailors were killed.

He is also thought to have been involved with the recent attack on a French oil
tanker off the Yemen coast.

The US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld referred yesterday to the increasingly
close co-operation taking place between America and Yemen.

At least three other senior al-Qa'ida figures are believed to be hiding in the
country - Shaykh Dabwan and Suwaid, described as al-Qa'ida planners, and a
communications expert known as Miqdad.

It emerged last month that the US has been using Predator drones to search for
al-Qa'ida members along Yemen's northern border. The drones have previously been
used to deadly effect: last November, Mohammed Atef, Bin Laden's military chief,
was killed near Kabul in a joint airstrike involving a Predator and US military
aircraft.

A Predator targeted the Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar at the start of the
war on Afghanistan, but military lawyers could not decide whether he could be
struck, officials have said.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                November 5, 2002

Terror attacks stunned Muslim world

SECTION: Features; General; Others; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 960 words


Moments after Maulana Saffi Ullah walked into his in-laws' house in Hyson Green,
United Airlines Flight 175 from Boston flew into the south tower of the World
Trade Centre in New York.  He stared at the television as the upper floors of
the blackened skyscraper were consumed by flames.

Catastrophe succeeded catastrophe that day - after being hit by airliners both
of the trade centre's towers crumbled, swiftly followed by trust and tolerance.
Saffi, 33, felt the same as everyone else - shock, horror, disbelief.

As a Muslim, he knew those two missiles with a human cargo had caused long-term
damage to relations in his own community.

"I was shocked. Everyone in the community was shocked. We couldn't believe what
was happening. It was like a movie. Then later I began to think about what it
would mean." Saffi is the imam - or religious leader - of the Karimia Institute
in Hyson Green.

At the mosque where he leads daily prayers, the main emotion after the terrorist
attacks was fear.

"Before September 11, the Muslim community in Nottingham was part of the
family," he said.

"People looked at us in the same way they looked at everyone else. After
September 11, the eyes changed. They looked at us as if we were aliens." By the
time Ramadan arrived, the West had joined the 'war on terror' in Afghanistan and
levels of anti-Muslim feeling had reached a new pitch.

"Me and my wife were in the car looking for somewhere. I stopped to ask a
passer-by for directions," said Saffi.

"When the lady saw us, and especially me, she ran away because she was so
scared." In Nottingham, Islamic leaders took part in public meetings with their
counterparts from other faiths to preach a message of tolerance.

But efforts to repair the damage have been hampered by attacks attributed to
'Islamic terrorists'.

"The term 'Islamic terrorists' is wrong," said Saffi.

"This is media language that's extremely damaging to the image of the Muslim
community.

"Terrorists are terrorists, whether they be Muslim, Christian, Jewish, Sikh or
any other religion. If he kills an innocent person, he is a terrorist without a
faith. Islam is totally against it.

"If I was a Christian and killed an innocent person, what would be the meaning
of that? Would the whole Christian community be responsible for my crime? When
have you ever heard the term 'Christian terrorist'?" The Qur'an's condemnation
of terrorism is unambiguous. Islam's holy book says whoever kills an innocent
person kills the whole of humanity.

Saffi's sympathies - and those of his fellow Muslims - embrace all the innocent
victims of terror, be they New Yorkers, Afghans, Palestinians, Israelis,
Balinese, British, Australian and Kashmiris - the long list goes on.

He believes that the image problem faced by Muslims is a result of ignorance,
the very thing he has battled against in his own community.

Saffi studied Arabic and Islamic Studies for nine years in Pakistan, completing
his education at Dar-ul-aloom Muhammadia Ghousia in Bhera in 1995.

He studied at Al-Azhari, the famous Islamic university founded by Pir Mohammad
Karam Shah.

He met his wife - who is British - when she visited Pakistan in 1997 and the two
married and settled in Aspley.

He worshipped at the mosque in Berridge Road before being selected as imam in
1998.

"I wanted to serve the community - and not just the Muslim community," he said,
"I truly and strongly believe that Islamic values are for everyone, not just a
particular generation, culture or race.

"Islam means peace. If I don't know my religion, how can I tell others?" Saffi
is also assistant director of the institute, which was founded 12 years ago to
promote education and spiritual development.

The institute is now based at Bobbers Mill Community Centre, but Saffi spends
most of his time at the organisation's original base in Berridge Road.

It runs a broad range of classes for more than 1,000 people, embracing
everything from Islamic Studies to Urdu to radio broadcasting.

As well as leading prayers, counselling and teaching, Saffi helps present
programmes on Radio Faza (which means 'fresh air') on 97.1FM.

The station, which was granted a one-year licence in March under the Access
Radio scheme set up by the Government, is a joint project run by the Karimia
Institute and the Asian Women's Project.

It is based at Bobbers Mill Community Centre and broadcasts shows in a variety
of languages including English, Gujarati, Urdu, Punjabi, Mirpuri, Bengali and
Arabic to more than 8,000 listeners.

Saffi said: "Radio Faza is growing as more people learn about it and we would
like another licence. We have proved we're capable and we're helping the
community." Muslims fast to show their devotion to God Ramadan is the holiest
month of the year for more than one billion Muslims around the world. It is a
time for reflection, devotion to God and self-control.

During the 29 or 30 days of Ramadan (based on a lunar cycle), eligible Muslims
fast between dawn and sunset. Fasting, or 'sawm', is the fourth pillar, or
religious obligation, of Islam. As well as renouncing food and drink, smoking
and sex during the hours of daylight, Muslims are also expected to avoid evil
thoughts and deeds.

Ramadan is a time of intensive worship, reading of the Qur'an and giving to
charity. Fasting has a dual purpose - it is an opportunity to grow stronger by
enduring weakness, and a way of experiencing hunger and developing sympathy for
the less fortunate.

On the appearance of the first crescent moon after Ramadan, Muslims gather for
Eid ul-Fitr, a day of dressing up, visit their local mosque, and join friends
and family for a celebratory meal.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Nottingham Evening Post

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                              Screen International

                            November 5, 2002 Tuesday

Tucker to direct November 5 terrorist attack movie

BYLINE: Adam Minns in Milan

SECTION: ARTICLE; Categories.Production / Finance

LENGTH: 127  words



HIGHLIGHT: Hilary And Jackie director Anand Tucker is to direct Guy Fawkes story
November 5 for Charles Finch and Luc Roeg's UK production-management company
Artists' Independent Network.


Hilary And Jackie director Anand Tucker is to direct Guy Fawkes story November 5
for Charles Finch and Luc Roeg's UK production-management company Artists'
Independent Network.

Tucker is aiming to start shooting late next year from a script by his regular
collaborator Frank Cottrell Boyce. AIN, which has credits including Spider and
Mike Bassett: England Manager, is developing and to produce the project
in-house.

"They have come up with a really original take on the story, but it will also
use factual history," said Roeg. "There is a personal story as well."

Guy Fawkes, one of the world's most famous terrorists, attempted to blow up King
James I and the Houses of Parliament in the 17th century. The date is
commemorated in the UK with fireworks on November 5.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Screen International


                            Copyright 2002 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          November 6, 2002, Wednesday

ROCKET ATTACK TERROR;
 COUPLE'S FRIGHT AS EXPLOSIVE CRASHES INTO BEDROOM AND THROUGH WALL

BYLINE: Graham Martin Exclusive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1212 words


AN ELDERLY couple cowered in terror as a four-foot firework crashed through
their window and set fire to their duvet.

The huge rocket then punched a hole in John and Nancy McDougall's bedroom wall
before landing in the spare room.

John believes it would have killed anyone sleeping next door. Nancy added: "It
was like something that would have been fired in Bosnia."

The weapon that caused such havoc can be bought legally, over the counter, for
pounds 16.

The McDougalls are among thousands of Scots to suffer as idiots misuse fireworks
before, during and after Bonfire Night.

In the Strathclyde Police area alone, officers have been called to around 2000
firework incidents in the last six weeks.

Nancy, 65, and John, 66, had just gone to bed in Fernhill, Glasgow, when the
rocket came through the window.

John, a retired postal worker, said: "We were reading in bed. I had heard a few
bangs during the night, but nothing out of the ordinary for this time of year.

"Suddenly we heard this huge crash as the window came in. The room was filled
with smoke, and the rocket made this terrifying whooshing sound as it passed
over the foot of our bed.

"There was another crack as it passed through the plasterboard wall into the
spare room.

"There was glass and sparks flying everywhere and the sparks set fire to the
duvet.

"I managed to pat the flames out and we ran from the room.

"When the smoke had cleared, I looked in the spare room and I saw the trajectory
the rocket had taken.

"It entered at exactly the place where someone's head would have been if they
were sleeping in there.

"The scary thing is that when my grandson Jack stays with us, he sleeps with
Nancy in our room and I sleep in the spare room.

"This thing would have ripped my head off if I had been in there.

"I couldn't believe the size of it. The rocket head was almost a foot long and
the pole it was on was about three feet. It must have been travelling at a
tremendous speed."

The rocket is sold under the name Big Whoppa - The Ultimate. Its makers expect
to sell 60,000 this year.

Nancy, a former civil servant, was shocked to hear that such a powerful firework
was so easy to buy.

She said: "You shouldn't be allowed to sell these things over the counter. They
should be banned.

"We have seen at close quarters how destructive they can be. One of us could
have been maimed or killed."

Eighty-nine Scots were injured by fireworks between October 11 and November 8
last year, compared with only 66 in 2000.

Of those hurt in 2001, 63 were 21 or younger.

This year, the emergency services are busy again.

In Strathclyde alone, lit fireworks have been placed in post boxes, thrown at
people and passing cars, and even dropped in the hood of a child's jacket.

Glasgow City Council has seized more than 11 tons of unlicensed fireworks.

The Record told yesterday how young dad Scott McAllister lost his thumb and
index finger when he picked up a rocket at a friend's party three weeks ago.

Scott, of Cumbernauld near Glasgow, also lost the tips of his middle and fourth
fingers. Both his eardrums were perforated, and he suffered eye and face wounds.

He said: "My life will never be the same. I hope people learn from my mistake."

Despite stories like Scott's, the horror is continuing across Britain.

Adam Southeron, 18, had his right hand blown off on Monday night when he picked
up a huge display firework and it exploded.

The "Bad Boy" rocket that injured Adam in Salford, near Manchester, was designed
for displays but on sale to the public.

Adam was the second teenager in days to be maimed by a firework in the
Manchester area. A boy of 15 had his hand blown off last week when he tried to
set off a firework in a cupboard at his school in Bury.

Animals suffer too. More than 770 were hurt by fireworks in Britain last year.

A 12-week-old kitten was recovering yesterday after a firework was taped to his
back and set alight.

Toffee suffered serious burns to his back, one side of his body and his ear when
he was attacked in Liverpool.

The makers of the rocket that terrified the McDougalls on Monday insist that
such fireworks are safe.

Ray Rapley, of Black Cat Fireworks, said: "This is the only complaint we've
received about the Whoppa. The vast majority of complaints are about small
fireworks.

"The expense and the size of these things usually puts people off misusing
them."

He added: "This is the biggest make of firework we sell. Under regulations
brought in in 1997, no rocket can weigh more than 500grams. The Big Whoppa
weighs 460grams, so it's about as big as you can get.

"Legally, it should be used only in displays."

Police believe the rocket was fired near the McDougalls' semi-detached home.

Detective Constable Maureen O'Neill, of Rutherglen CID, said: "This was an
extremely reckless thing to do. It is lucky that someone was not seriously
injured or even killed by this.

"We are treating this extremely seriously and appeal for any witnesses to come
forward."

First Minister Jack McConnell has promised new laws making it illegal to sell
fireworks without a licence.

Should the sales of all fireworks for private use be outlawed?

YES

THE growing number of politicians seeking a ban on firework sales includes
Glasgow Springburn Labour MSP Paul Martin.

He is horrified by the number of people injured by fireworks and feels
youngsters can get them too easily.

"There is far too much scope for abuse," he says. "I believe we should seek to
organise more local displays and train people to deal with fireworks in a
professional way. It remains very easy for fireworks to end up in the wrong
hands. Youngsters dealing with these explosives are a bad mix.

"Year on year, we hear of terrible accidents and I believe we should do more to
stop them happening." After running a poll on his website, he says: "So far,
every single person to respond has agreed that fireworks represent too great a
danger to be sold in the manner they are at present.

"The fireworks on sale just now are very dangerous, they should be displayed in
a controlled environment.

"I'm calling on the Scottish Executive to work with Westminster for a total ban
throughout the UK."

NO

CLAMPING down on firework sales would lead to a black market in cheap and
illegal imports, claims manufacturer Andy Hubble.

The boss of Bracknell Fireworks and spokesman for the Firework Safety Campaign
says: "The fireworks in Britain are the best and the safest in the world.

"If people would only follow the instructions closely, there would be no
accidents.

"If there was a blanket ban, there would undoubtedly be people trying to make
money from selling illegally.

"These products would probably not even come with adequate instructions, or
proper safety tips."

He adds that millions of people enjoy fireworks: "They are part of our culture
and it would be a dreadful shame if they were taken away."

WHAT DO

YOU SAY?

I want to totally ban fireworks

0901 564 3721

I don't want them sold to the public

0901 564 3722

I think the law is fine as it stands

0901 564 3723

Calls cost 10p Ask bill payers permission

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                November 8, 2002

Terror attack warning;
 World News

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 95 words


NATIONAL: Dramatic warnings about a chemical or nuclear terror attack were
accidentally issued by the Home Office last night.

Al Qaida could be ready to use a "dirty bomb, or some kind of poison gas",
according to a statement issued in Home Secretary David Blunkett's name.

But the security assessment was rapidly recalled by officials and replaced with
a warning about attacks on "key economic targets or upon our transport
infrastructure".

The initial assessment came in the foreword to a summary of anti-terrorist
measures taken in recent months.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            November 8, 2002, Friday

MIX-UP OVER TERROR ATTACKS WARNING

BYLINE: James Lyons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 433 words


DRAMATIC warnings about a chemical or nuclear terror attack were accidentally
issued by the Home Office last night.

Al Qaida could be ready to use "a so-called dirty bomb, or some kind of poison
gas", according to a statement issued in Home Secretary David Blunkett's name.

But the security assessment was rapidly recalled by officials and replaced with
a warning about attacks on "key economic targets or upon our transport
infrastructure".

The initial assessment came in the foreword to a summary of antiterrorist
measures taken in recent months.

Both versions urged people to remain vigilant to the continuing threat of Irish
and international terrorism.

However, the first warned: "They may attempt to use more familiar terrorist
methods, such as leaving parcel or vehicle bombs in public places, to hijacking
passenger aircraft.

"However, they may try something different, perhaps as surprising as the attacks
on the World Trade Centre, or the theatre siege in Moscow.

"Maybe they will try to develop a so-called dirty bomb, or some kind of poison
gas; maybe they will try to use boats or trains rather then planes.

"The bottom line is that we simply cannot be sure."

The mix-up came as Mr Blunkett held talks with US Director for Homeland Security
Tom Ridge and intelligence chiefs.

A Home Office spokeswoman said the first version was "an early draft" that had
not been authorised by the Home Secretary.

Simon Hughes, Liberal Democrat homes affairs spokesman, called on Mr Blunkett to
clear up the confusion created by the document withdrawal. "Home Office mistakes
are frequent enough," Mr Hughes said.

L Talks were still going on yesterday at the United Nations in New York in the
hope of securing agreement on a draft resolution to enforce destruction of
Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw told MPs the joint US-UK resolution - drawn up
after eight weeks of intensive diplomacy - gave Saddam Hussein "a final
opportunity" to comply with UN disarmament requirements imposed after the 1991
Gulf War.

But he stressed that the resolution did not mean military action was imminent,
insisting that the prospect of war would recede if it was adopted by the UN
Security Council.

Security Council permanent members France and Russia have yet to sign up to the
new draft, but their concerns are understood to be limited to certain
"ambiguities" in the details of its text.

Diplomatic sources were still holding out some hope of securing unanimity with
the endorsement of the council's only Arab member, Syria.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                November 8, 2002

WOMEN BEHIND TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: E. MMA SLEE

SECTION: News; 999; Murders/violentcrime; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 827 words


Two young city women are facing a jail sentence after viciously beating a female
taxi driver on the head with rocks before stealing her takings. Mother-of-three
Joanne Westlake was battered up to 20 times by the robbers, who had planned the
attack and armed themselves with stones.

Melanie Hoer, 31, and Clare Manser, 18, left their victim unconscious and
covered in blood when they ran off with the cash.

Yesterday, they were remanded in custody at Exeter Crown Court by Judge Graham
Cottle, who warned them that they would inevitably go to jail for subjecting the
taxi driver to a "most terrifying experience".

The officer in charge of the case said that it was one of the most brutal
attacks he had seen carried out by women.

After the case was adjourned for pre-sentence reports, Miss Westlake said she
still had trouble sleeping - four months after the attack happened in Exeter on
May 5.

But she had returned to work the next day because she was determined not to let
her attackers win.

After she was found unconscious, slumped in the front seat of her cab, she was
rushed to hospital on a spinal board.

Four deep lacerations on her head were treated with medical 'glue'. She suffered
no skull fractures but did sustain severe bruising.

Miss Westlake, 38, who has now ordered a GBP 1,500 surveillance system for her
cab, told the Echo: "They hit me around four times before I registered what was
going on. I called for help on the radio and handed them the money.

"When they ran off, I locked all the doors and telephoned my boyfriend. I lost
consciousness when I was still on the phone, and woke up to find a policeman
banging on the window.

"I was covered in blood. When I looked in the mirror it was a scary sight. I
went back to work the next day. I borrowed someone else's car because mine was
being tested for forensics. I knew if I didn't go back straight away I never
would. I have thought about changing jobs but I don't believe in quitting." Miss
Westlake said she was still wary about driving along dark lanes, getting out of
her car to knock on doors and having passengers sit directly behind her in the
car.

She had felt vulnerable when both defendants were on bail and was also "shaken
up" when she heard about the attack on city bus driver Hazel Fry who was hit on
the head with a baseball bat and robbed.

But she has remained realistic, and said: "I can't avoid picking up young people
and I can't avoid picking up people at night." She added: "Taxi, bus and train
drivers are all vulnerable and need more protection. We are an essential service
to people who want to avoid driving convictions. The council should think about
giving out grants for extra protection devices." Hoer, a mother of a
nine-year-old girl, of Wykes Road, Polsloe, and Manser, of Orwell Garth,
Whipton, both pleaded guilty to robbery.

Although they initially blamed each other for the attack, both later accepted it
was pre-planned and a joint enterprise.

Detective Sergeant Paul Burgan, of Exeter CID, said: "It is extremely rare that
two females are involved in such a brutal attack. Both showed little remorse
during the investigation.

"They have both shown they are capable of extreme violence and will be punished
accordingly." Prosecutor Andrew Oldland said Miss Westlake, a self-employed
driver, was called to pick up a group of people from outside Somerfield in
Heavitree at 2am. Three females and one male got in. The man was dropped off
first at Lower Hill Barton Road. She then took the others to Thackery Road.

One got out but two stayed in the car and demanded her takings.

Not wanting any trouble, Miss Westlake said they could leave without paying the
GBP 5 fare but then, without warning, she was repeatedly beaten over the head.

She gave them the cash bag containing GBP 75 and they ran off. The two stones
were later recovered in the car.

In police interview both girls - who spent the money between them - blamed each
other for the attack.

Another witness said she heard Manser saying she wanted to rob a taxi driver
that night.

Yesterday both admitted playing a part in the robbery and arming themselves with
the stones before they got into the taxi.

Hoer was of previous good character but the court heard how Manser had
convictions for violence as a juvenile, including threatening a shop assistant
with a knife when she was 12 and punching a female in the mouth.

Sean Brunton, defending Hoer, said his client was dependent on heroin and
alcohol at the time of the offence.

Alan Large, representing Manser, said his client had matured considerably in the
last four months.

Judge Cottle adjourned the case and remanded the women in custody, telling them:
"Prison is the inevitable consequence of this case for both of you." Hoer was
led away in tears while Manser nodded to her family in the public gallery before
being taken to the cells.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                November 8, 2002

Lasting Legacy Of Terror Attack

SECTION: News:Other:Others, Pg.39

LENGTH: 193 words


The US Director of Homeland Security last night said America would "wrestle
forever" with the impact of September 11. In his first official speech in
Britain, Governor Tom Ridge insisted that the threat from al Qaida and other
groups was "unlike any other we have faced". After a speech at King's College,
London, he was questioned by comedian Rory Bremner, who was in the audience,
about his country's "catastrophic failure" to avoid the September 11 hijacks. Mr
Ridge said: "There are literally thousands and thousands of analysts and
think-tanks as well as the Congress of the United States looking into that
incident to better understand how it happened and how it could have been
avoided."

Seal epidemic over

AN epidemic that has wiped out thousands of seals no longer appears to be
killing animals in the Danish waters where it started, scientists said
yesterday. The phocine distemper epidemic broke out in Denmark in May and is
believed to have killed 21,000 seals as it spread along the northern European
coasts, from the Netherlands to Norway. "We estimate that no more seals are
dying," said a Danish Forest and Nature Agency spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 9, 2002, Saturday

Fears of terrorist attacks hit peak

BYLINE: Michael Evans, Rosemary Bennett and Roger Boyes

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 611 words


Blair to warn of rising threat to UK. MI5 intercepts talk of al-Qaeda plots

INTELLIGENCE intercepts of al-Qaeda suspects have uncovered a level of terrorist
plotting on the same scale as in the weeks leading up to the September 11
attacks, The Times can disclose.

The intense level of al-Qaeda "chatter" picked up by American and British
signals interceptions led to David Blunkett's sombre warning of a terrorist
attack.

The intelligence gleaned in recent weeks pointed directly to a terrorist threat
against Western interests, and the United Kingdom is believed to be on the list
of targets.

In the more alarmist version of Mr Blunkett's assessment of the threat that was
put out by the Home Office in error - and then rapidly retrieved - the Home
Secretary gave a warning of the possibility of Britain being attacked by
terrorists armed with a "dirty" radiological bomb or poison gas.

Yesterday, Mr Blunkett said that a "clerical error" had been made and the wrong
assessment had been published. The version subsequently published made no
reference to "dirty" bombs. Mr Blunkett said that he did not want to risk
creating "unjustified panic and disruption".

The evidence which has emerged, however, from the latest intelligence makes it
clear that the threat to Britain is high and Government officials saw the need
to let the public know. Tony Blair was involved in the decision to publish the
terrorism document.

Both drafts of the statement, the one warning of a potential dirty bomb or
poison gas attack and the other using more bland language, had been formally
approved by the security and intelligence services, indicating that the first
was as legitimate as the second.

However, the "dirty" bomb scenario has become more of an obsession with the
United States. This was made clear by Governor Tom Ridge, President Bush's
Homeland Security Advisor, when he met the heads of all the British agencies in
London this week.

The main concern in British intelligence circles is the potential threat from
suicide bombers. The Bali bomb came as a severe shock because it demonstrated
that al-Qaeda had switched to attacking a soft Western target. There are fears
that a similar attack could be attempted in Britain.

The reason for publishing the Home Office document was to encourage the public
to be vigilant. "There have been many cases where members of the public have
alerted the police when spotting a suspect package and we needed to inject the
same sense of vigilance for the latest threats we face," one Whitehall official
said.

Anxiety over growing complacency of a terrorist threat has driven Mr Blair to
make it the subject of his annual speech at the Lord Mayor's banquet on Monday.

The Prime Minister will say the need for vigilance is as great as immediately
after the September 11 attacks and urge the public to be on its guard.

Although the threat to the City and other prominent locations in the country is
"qualitatively different" than that posed by the IRA in the 1970s and 1980s, the
public response should be the same, he will say.

His advisers say he is trying to strike the right balance between alerting the
public to the danger and triggering the sort of panic that followed the
September 11 attacks.

One of the most alarming warnings of a terrorist outrage in Europe came from
Germany. Hans-Josef Beth, head of the International Terrorism Department of the
Security Service (BND), has identified Abu Mussab al-Zarqawi, a one-legged
terrorist with experience in chemical warfare, as the likely mastermind of a
future assault.

Terror alert, page 4

Leading article, page 29


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 9, 2002, Saturday

Germany fears new attack by al-Qaeda terrorist

BYLINE: Roger Boyes in Berlin and Daniel McGrory

SECTION: Overseas news; 4

LENGTH: 298 words


A ONE-LEGGED terrorist with experience in chemical warfare is believed to be
planning an attack on European targets in the coming weeks, according to the
German intelligence service.

Abu Mussab al-Zarqawi has been named by Hans-Josef Beth, head of the BND, the
German secret service, as the likely mastermind of a future assault. "Zarqawi is
the man we have to watch as far as Germany and Europe is concerned," Herr Beth
told a meeting of the German-Atlantic Society in Berlin.

The Jordanian-born terrorist used London as his base until Osama bin Laden
ordered him to move to Afghanistan in 2000 to run one of al-Qaeda's training
camps.

A handpicked group of young Muslims experimented with deadly toxins at this camp
in the Afghan mountains. Some of the science students were drawn from a group
calling itself al-Tawhid, led by Zarqawi, and had been taught at British
colleges.

Toxins such as ricin were tested on farm animals. There are also unconfirmed
reports that an al-Qaeda team went so far as to test it on human beings, killing
at least one person who was picked at random for attack in a market.

After their training in Afghanistan Zarqawi sent the recruits back to their home
bases, which included hideouts in Europe.

Zarqawi's group has been monitored closely by the German authorities since last
April when a truck loaded with propane gas bottles was driven into a Tunisian
synagogue, killing 14 German tourists.

Herr Beth said that there were new indications that Zarqawi had been ordering
men into Europe. "He has experience with poisonous chemicals and biological
weapons . . . and has become highly active. Something big is in the air," he
added.

The BND believes that German and other western troops in Afghanistan could be
targets.


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 11, 2002, Monday

NEW TERROR TARGET ALERT;
 PM WARNS OF ATTACKS BLAIR: Terror threat as intense as ever

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 217 words


TONY Blair was today issuing a stark warning that Islamic militants could bring
their terror campaign to the UK.

More than a year after the September 11 atrocities in the USA, he was due to
spell out in stark terms the continued need for public vigilance against terror
attacks at home.

His warning comes just days after the Government was accused of unnecessarily
sparking anxiety by issuing - and then immediately withdrawing - a statement
detailing possible al Qaida tactics including 'dirty' nuclear bombs and attacks
on boats and trains in Britain.

But he was set to insist that, despite successes such as the toppling of
Afghanistan's Taliban regime, the threat from Osama bin Laden's international
terror network remains real and serious.

Recent events, including the bombing of Bali, have shown that no country is
immune from attack, he will say.

Britons cannot afford to assume that they are safe simply because the UK has so
far escaped outrages, and must remain alert to the potential dangers.

Security measures alone will not be enough to overcome al Qaida.

Yesterday Home Secretary David Blunkett warned that the UK was in the 'front
line' for terrorist attacks and that the security and policing services could
not guarantee public safety at all times.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 11, 2002

VOX POP: How concerned are you that terrorists could attack the UK?

SECTION: Vox Pop, Pg.11

LENGTH: 78 words


Martyn Moore, 49, Emersons Green "Not particularly. It's very difficult to know
what information you can trust these days, inside or outside the country."

Nick Tomkins, 50, W arm l ey "Not really. If it's going to happen, it's going to
happen. There's not much we can do about it."

Chris Daniels, 37, Totterdown "No, I'm not worried at all, because I don't see
any evidence that we are at risk. Even if we were there's not much you can do
about it."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 11, 2002, Monday

Amnesty fear for Enniskillen bombers Survivors of the terrorist attack feel
betrayed by the lack of arrests, reports Thomas Harding

BYLINE: By THOMAS HARDING

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 513 words

SURVIVORS of the Enniskillen bombing on Remembrance Day 15 years ago claim that
a secret police review of the case will not lead to prosecutions because it will
upset the political process.

The killers are still at large despite their identities allegedly being known to
the authorities.

The Fermanagh and South Tyrone Terrorist Victims' Association is concerned that
new legislation will be introduced that will give an amnesty to "on the run"
terrorists including the Enniskillen bombers.

The Government is said to be considering setting up a tribunal in which
terrorists and members of the security forces would make a "declaration of
culpability" in exchange for a pardon, according to a report yesterday.

The murder of 11 Protestant civilians, aged between 20 and 74, who had assembled
to remember the war dead in the small Co Fermanagh border town led to worldwide
condemnation of the IRA.

Survivors were told seven months ago that the senior detectives would conduct a
six-week review of the case but have heard nothing. Some say it would take just
nine hours to review the case and make arrests. One man, Charles Caufield, has
been named three times in Parliament as an Enniskillen bombing suspect.

At the time of the attack the IRA and Sinn Fein, its political wing, were in
secret ceasefire negotiations with the Government. IRA chiefs, some now in
senior positions in Sinn Fein, are alleged to have made the "strategic decision"
to carry out the attack to drive Protestants out of the border town. The
intended targets of the 40lb device were 115 men and women of the volunteer
Ulster Defence Regiment whose arrival for the parade was delayed.

The mastermind behind the bombing is allegedly a man in his 50s thought to be
living in the border counties of the Irish Republic.

Jim Dixon, 65, the chairman of the victims' organisation who suffered multiple
injuries in the blast, said: "The file has been left to gather dust. There was
no investigation done, just the public appearance of one. We have been betrayed
because nothing has happened."

Aileen Quinton, 44, whose mother, Alberta, 72, was killed in the blast, said: "I
would not be desperately surprised if politics took over because the so called
peace process, or rather appeasement process, is much more important than
justice. Every decent principle must be sacrificed to it.

"The bomber is more important than my mother and I'm not important because I
haven't murdered somebody."

The Rev David Cupples, of the Presbyterian Church in Enniskillen, said: "The
passage of time doesn't erase people's guilt. They are as guilty now as they
were 15 years ago. The police are still under an obligation to catch those who
were responsible."

A police spokesman said: "We are currently carrying out a review of all recent
material relating to the Enniskillen bombing. It's normal procedure to review
outstanding murder investigations."

Amid heavy security yesterday, hundreds of Enniskillen residents took part in
the remembrance service still held on the site of the bombing.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                               November 11, 2002

Blair warning on UK terror attacks

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 334 words


More than a year after the September 11 atrocities in the USA, he was due to
spell out in stark terms the continued need for public vigilance against terror
attacks at home.  His warning comes just days after the Government was accused
of unnecessarily sparking anxiety by issuing - and then immediately withdrawing
- a statement detailing possible al Qaida tactics including "dirty" nuclear
bombs and attacks on boats and trains in Britain.

But he was set to insist that, despite successes such as the toppling of
Afghanistan's Taliban regime, the threat from Osama bin Laden's international
terror network remains real and serious.

Recent events, including the bombing of Bali, have shown that no country is
immune from attack, he will say. Britons cannot afford to assume that they are
safe simply because the UK has so far escaped outrages, and must remain alert to
the potential dangers.

Security measures alone will not be enough to overcome al Qaida, and the UK must
work with its international allies and partners to confront them, he will add.

Mr Blair's speech to the Lord Mayor's banquet in the City of London is his major
foreign policy statement of the year. It will range over terrorism, the Iraq
crisis, world poverty and the Doha talks on trade liberalisation, stressing the
importance of international co-operation in dealing with all these problems.

It was foreshadowed yesterday by Home Secretary David Blunkett, who warned that
the UK was in the "front line" for terrorist attacks.

Terrorists could be expected to target public events such as yesterday's
Remembrance Day ceremonies or try to disrupt everyday life in the run-up to
Christmas and the New Year, he said.

And he admitted that the security and policing services could not guarantee
public safety at all times.

Although he gave no details of specific intelligence of an expected attack, Mr
Blunkett said: "There is always a danger, because we are literally in the front
line." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 The Gloucester Citizen

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 11, 2002

Threat of war: Blair warns of greater terrorism threat: Security: UK safety from
attack 'cannot be guaranteed'

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 575 words


Tony Blair is to call for heightened vigilance against the growing threat from
international terrorism, while arguing that governments cannot be expected to
guarantee safety from attack.

In his address to the Lord Mayor's banquet in London tonight, Mr Blair is
expected to argue that "homeland security" can only be totally guaranteed at the
price of paralysing an open society, disrupting daily civilian life and
abandoning civil liberties. Such a wholesale reordering of society would amount
to a victory for the terrorists.

No 10 aides suggest that he will call for greater realism from those who claim
that intelligence agencies should be able to identify an immediate terrorist
threat. The warnings given to intelligence agencies in advance of the recent
Bali bomb covered 60% of Indonesia. Similarly, British intelligence was aware of
an increased threat posed by al-Qaida before the September 11 attacks last year,
but did not have details about the timing, targets, location or nature of the
attack.

The prime minister's speech, in which he will admit that the terrorist threat is
higher now than it was a year ago, follows the Home Office mistake in releasing
an alarmist warning that Britain may face a dirty bomb attack from either land
or sea.

Mr Blair's aides insist that the prime minister's call for greater realism in
the debate about risk and security is not an admission that governments cannot
protect a society vulnerable to terrorism.

Officials admit it is hard to call for vigilance, including precautionary travel
warnings, without prompting panic and paralysis.

But Whitehall has not been afraid of issuing such warnings in the past. In 1998
the Foreign Office published a document on possible threats, including the
warning that 100 kilograms of anthrax released from the top of a tall building
in a densely populated area could kill up to 3m people.

David Veness, head of Britain's anti-terrorist police, said last year that a
nuclear or biological attack was "sadly, the next logical step".

Following last year's terror attacks the government announced an extra pounds
11m funding for Scotland Yard to counter possible threats to the UK. It is
understood that the money was intended to strengthen security at airports,
aircraft maintenance depots and ports. Last night the Home Office confirmed that
the extra money was also being used to enhance the capabilities of the armed
police unit at Heathrow airport.

Armed officers already patrol sensitive buildings in the capital, such as the
American embassy which is protected by a concrete barrier to prevent car bomb
attacks.

Mr Blair will tonight praise the UN for agreeing to take firm action against
Iraq. He will insist that Saddam Hussein now has a final opportunity to avert
war, but military action is a serious possibility.

Reviewing the government's foreign policy last year in the wake of the terrorist
attack on the twin towers, Mr Blair accepted that many Arabs saw double
standards in the west's approach to the Middle East dispute. He has subsequently
called for a Middle East peace conference by the end of this year. His aides
accept the target will not be met, partly due to imminent elections in Israel.

Mr Blair will also praise the US and the UN for staying the course in
Afghanistan, but is not likely to comment on plans for the UN security
protection force to be extended beyond Kabul to other cities.


LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               November 12, 2002

Ports on alert in threat of terror attack;
 Security stepped up after warningSecurity stepped up after warning

BYLINE: By Brian Walker

LENGTH: 384 words


Prime Minister Tony Blair addresses last night's Lord Mayor's banquet in London

FOLLOWING the Prime Minister's stark warning of the continuing high level of
threat from al-Qaida, its been revealed that ferry ports between Britain and the
continent have been put on "heightened emergency", their highest-ever level of
alert.

French and Dutch intelligence were warned by the FBI of reports that a truck
laden with explosives was to be loaded on a ferry.

The warning which was issued to the port authorities by Transec, an arm of the
Department of Transport, was unspecific.

No such truck has so far been traced.

The ferry authorities at Dover confirmed that they had stepped up spot-checks on
heavy lorries while car traffic has been largely unaffected.

Commenting on the BBC reports, Downing Street said no new government warning had
been issued about ferry travel.

"No-one should change their ferry travel plans," said a statement.

The episode is a vivid example of the daily warnings of international terrorism
emerging in the background noise of monitoring "crossing the desks of the
intelligence services, my desk, the Home Secretary's desk all the time,"
according to the Prime Minister.

Speaking at the Lord Mayor's Banquet in the City of London last night, Mr Blair
said: "Barely a day goes by without some piece of intelligence about a threat to
UK interests.

"Some of it will be reliable; some of it will be misinformation fed in to waste
our time chasing shadows."

And he added: "If, on the basis of a general warning we were to shut down all
the places that al-Qaida might be considering for an attack, we would be doing
their job for them."

He said the Government would take what measures it could and urged businesses to
ensure precautions are implemented.

"Whether here in the UK or when travelling abroad, all of us as citizens have to
be alert, vigilant and to cooperate fully with the relevant authorities," he
said.

While the threat is so far unspecific, Mr Blair's warning comes at a time of
growing international tension as concern over a war with Iraq merges with fears
over the war on terrorism.

"It is a war I have total confidence we will win, but will not be without pain
or come without a price," said Mr Blair.


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               November 12, 2002

Ports On High Alert For Terror Attack

SECTION: News:Business:Others, Pg.1

LENGTH: 228 words


The sites, which form the busiest port in the UK, have redoubled security
efforts after French and Dutch security services warned terrorists would attempt
to board a North Sea ferry in a truck loaded with explosives.

Security has been particularly tightened at Immingham, as ferries are thought to
be most at risk.

Assistant port manager, Roger Arundale said: "We have been on very high alert
since last September and this is the next stage.

"The main focus seems to be on ferries, so Immingham is on a heightened level of
alert."

Mr Arundale could not reveal details of the plans for security reasons.

The French and Dutch warning led to the UK's Department for Transport asking
British ports to tighten security.

Then, last Friday, UK immigration services informed Kent police that there had
been a telephoned threat about a bomb at Dover.

But both Downing Street and port authorities tried to quell fears by urging
travellers to take journeys as planned.

Home Office Minister John Denham confirmed that steps had been taken to "raise
awareness" at the ports and among other transport operators.

But insisted there had not been any overall increase in the state of alert.

Iraq's parliament today unanimously recommended rejection of the UN resolution
on arms inspection, but said the final decision would be left to the country's
top leadership.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               November 12, 2002

Rocket Attack Terror

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 55 words


Well thank goodness the fireworks saga is at an end.  I am in my eighties and am
sure Guy Fawkes Night was not so terrifying in the past as it is today.

My house shook with a rocket coming through my toilet window, which was closed.
It took out the glass. I do agree with banning them.

V. FOX Sneinton Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Nottingham Evening Post

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               November 12, 2002

Appeals for calm as Britain is warned of ferry terror attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 485 words


The Government last night took the unusual step of releasing its latest security
advice to ports and ferry operators in an attempt to calm fears of an imminent
terrorist attack.

Ministers were forced to act after details of the confidential circular issued
by Transec - the security division of the Department of Transport - were leaked
to the Press. The memo referred to a recent warning from the French and Dutch
authorities of a possible terrorist act against ferries. The Dutch alert may be
particularly significant for this region because of ferries plying North Sea
routes such as Hull Rotterdam and Hull Zeebrugge - although the memo concluded
there was no credible information or intelligence to support the claim.
Nevertheless, it reminded recipients of the need to maintain increased vigilance
in the current heightened security environment. A copy of the circular was
obtained by Lloyd's List and featured prominently in early morning news
bulletins on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme. It is feared that terrorists could
drive a lorry packed with explosives onto a ferry. It followed hard on the heels
of Tony Blair's speech on Monday night in which he said British intelligence was
receiving daily warnings and predicting the country would have to pay a painful
price to defeat terrorism. However, with Ministers anxious to avoid creating
mass panic, the Prime Minister's official spokesman has urged journalists to
exercise care in the way they reported warnings. There is a lot of intelligence
around. Every piece of it in the hands of certain journalists could, no doubt,
lead the news. But I think we have to ask whether that is, in the circumstances
we find ourselves, necessarily a helpful way to conduct the debate, the
spokesman said. The intervention by Downing Street again reflected the difficult
balance that Ministers have to strike between reminding people to remain
vigilant and avoiding panic. Only least week the Home Office withdrew advice
issued in error - warning of the threat of a poison gas or so-called dirty bomb
attack - to replace it with a more general warning. The text of the Transec
warning released by the Department of Transport, said: Despite the recent
warnings from the French and Dutch authorities of a possible terrorist act
against ferries, we do not assess that there is any credible information or
intelligence in support. Threat levels to British maritime interests remain
unchanged. The warning continues: However, due to the heightened security
environment generally, we would remind you of the need to maintain increased
vigilance, to continue to operate the recently enhanced security measures and to
report any significant developments to the Transec duty office. A spokesman for
P&O Ferries said that the firm always adhered to national guidelines on safety
and had been operating in a high state of security for some time.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          November 13, 2002, Wednesday

WAR ON TERRORISM: MOVE TO CALM FEARS OF FERRY ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 333 words


The Government last night took the unusual step of releasing its latest security
advice to ports and ferry operators in an attempt to calm fears of an imminent
terrorist attack.

Ministers were forced to act after details of the confidential circular issued
by Transec - the security division of the Department of Transport - were leaked
to the press.

The memo referred to a recent warning from the French and Dutch authorities of a
'possible terrorist act' against ferries, although it concluded there was no
'credible information or intelligence' to support the claim.

Nevertheless, it reminded recipients of the need to maintain 'increased
vigilance' in the current 'heightened security environment'.

A copy of the circular was obtained by Lloyd's List.

The concerns were said to centre on the threat that terrorists could drive a
lorry packed with explosives on to a roll-on, roll-off ferry.

It followed hard on the heels of Tony Blair's speech on Monday night in which he
said British intelligence was receiving daily warnings of new threats and
predicting the country would have to pay a painful price to defeat terrorism.

However, with Ministers anxious to avoid creating mass panic, the Prime
Minister's official spokesman yesterday urged journalists to exercise care in
the way they reported such warnings.

Referring to Mr Blair's speech, he went on: 'He was taking the public into his
confidence in the hope that we can have a mature understanding of this issue,
and making the point that, if we publicised or acted on every piece of raw
intelligence, we would be doing the terrorists' job for them.'

The intervention by Downing Street again reflected the difficult balance that
ministers have to strike between reminding people to remain vigilant and
avoiding panic.

Only least week the Home Office withdrew advice issued in error - warning of the
threat of a poison gas or so-called 'dirty bomb' attack - to replace it with a
more general warning.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 13, 2002

Firemen's strike is on as the threat of terror attack grows

BYLINE: Paul Eastham;Darren Behar

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words


FIREFIGHTERS will launch their first national strike for a quarter of a century
tonight after pay talks broke down in anger, bitterness and suspicion.

More than 55,000 will abandon their posts at 6pm and stay away for two days
after union leaders rejected an 11 per cent pay offer recommended by an
independent review.

Fire Brigades Union leader Andy Gilchrist stormed out of last-ditch negotiations
in London and said he had reached the decision 'with incredible regret and great
reluctance'.

He accused 'dark forces' in the Government of seeking to provoke a strike rather
than pay a fair wage. But Tony Blair immediately declared that the strike was '
dangerous and wrong' and Labour chairman Dr John Reid said that for the
firefighters to go on strike when there was an increased threat of terrorist
attack showed they were 'not in the real world'.

Senior fire union leaders warned that people would die because of the strike,
and Downing Street will today put Britain on full scale emergency footing.

From this evening all 999 calls to the fire service will be handled by a
military command centre,19,000 members of Britain's already overstretched armed
services and barely 800 ageing Green Goddess military fire engines.

But behind the tough public show Ministers are deeply worried. They fear the
sight of the poorly equipped pumping appliances on the streets will inevitably
recall the last strike in 1977 and the 'Winter of Discontent' overseen by the
last Labour Government under Jim Callaghan.

There was one last - faint - glimmer of hope last night that the strike could
still be averted after Deputy Premier John Prescott demanded a meeting with Andy
Gilchrist this morning.

On the surface it is to discuss whether the union would provide cover in the
event of an emergency. Privately, however, insiders say it is a last opportunity
to reach a settlement.

The strike was confirmed yesterday when Mr Gilchrist left 11th hour pay talks
where he furiously rejected the 11 per cent offer recommended by a Government
review headed by Sir George Bain.

The FBU leader said the offer - far short of the 40 per cent the union is
demanding - came 'not with strings but with ropes attached' and was 'simply
unacceptable'. He blamed the breakdown on 'despicable' interference by
Ministers.

He rejected the Bain plan because it offered no more than the 4 per cent offer
that had already been on the table for this year, followed by 7 per cent next.

Mr Gilchrist was even more annoyed because Sir George insisted they would not
even get this money unless the firefighters agreed to sweeping changes in
'Spanish' work practices.

John Rainsford of the Local Government Association insisted they had made a
'fair and reasonable' offer and declared they would not give in to 'bully boy
tactics designed to hold this country to ransom and put lives at risk'.

Even the normally mild-mannered Fire Service Minister Nick Raynsford lambasted
the walkout as 'unnecessary, unreasonable and completely unjustified'. He said
the union had been given a ' substantial' pay offer which most people would see
as a sensible basis for discussion.

The blistering exchanges indicated-that both sides were digging in for a lengthy
dispute.

Union chiefs strongly suspect that ministers have only been going through the
motions of negotiating.

They believe Chancellor Gordon Brown is especially determined to see the
militant fire union crushed in order to head off a worrying spiral in public
sector pay demands from nurses, teachers, higher education staff, consultants
and doctors.

The 48 hour national strike starting tonight will be only the start.

Unless there is a breakthrough a series of three eight-day strikes will follow
on November 22, December 4 and December 16. The final stoppage will end on
Christmas Eve.

There were fears last night that the stoppages would trigger walkoutson a scale
not seen since the 1970s as workers, particularly in power and transport
industries, cite health and safety concerns.

Some 19 London Underground stations are to close and there are fears other rail
services will be hit. High-rise buildings may have to be evacuated and hospitals
and other public services will have to put into practice emergency procedures.

Dave Patton, head of health and safety at the Fire Brigades Union, warned that
people in businesses and households would die because the normal fire service
would not be operating.

Mr Patton said: 'More people are going to die because of the action. Any
business that has concerns about their ability to cope in the event of a fire
during a strike should close.'

Green Goddess

827, manned by up to 19,000 members of the armed forces. The 7.2-ton truck was
designed as a simple fire engine for use by untrained civilians in event of
nuclear war.

Age: 50 years.

Speed: 50mph, cut to 35mph when laden with water.

Ladders: One of 30ft, in some cases made of wood.

Breathing apparatus: Optional.

Hoses: Reels capable of 60lb/sq in.

Crew: 6, rudimentary fire training.

Cutting gear: None, though crews will take basic equipment such as crowbars and
hacksaws on board if necessary.

Computer technology: None Reliability:

Low. Many mothballed since 1977 though will be serviced before going into
action; frequent breakdowns previously

How 19,000 troops will try to avert disaster

UP TO 19,000 troops are ready for action under contingency plans due to come
into force at 6pm this evening.

Approximately 12,000 Army personnel and 3,500 apiece from the RAF and Navy will
be involved in Operation Fresco.

Most of those are crewing the 827 Green Goddesses, though many have had only a
few hours training in how to use the equipment and have little or no experience
of tackling real fires.

On a strike day, the 999 emergencynumber will still be the public's first port
of call.

Calls requesting fire help will be diverted from 6pm tonight to around 60 Joint
Operations Centres across the country.

Each call will be assessed by a panel, including principal fire officers and
Ministry of Defence officials, who will decide which calls can be answered and
in what order.

Incidents where lives are at risk will be given priority ahead of saving
property.

The operation centres will then send Green Goddesses and their crews to
emergencies.

Police cars will accompany the Green Goddesses to provide radio links and
navigational equipment.

The fire service's strict targets for response times will go out the window
completely during a strike.

Officials admit crews will 'just have to do their best'.

The main problem is that the Green Goddesses are slower. It is not expected that
police will go to each call first, to assess it, as has been reported.

The Cabinet emergency committee Cobra will meet regularly in Whitehall
throughout the strikes to monitor how well the operation is working, to keep
ministers informed and to fine tune the system.

One senior Army officer said: 'The guys will buckle down and give it their best
shot because they know the public need them, but we're not kidding ourselves
that we can do the same job as the firefighters. This isn't what we joined the
Army for, and I think there's a feeling that we're having to cope with a crisis
that needn't have happened.

'But the Army is a disciplined and professional outfit, and we'll just have to
crack on.

'What's going to be very tough is if we simply can't do enough in a particular
situation, and a member of the public ends up paying the price.

We're all praying that isn't going to happen.'


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ANGRY: LEADER ANDY GILCHRIST BRITAIN'S AGEING FLEET OF GREEN GODDESSES,
THE WORLD'S OLDEST FIRE ENGINE, HAS BEEN PUT ON STANDBY TO COVER FOR STRIKING
FIREFIGHTERS. ANGRY: LEADER ANDY GILCHRIST

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 13, 2002

Ministers release security advice to calm public fears of terrorist attacks

BYLINE: Michael Settle

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 296 words


MINISTERS last night sought to calm public fears of an imminent terrorist attack
by taking the unusual step of releasing the government's latest security advice
to ports and ferry operators.

They were forced to act after details of the confidential circular issued by
Transec - the security division of the department of transport - were leaked to
the press.

The memo referred to a recent warning from the French and Dutch authorities of a
"possible terrorist act" against ferries, although it concluded there was no
"credible information or intelligence" to support the claim.

Nevertheless, it reminded recipients of the need to maintain "increased
vigilance" in the current "heightened security environment". Fears of the
heightened threat were featured prominently on yesterday morning's BBC news
bulletins.

Security concerns were said to centre on the fear that terrorists could drive a
lorry packed with explosives on to a roll-on roll-off ferry. They followed hard
on the heels of Tony Blair's speech on Monday night when he said British
intelligence was receiving daily warnings of new threats and predicted the
country would have to pay a painful price to defeat terrorism.

Last night, at a media reception in London, the prime minister said he told the
press: "If you are given a story, you want to run it but on the other hand you
are making a judgment too about what is responsible to say about a particular
event."

A man claiming to be Osama bin Laden warned US allies in an audio tape aired
yesterday that they would be targets of new attacks if they continued to back
the "White House gang of butchers". In the tape bin Laden hailed anti-western
attacks in Bali, Kuwait, Yemen, and Jordan, and last month's hostage-taking in
Moscow.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 13, 2002, Wednesday

FIREFIGHTERS' STRIKE: NO PLAN TO COVER TERRORIST ATTACK, ADMIT MINISTERS

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 404 words


MINISTERS WERE holding emergency discussions last night on how to secure public
safety during the fire strikes.

On the eve of the walkout, Downing Street admitted there were still no firm
plans in place for dealing with a catastrophe.

John Prescott, the Deputy Prime Minister, met Andy Gilchrist, leader of the Fire
Brigades Union, to clarify the safety arrangements. One important issue is
whether firefighters will be made available in the event of a terrorist attack

The Prime Minister's spokesman emphasised the meeting with Mr Gilchrist had been
called "not to discuss pay but purely to focus on safety". He said the issue was
"particularly germane" considering current security fears.

He warned that the armed forces could only provide a "second-best service" in
the absence of trained firefighters and added: "I don't think anyone should be
under any illusion that by going on strike and withdrawing emergency services
you put lives at risk."

Attention is centring on a TUC code of conduct, drawn up in 1979, under which
strikers agree to suspend action temporarily during national crises. The
Government pointed out that the ambulance service maintained a so- called "blue
-light service" during its national dispute 12 years ago.

David Davis, the shadow Deputy Prime Minister, said: "Given that the Fire
Brigades Union has admitted that, in the event of a national security incident,
firefighters will not be able to respond in a co-ordinated fashion', the
Government must explain how it plans to protect public safety if such an
incident occurred.

"Since the beginning of this crisis, we have been pressing the Government to
train military personnel on the use of fire engines.

"They should end their spurious excuses and commence such training immediately,
as this strike action may continue until Christmas Eve."

Downing Street's emergencies committee, codenamed Cobra, will start sitting
round the clock as soon as the firefighters walk out.

Downing Street said a "huge amount" of contingency planning had taken place on
how to cope with a national strike.

All 999 calls will be routed through a military control centre being set up by
the Ministry of Defence. Military operators will consult senior fire, ambulance
and police officers at a secret location before passing on details to crews at
bases. Cobra will constantly monitor the response to emergency calls.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 13, 2002, Wednesday

LETTER: BLAIR HAS SET US UP AS A TARGET FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Ivan Leslie

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 297 words


Sir: Tony Blair informs us that we should expect terror attacks in this country,
and we should be vigilant. How? If some nutcase wants to explode a nuclear bomb
or gas us, what are we supposed to do about it?

I am angry that Tony Blair has chosen to set this country up as a target for
terrorist attacks by grovelling to President Bush and endorsing so strongly his
warmongering tactics. Had we acted in unison with the rest of Europe in
condemning the 11 September attack then we would not be in this position.

Our country has known terrorist atrocities for many years, but eventually we had
no option but to do something to stop the killing. That "something" was to talk
to the terrorist groups. However odious it may seem, this was the only solution.
If someone is angry with you, it is important to know why they are angry, and do
something about it. This is how society works.

As far as I can make out the reason bin Laden became angry was America's
complete failure to get to grips with the Palestinian problem and the fact that
America had troops in Saudi Arabia. America was arrogant in its dealings with
the Arab states, ignoring their sensitivities. Hence 11 September. Whilst we
must condemn this evil act, and act decisively with UN backing, we know in our
heart of hearts that tit-for-tat retaliation is never the answer. How many
innocent people must die before we have satisfied our lust for revenge?

Tony Blair is in danger of committing the ultimate crime of leadership, failure
to protect the people of Britain. I will not sit around and allow my family to
be gassed, nuked or poisoned. Either we as a country must regain our sanity, or
many will have to think seriously about leaving this sinking ship.

IVAN LESLIE

Ilfracombe, Devon

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 13, 2002, Wednesday

BIN LADEN: WE WILL ATTACK BRITAIN;
 TAPE COULD PROVE TERROR LEADER IS ALIVE

BYLINE: Nathan Yates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 391 words

HIGHLIGHT: THREAT: bin Laden


OSAMA bin Laden last night warned that al-Qaeda terrorists were ready to attack
Britain.

A man identified as the Saudi-born extremist made the threat against citizens in
the UK and other United States allied countries. He also hailed the Bali
bombing, the Moscow theatre siege, an attack on an oil tanker in Yemen and
shootings in Kuwait and Jordan as victories for al-Qaeda.

The taped statement in Arabic said al-Qaeda would attack anyone who backed the
"White House gang of butchers".

Britain, France, Italy, Canada, Germany and Australia were all named as targets.

It warned: "If you don't like looking at your dead remember our dead, including
the children in Iraq.

"The road to safety starts with stopping aggression. We had warned Australia
about its participation in Afghanistan. It ignored the warning until it woke up
to the sound of explosions in Bali."

The voice delivering the speech broadcast on Arabic TV station al-Jazeera bore a
clear resemblance to bin Laden.

US intelligence experts are analysing it to confirm whether it is the terror
network leader.

If it is authentic, it will be the first conclusive proof bin Laden survived
allied attacks on Afghanistan.

Praising the terrorists who killed nearly 200 people in the Bali bombing and
carried out other recent atrocities he said: "These are only a reaction
undertaken by sons who are zealous in the defence of their religion.

"They are in response to what Bush, the pharaoh of the age, is doing by killing
our sons in Iraq and what America's ally Israel is doing, bombarding houses with
women and old people and children inside with American planes.

"Our people in Palestine are being killed, are being subjected to the worse kind
of suffering for almost a century now.

"If we defend our people in Palestine the world is disturbed and allied against
Muslims under the banner of combating terrorism."

It was feared the audio tape was another propoganda coup for bin Laden whose
whereabouts remains a mystery.

The last evidence he was alive was a video tape believed to have been filmed in
November, 2001. In another tape aired last December he appeared gaunt and
possibly wounded.

Sean McCormack, spokesman for President Bush's National Security Council, said:
"We've seen the reports on the tape and we're looking into it."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               November 13, 2002

Appeals for calm as Britain is warned of ferry terror attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 490 words


The Government last night took the unusual step of releasing its latest security
advice to ports and ferry operators in an attempt to calm fears of an imminent
terrorist attack.



Ministers were forced to act after details of the confidential circular issued
by Transec - the security division of the Department of Transport - were leaked
to the Press.

The memo referred to a recent warning from the French and Dutch authorities of a
possible terrorist act against ferries. The Dutch alert may be particularly
significant for this region because of ferries plying North Sea routes such as
Hull Rotterdam and Hull Zeebrugge - although the memo concluded there was no
credible information or intelligence to support the claim.

Nevertheless, it reminded recipients of the need to maintain increased vigilance
in the current heightened security environment.

A copy of the circular was obtained by Lloyd's List and featured prominently in
early morning news bulletins on the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

It is feared that terrorists could drive a lorry packed with explosives onto a
ferry.

It followed hard on the heels of Tony Blair's speech on Monday night in which he
said British intelligence was receiving daily warnings and predicting the
country would have to pay a painful price to defeat terrorism.

However, with Ministers anxious to avoid creating mass panic, the Prime
Minister's official spokesman has urged journalists to exercise care in the way
they reported warnings.

There is a lot of intelligence around. Every piece of it in the hands of certain
journalists could, no doubt, lead the news.

But I think we have to ask whether that is, in the circumstances we find
ourselves, necessarily a helpful way to conduct the debate, the spokesman said.

The intervention by Downing Street again reflected the difficult balance that
Ministers have to strike between reminding people to remain vigilant and
avoiding panic.

Only least week the Home Office withdrew advice issued in error - warning of the
threat of a poison gas or so-called dirty bomb attack - to replace it with a
more general warning.

The text of the Transec warning released by the Department of Transport, said:
Despite the recent warnings from the French and Dutch authorities of a possible
terrorist act against ferries, we do not assess that there is any credible
information or intelligence in support. Threat levels to British maritime
interests remain unchanged.

The warning continues: However, due to the heightened security environment
generally, we would remind you of the need to maintain increased vigilance, to
continue to operate the recently enhanced security measures and to report any
significant developments to the Transec duty office.

A spokesman for P&O Ferries said that the firm always adhered to national
guidelines on safety and had been operating in a high state of security for some
time.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 14, 2002, Thursday

Bin Laden 'alive' and threatening attack on Britain in terror tape

BYLINE: By Toby Harnden in Washington

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 775 words

BRITAIN has been named as a target in a new taped threat that the CIA said last
night was almost certainly the voice of Osama bin Laden.

Reacting to suggestions that bin Laden probably was still alive, President
George W Bush said the world had been put "on notice" for further terrorist
attacks.

The recording comes just days after Tony Blair warned that al-Qa'eda was seeking
to carry out ever more dramatic attacks.

The CIA and the US National Security Agency was analysing the four-minute tape,
released through al-Jazeera, the Arab television network, and comparing it with
existing "voiceprints" of the al-Qa'eda leader. Officials said the initial
assessment was that it was authentic.

Bin Laden had not been heard from since the battle of Tora Bora in Afghanistan
almost a year ago and some senior US officials had believed he was dead.

There were intense fears in Washington that the message, which specifically
mentioned British citizens as a target, could have been the signal for an
imminent terrorist outrage and possibly even contained a codeword ordering an
al-Qa'eda cell to activate a plan.

Mr Bush said: "The message is a serious message and it should remind all of
America and remind our friends and allies that there is an active enemy that
continues to hate, is willing to use murder as a way to achieve their goals.

"Whoever put this tape out has put the world on notice yet again that we're at
war and that we need to take these messages very seriously. And we will."

If the voice is confirmed to be that of bin Laden it would be proof he was alive
less than three weeks ago because the message referred to the ending of the
siege in a Moscow theatre on Oct 26.

The tape was handed to al-Jazeera in Pakistan, where it has long been suspected
that bin Laden had taken refuge close to the Afghan border.

As well as Britain, the taped voice also threatened France, Italy, Germany,
Canada and Australia.

Six days after the September 11 terrorist attacks, Mr Bush declared that bin
Laden was wanted "dead or alive".

The previous day, his vice-president Dick Cheney had said that he would
willingly accept bin Laden's "head on a platter". Some senior Bush
administration officials were dismayed at the comments, believing they
personalised the war against terrorism and opened Mr Bush to criticism should
bin Laden prove more elusive than hoped.

Yesterday, Mr Bush bristled at the suggestion that bin Laden should already have
been captured or killed. "We're making great progress in the war on terror," he
said.

"Slowly but surely we are dismantling the terrorist network. We're finding their
sanctuaries. We're holding people to account.

"Our coalition of freedom-loving nations is up to 90 now. There is an
international manhunt on. We'll chase these people down, one at a time. It
doesn't matter how long it takes; we'll find them and bring them to justice."

CIA analysts worked through the night to come to a definitive conclusion about
whether the voice was bin Laden's. The analysis uses samples of speech from a
person to create a "library" of vocal tones and frequencies.

These samples are compared electronically with the contents of a tape to assess
whether it is the same voice.

An official said: "It's likely that it's bin Laden's voice, but it cannot be
said with absolute certainty at this point."

Several independent experts identified the voice as bin Laden's last night.
Matsumi Suzuki, a Japanese acoustics specialist, said that he was 99.9 per cent
certain that it was the Saudi terrorist. He said that the speaker's weak
enunciation of certain words was typical of someone suffering from a chronic
internal organ disease. Bin Laden is known to have kidney disease.

Mr Suzuki said that a comparison with earlier recordings suggested that bin
Laden's health had deteriorated.

The CIA official added: "It's an attempt to boost morale among the rank-and-file
and let them know that some of the top leaders who they haven't heard from are
still around. But it also could signal future attacks."

The message could give added impetus to opponents of war with Iraq who say it is
a diversion from the real objective of the war on terrorism - closing down
al-Qa'eda.

But the Bush administration appears committed to war with Iraq and the
re-emergence of bin Laden, even if followed by another attack on America, would
probably complicate but not derail military plans.

Gen Richard Myers, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, said the US had "lost
a little momentum" in the battle against al-Qa'eda. He called for further
efforts to shore up the Afghan government.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 14, 2002

CLEAR ADVICE NEEDED ON TERRORIST ATTACKS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 96 words


WHAT are we to make of Tony Blair's warning that we should be alert to terrorist
attacks but still go about our daily business?

Such an alarming statement makes it almost impossible to live normally because
we cannot help but be afraid of such veiled advice. If the Government has any
information at all they should make it public. It is better that a few false
alarms are called than hundreds or even thousands of people killed because civil
servants didn't want to unduly worry the electorate. Be clear and then we can
plan our lives.

Richard Low, Stirling

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 14, 2002, Thursday

Call-out only for terror attacks

BYLINE: Christine Buckley Industrial Editor

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 279 words


Firefighters' strikes will be suspended only in the event of a serious terrorist
incident, the Fire Brigades Union said yesterday after talks over emergency
cover with the Deputy Prime Minister.

An official said that contact would be kept open between John Prescott and Andy
Gilchrist, the FBU general secretary, to enable a strike to be halted
immediately if an emergency occurred. However, the union said that it would have
to be a "catastrophic" terrorist attack and that accidents such as train crashes
were unlikely to qualify.

Mr Gilchrist also warned the Government that, although firefighters were
"humanitarians" and would want to help on an ad hoc basis, it would be very
difficult to mobilise strikers suddenly.

The Government has been pressing the FBU for more widespread emergency cover so
that smaller incidents will be included. It has tried to insist that the union
should provide this cover to comply with a TUC code of conduct on safety
provision. This was drawn up 20 years ago and says: "Unions...should, where
necessary, make arrangements in advance and with due notice, in consultation and
preferably by agreement with the employer, for the maintenance by their members
of supplies and services essential to the health or safety of the community..."

Earlier in the dispute the Government had said that this would prohibit any
strike by the FBU. However, the TUC has made clear that it fully supports the
FBU's campaign and would not seek to interpret the code to censure the union.

Mr Gilchrist accused the Government of "hypocritical concerns over fire safety"
after the Queen's Speech failed to include a fire safety Act.


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 15, 2002

Hospital chiefs: We're ready for terror attacks

SECTION: News :Health :Hospitals, Pg.12

LENGTH: 234 words


HOSPITALS in Bristol have said they are ready to deal with a major terrorist
incident, following a report which said that most NHS organisations would not
cope.

The National Audit report, Facing the Challenge, was carried out to determine
the reliability and readiness of NHS emergency planning.

It looked at acute NHS hospital trusts and found that although many think they
have prepared for a major incident on the scale of a biological, chemical,
radiological or even nuclear attack, staff have not had the necessary training
or equipment.

However, the NHS trusts which run Bristol's three acute hospitals and ambulance
service have rejected the claims.

They said that because of consistently high levels of training and awareness of
the issues, especially in the wake of September 11, that they can reassure the
public of their ability to react.

Ben Bennett, general manager of United Bristol Healthcare Trusts which runs the
BRI, said: "We are confident that we would be able to deal with any incident as
and when it happened.We don't work in isolation on this and we are all in
constant contact with the Department of Health and is a process which is
on-going."

But Liam Fox shadow health secretary, said: "The Government has failed to make
sure that the NHS is fully prepared to cope with disasters.

"Yet the risks have increased significantly since September 11."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           November 15, 2002, Friday

MANY HOSPITALS NOT READY FOR TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 185 words


A YEAR after September 11 almost a quarter of hospitals are not fully ready to
cope with a biological attack and 37 per cent are ill-prepared for a radioactive
incident, it emerged today.

The National Audit Office today published a report looking at emergency planning
by NHS acute trusts, ambulance trusts and health authorities across England.

It found there had been improvements in major incident plans since the terrorist
attacks on the World Trade Centre.

The NHS is ready to cope with plane and rail crashes, but there are still gaps,
particularly in dealing with biological, radiological and nuclear incidents or
those involving 500 casualties or more.

It highlighted weaknesses in planning, testing, training, equipment provision
and communications.

Responding to the report, Chief Medical Officer Sir Liam Donaldson said: "The
NHS is better prepared than it has ever been, although there is still much work
to do."

He said specialists were being trained to lead a local response to a major
incident and there would be more acting out of different scenarios to test
plans.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           November 15, 2002, Friday

DEFENCELESS;
 HOSPITALS OPEN TO TERROR ATTACKS'

BYLINE: Thomas Martin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 321 words


A QUARTER of hospitals could not cope with a biological attack by terrorists, a
new report has revealed.

More than a year after September 11 many hospitals are not prepared for a
radioactive incident.

The National Audit Office today published a report looking at emergency planning
by NHS acute trusts, ambulance trusts and health authorities across England.

It found there have been improvements in major incident plans since the
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre.

The NHS is ready to cope with plane and rail crashes, but there are still gaps,
particularly in dealing with biological, radiological and nuclear incidents or
those involving 500 casualties or more. Chief medical officer Sir Liam Donaldson
said: "The NHS is better prepared than it has ever been, although there is still
much work to do."

He said specialists were being trained to lead a local response to a major
incident and there would be more acting out of different scenarios to test
plans.

Despite a pounds 5m government investment for bodysuits and decontamination
facilities, half said their equipment was poor or very poor.

Sir John Bourn, head of the NAO, said there had been improvements in NHS
planning for major incidents but more progress was needed.

He said: "The nature of the threats potentially facing us means that the
Department of Health and the chief executives of hospital, ambulance and primary
care trusts need to continue to act with determination to improve their planning
and readiness.

Sir Liam said the report showed 97% of health authorities and 98% of acute
trusts were prepared or well prepared to tackle a major incident.

He said he was confident the NHS would rise to the challenge of improving its
planning for a major incident involving hazardous substances.

But no country in the world could say it could easily deal with an incident
involving 500 major casualties.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               November 15, 2002

BRITAIN COULD NOT COPE WITH TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: David Wooding Whitehall Editor

LENGTH: 406 words


    Medics 'will be in chaos'

    BRITAIN'S emergency services would collapse in chaos if terrorists launched
a doomsday attack on a city, a shock report reveals today.

    Almost half of hospitals admit they could not cope if a "dirty" nuclear bomb
was unleashed.

    And ambulance crews' readiness has DETERIORATED since they were judged "not
well prepared to handle mass casualties, biological, radiological and nuclear
incidents" ten months ago.

    Half-baked

    Last night Dr James Robertson, who drew up the National Audit Office report,
warned an incident with 500 or more casualties would "seriously challenge" the
service.

    He said: "Everywhere we went we found deficiencies and lack of preparation."

    The study last month found ONE THIRD of ambulances are ill-equipped for
chemical incidents, while FOUR IN TEN are not primed for a biological or nuclear
crisis.

    Only half tested their radios monthly and many had not passed their
emergency plans to fire chiefs.

    Meanwhile, a FIFTH of hospitals could not deal with chemical or biological
weapons. ONE IN SEVEN would struggle if faced with mass casualties.

    The authors were stunned to find medics hampered by a lack of training,
shortage of equipment - including protective suits, gas masks and
decontamination gear - and half-baked plans.

    Many NHS trusts have failed to upgrade their rapid-reaction units despite
September 11.

    Disgrace

    The report warns a strike on London would spell catastrophe with cover for
all types of incident rated "poor" or "very poor" in a third of hospitals.

    One in five of the capital's hospitals admitted their ability to cope with a
chemical attack was poor. Two out of five said they were ill-equipped to deal
with radioactive incidents.

    The report makes 23 recommendations. And last night Chief Medical Officer
Sir Liam Donaldson admitted action is needed. He said: "It is impossible to give
complete reassurance for every scenario.

    "Most health service managers will never have encountered a nuclear
incident, whether by terrorist or an accident.

    "We're in new territory here. We need to move up a phase."

    Meanwhile, Tony Blair plans to use wartime tactics to shock the public into
preparing for a terror strike.

    Posters will be plastered across Britain in the New Year with instructions
on surviving a gas, chemical or nuclear attack.

    Rescue teams and hospitals will also stage regular drills.


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 15, 2002, Friday

Hospitals fail to prepare for a terrorist attack

BYLINE: Oliver Wright Health Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 9

LENGTH: 527 words


Nearly a quarter of hospitals across Britain are unprepared for a chemical,
biological or radioactive terrorist attack, a study by the National Audit Office
(NAO) has found.

More than a year after September 11, a third of hospitals have failed to test
their plan for a major disaster and many trusts admit that they have not trained
staff properly in decontamination techniques.

In London, where the threat of attack is deemed greatest, the ambulance service
told the audit office that it did not have the resources to deal with mass
casualties -anything over 500 people.

"Acute trusts have identified some major gaps in preparedness, specifically in
relation to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats. Reasons
included lack of equipment, training and expertise," the report says.

It looked at emergency planning across England and found that there had been
some improvements in major incident plans since the September 11 attacks. But it
concludes that much more work is needed to ensure that the "deficiencies in NHS
planning arrangements" are rectified.

"We found good practice, but this needs to be identified and spread more
systematically to address the deficiencies in the way the NHS plans and prepares
for major incidents," the report says.

"Actual incidents before September 11 support the view that NHS trusts were able
to cope with the range of major incident experienced to date. However, visits to
a small number of trusts showed they had all overstated in key areas their
degree of preparedness."

By February this year one fifth of health authorities said that they were not
well prepared for radiological incidents. Four fifths had not tested their plans
for radiological or nuclear incidents and a third said their training for such
events was poor or very poor. One fifth of acute trusts were not well prepared
for a chemical disaster, a third were ill-prepared for biological and
radiological incidents and half not ready for a nuclear event.

By October 22 per cent of acute trusts were not well prepared for a biological
incident and 37 per cent not fully ready to deal with a radioactive one.

Despite a Pounds 5 million government investment for bodysuits and
decontamination facilities, half said that their equipment was poor or very
poor.

Sir John Bourn, head of the National Audit Office, said: "The nature of the
threats now potentially facing us means that the Department of Health and the
chief executives of hospital, ambulance and primary care trusts need to continue
to act with determination to improve their planning and readiness."

The Government's Chief Medical Officer, Professor Sir Liam Donaldson, welcomed
the report. "While it is impossible to protect the public against every possible
incident, the NHS is better prepared. In particular, the report makes clear that
we need better training, scenario planning and joint agency working."

Liam Fox, the Shadow Health Secretary, said: "The NAO has exposed that those
plans that do exist are tested infrequently or inadequately. It is disgraceful
that these shortcomings have not been dealt with properly."


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 15, 2002

West unprepared for terror attacks

SECTION: News :Other :Others, Pg.2

LENGTH: 173 words


MANY of the West's hospitals are not ready for major emergencies, including
nuclear and biological incident casualties, an official report warns today.

The worrying news comes with Britain on red alert for terrorist attacks and
amidst a national firefighters' strike.

The National Audit Office says hospital bosses must take immediate steps to
identify problems in their major incident plans.

Tony Blair has warned of fears of devastating terrorist attacks on British
cities in the run-up to Christmas.

There are fears that chemical attacks could force the evacuation of thousands of
people from West towns and cities.

Today's report shows just half the acute health trusts in the South-west are
well-prepared for nuclear incidents.

And 60 per cent of West ambulance services are not properly prepared for
nuclear, radiological, chemical and mass casualty incidents.

Shadow Health Secretary Dr Liam Fox said: "The Government has failed to make
sure that the NHS is fully prepared to cope with disasters."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               November 16, 2002

Hospitals 'Ready For Attack By Terrorists'

BYLINE: David Perry

SECTION: News; Politics; MPs; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 486 words


Hospitals across the North and North-east claimed last night to be better
prepared than many in England for mass casualties from a terrorist attack.
Despite a perceived lesser risk than in southern England, the NHS in Tayside,
Grampian and the Highlands all claimed to be capable of handling mass
casualties. This followed a report on the position in England which found 11% of
health trusts felt they were "not well prepared" and only a third felt they
could cope.

And the Scottish Ambulance Service claimed that, unlike its counterparts south
of the border, it is equipped to handle the victims of chemical, biological or
nuclear attack.

The deficiencies in England were highlighted in a National Audit Office report
which revealed widespread inadequacies, despite attempts to increase
preparedness after the September 11 attacks in the US.

The report revealed that half of the hospitals in England could not cope if
terrorists exploded a conventional bomb spreading nuclear contamination - a
possibility raised in Home Office warnings hastily withdrawn earlier this week.

And a third of English ambulances were ill-equipped for chemical, biological or
nuclear incidents.

A spokesman for the Scottish Ambulance Service said it had supplies of
protective suits and decontamination units stored at strategic locations around
Scotland and suggested it was better placed as a national service than smaller,
locally-organised ambulance services farther south.

Grampian University Hospitals Trust said it had regular "desktop" practices
handling major incidents and had in recent years held a live exercise coping
with 300 "casualties" from a ferry boat explosion.

A spokesman said it was the designated hospital for incidents involving
radioactivity but, as it was the only major accident and emergency unit in a
region with airports, heliports, a fishing fleet and an offshore oil industry,
it also had to be ready to deal with major incidents of all sorts.

He said many hospitals in England would be relying on help from neighbouring
facilities, which was not available in the North.

NHS Tayside said it had been preparing for a considerable time to ensure its
response to a major incident was "as effective as possible".

In a statement, it said this was an ongoing process and that its plans were
"regularly reviewed, strengthened and updated to take account of changing
circumstances and new intelligence".

And in the Highlands, a spokesman said that, with the former Dounreay nuclear
plant in its area, it had always been prepared to deal with a major radiation
incident.

Raigmore Hospital in Inverness has a radiation decontamination unit.
Decontamination equipment has been delivered to other hospitals and staff have
been trained in its use.

He said that, with other emergency services, it had taken part in Exercise
Lairig Ghru in February to test arrangements.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               November 16, 2002

Hospitals 'Ready For Terror Attack'

BYLINE: David Perry

SECTION: News; Politics; MPs; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 282 words


Hospitals in the North and North-east claimed last night to be better prepared
than many in England for mass casualties from a terrorist attack. Despite a
perceived lesser risk than in southern England, the NHS in Tayside, Grampian and
the Highlands claimed to be capable of handling mass casualties. This followed a
report on the position in England which found 11% of health trusts felt they
were "not well prepared" and only a third felt they could cope.

And the Scottish Ambulance Service said it was equipped to handle the victims of
chemical, biological or nuclear attack.

The deficiencies in England were highlighted in a National Audit Office report
which revealed widespread inadequacies, despite attempts to increase
preparedness after the September 11 attacks in the US.

The report revealed that half of the hospitals in England could not cope if
terrorists exploded a conventional bomb spreading nuclear contamination - a
possibility raised in Home Office warnings hastily withdrawn earlier this week.

And a third of English ambulances were ill-equipped for chemical, biological or
nuclear incidents.

A spokesman for the Scottish Ambulance Service said it had supplies of
protective suits and decontamination units stored at locations around Scotland.

Grampian University Hospitals Trust said it had regular "desktop" practices
handling major incidents.

In the Highlands, a spokesman said that, with the former Dounreay nuclear plant
in its area, it had always been prepared to deal with a major radiation
incident. Raigmore Hospital in Inverness has a radiation decontamination unit
and decontamination equipment has been delivered to other hospitals.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 16, 2002, Saturday

Airports still open to attack More than a year after the September 11 attacks,
British airports remain vulnerable to terrorist activity, says aviation expert
Chris Yates

BYLINE: BY CHRIS YATES

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 591 words

Given this week's warnings from the Home Office that Britain's transport centres
are likely targets for possible terrorist attack - and the chilling re-emergence
of Osama bin Laden - one would expect that the security of flights would be of
paramount importance.

We have been told repeatedly that British airports are among the most secure in
the world since the September 11 attacks.

The reality is that fundamental flaws remain. If they are not addressed quickly
and effectively, these flaws could be exploited to devastating effect.

There have been numerous security failings in the past year. These include two
major airside robberies, the discovery of a people-smuggling ring operating with
the support of airline and airport security personnel at Heathrow, and countless
examples of journalists gaining sensitive jobs with false documentation at
airports across the country.

Such failings have exposed the Achilles heel of the security procedures in place
at British airports. While much effort has been put into baggage screening and
the confiscation of all sharp items from passengers, recent Daily Telegraph
investigations have shown that some knives are still getting through and that
cockpit doors are being left unlocked (and, in some cases, open) during flights.

What is more worrying, the back door to aircraft effectively remains wide open
since people can, and have, simply walked through perimeter gate posts at
airports and boarded planes unchallenged. They have also been able to obtain
security clearance to work in the most sensitive parts of our airports without
appropriate vetting.

After a spate of such incidents earlier this year, the Government announced a
review of security procedures at airports. That review, completed last month,
fell short of what is required to ensure that terrorists do not get aboard
aircraft. For the most part the review's emphasis was on preventing organised
crime and ensuring better policing at airports. While such measures are welcome,
they do not necessarily address the fundamental issues.

Neither did the review give detailed consideration of the direction from which
future threats to the safety of travellers may come. Many in the aviation
security industry say it is impossible to determine with any degree of accuracy
what the next threat may be. But that is only partially true.

In the aftermath of September 11, many people suggested that the age of the
suicide hijacker could not have been foreseen. Had the available intelligence
been used properly, it could have been foreseen and guarded against.

The report also did not address the appallingly low levels of pay received by
security staff, over which BAA operatives at seven UK airports are planning a
series of strikes beginning on November 28.

Security should be constantly reviewed and updated. There should be better
sharing of intelligence between the intelligence community, law enforcement and
aviation security personnel and in support of modernisation, where necessary,
improved screening equipment in airports designed to stop offensive weapons and
explosives being smuggled aboard aircraft. There should be proactive rather than
reactive steps.

This requires the will of both politicians and the industry continually to
invest in the best technologies available to meet current and, more
specifically, future threats. Only then will we be able to say that we have the
best aviation security system in the world.

Chris Yates is aviation security editor of 'Jane's Transport' magazine

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          November 16, 2002, Saturday

FBI WARNS OF SPECTACULAR' TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 182 words


THE FBI warned Americans last night that al-Qaeda may be planning a
"spectacular" terrorist attack intended to damage the US economy and inflict
large-scale casualties.

The White House said Americans should remain vigilant, although it left the
alert status unchanged.

"The American people are in many ways the first line of defence," said national
security adviser Condoleeza Rice. She said the latest warning contained no new
information, calling it instead a "summary of intelligence as we know it."

White House spokesman Scott McClellan cited the lack of any intelligence about
specific time, date, location or method of possible attack as the reason for
keeping the nation's official terrorist threat level at code yellow, the middle
of a five-level scale of risk developed after September 11.

"We continue to be on high levels of alert, we continue to take additional
precautions," McClellan said.

The warning was unusual because of its language.

Rice said much was being done behind the scenes to protect "critical
infrastructure" from possible attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 16, 2002

West 'not ready for terror attack';
 Ambulances and hospitals slated in survey

BYLINE: Ruth Wood

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.2

LENGTH: 307 words


AMBULANCE services in the West are the worst prepared in the country to cope
with the threat of a terrorist bomb or chemical attack, a shocking report
revealed yesterday.

Six months after the Twin Towers attacks, the South West was the only region
where paramedics were still not ready for a disaster resulting in mass
casualties, according to a survey by the National Audit Office (NAO).

Just 40 per cent of West ambulance services were properly prepared for a serious
nuclear, chemical or radiological incident, making them the least prepared in
the country.

And only 60 per cent were ready for a biological warfare threat of the kind
hinted at by the Government in recent days.

As NAO chiefs moved to stem alarm yesterday, Shadow Health Secretary Dr Liam Fox
said the public had every right to be "disturbed" by the findings.

"This report is quite shocking," he said yesterday after visiting an ambulance
station in Bristol.

"There is clearly a huge gap between the urgency of ministerial warnings about a
potential imminent terrorist attack and the action that has been taken to
protect the population.

"You would think, with the Avonmouth chemical industry, a major airport in
Bristol, the chemical warfare base at Porton Down and nuclear power stations in
Somerset and South Gloucestershire, that the West would be better prepared for a
disaster.

"Obviously, it would be quite wrong for people to be panicked but we are talking
about our ability to intervene and save lives."

West hospitals appear to be better prepared. In February, three quarters were
ready for a biological or chemical incident and 62 per cent for a radiological
one.

But only half were adequately prepared for a nuclear disaster and the proportion
ready for a mass casualty incident was the lowest in the country.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                               November 17, 2002

WITH THE EXCEPTION OF A MAJOR TERRORIST ATTACK, THE PROSPECT OF A COLLAPSE IN
BRITAIN'S RUNAWAY HOUSING MARKET NOW POSES THE GREATEST THREAT TO THE UK
ECONOMY.

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 706 words


With the exception of a major terrorist attack, the prospect of a collapse in
Britain's runaway housing market now poses the greatest threat to the UK
economy.

The Bank of England finally admitted as much last week, when it raised the
spectre of an abrupt slowdown in house price inflation, currently running at an
unsustainable 20% to 30% a year, and the subsequent knock-on effects this would
have on consumer spending.

Residential property is central to the UK economy: two-thirds of households own
their houses, which means most people have the bulk of their wealth tied up in
their home.

Many homeowners have cashed in on the price surge by remortgaging their
properties: close to 6% of total post-tax income in the UK now comes from equity
released from the housing market. Most of the cash generated is being spent on
consumer goods and services.

The economy would barely have grown this year without the support provided by
the housing market, a worrying thought given that it is difficult to see what
will take its place when the bubble finally bursts.

Stable or falling house prices would mean no more capital gains to be spent;
even a small drop in prices would push thousands of households into negative
equity (where the value of a house is worth less than an outstanding mortgage),
especially those with remortgaged homes, further dampening consumption.

The Bank acknowledged the "enormous uncertainties" surrounding the evolution of
the residential property market in its Inflation Report last week.

Though its central forecast is for house prices to stop growing in two years'
time, the Bank was forced to admit it does not really know what will happen.

Given the importance of the housing market to the overall economy, this means
that the Bank's other forecasts are equally uncertain - especially its belief
that strong domestic demand will continue to compensate for a depressed global
economy, as well as its forecasts for inflation.

Largely because of the conditions in the housing market, the Bank now expects
consumer price inflation to breach its 2.5% target within the next few months,
before edging down again sometime towards the middle of next year. The Bank
predicts inflation will subsequently move back above target by the end of its
two-year forecasting horizon.

For the second month in a row, inflation measured on the RPIX index of retail
prices excluding mortgage payments was higher than expected. In the year to
October, prices rose 2.3% compared with 2.1% in September.

Most economists now believe interest rates will stay on hold for the next few
months as the Bank starts worrying about containing inflation again.

Rising house prices have been the key driver behind the rise in the inflation
rate, even though asset prices are not directly included in the retail price
index. Instead, the index includes a "housing depreciation" component which
captures the impact of higher house prices on the cost of living.

The housing component, which is based on figures for house prices produced by
the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister, rather than indices from building
societies such as the Halifax or websites such as Rightmove, registered a 16%
year-on-year rise in October.

Higher house prices boosted inflation by half a percentage point in October,
according to GFC Economics, a contribution which is set to rise to a full
percentage point by the end of this year, equivalent to more than a third of
total inflation.

But a rise in unemployment may be starting to dampen house prices. After staying
surprisingly subdued since the beginning of the year, jobless numbers are now
rising strongly. Unemployment as gauged by the International Labour Organisation
measure surged 45,000 in the three months to September while employment fell
36,000.

Massive job cuts in financial services have started taking their toll on the
wealthier parts of London. House prices have already dropped by between 9% and
10% in Kensington and Chelsea and are also falling in other fashionable
boroughs.

Mounting job losses suggest that the collapse in the housing market may come
sooner rather than later. Now is not the time to buy an expensive house.

Allister Heath


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2002 Sunday Business Group

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                               November 17, 2002

Superterrorism: where next?;As MI5 stops a terrorist attack on Britain and world
leaders issue warnings of more threats against civilian populations, arms
inspectors prepare to re-enter Iraq to search for weapons of mass destruction

BYLINE: By James Cusick

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1738 words


It is the term now used in intelligence circles to describe the biggest threat
to the West. The rise of superterrorism has given fanatical groups the power
once held only by nation states - and the intelligence services know that it is
only a matter of time before it claims its next victims.

It was a threat acknowledged in plain, precise and painfully direct language by
Interpol's secretary-general, Ronald Noble, in an interview last week with the
newspaper Le Figaro: "All intelligence experts are agreed that al-Qaeda is
preparing a major terrorist operation, simultaneous attacks that would not
target the US alone but several countries at the same time. Something worrying
is going on."

Something worrying indeed. Barely days later, British intelligence thwarted a
plot by an al-Qaeda-linked group to release cyanide gas on London's Underground
rail system. On Tuesday, the day after the three men accused of masterminding
the attack made their first court appearance, Tony Blair was repeating
Interpol's warning in his Mansion House address: "What preoccupies decision
-makers now is a different danger. It is extremism driven by fanaticism,
personified either in terrorist groups or in rogue states."

John Gearson at Kings College, London, traces the birth of superterrorism to six
years before the September 11 attack, when the Japanese cult Aum Shinrikyo used
sarin gas to kill 12 people on the Tokyo underground, with a further 5000
affected. Gearson states the effect was that "the way in which terrorism was
understood changed for ever. For the first time an independent substate group,
acting without patronage or protection, had managed to deploy biochemical
weapons on a significant scale".

Gearson argues a technological threshold had been crossed with terrorists able
to pose threats to states that previously only other states had posed.
Superterrorism had arrived.

For Dr Magnus Ranstorp, acting head of the centre for the study of terrorism and
political violence at the University of St Andrews, there is now wide
international appreciation that things have indeed changed. "There used to be
rules of the game: coded warnings, limited casualties. Now there is lengthy
planning, a trajectory towards higher casualties - and these operations are
technologically sophisticated with advanced command and communications
structures."

Ranstorp says that if governments are to deal with the new breed of terrorists
who have "hyper-mobility", they need a real-time (immediate) reaction to
warnings. "How do governments operationalise their response to intelligence? How
do they react in time? The simple reality is that terrorists move faster than
the security forces - and this is now happening on a global scale. And there is
also co-operation between various groups. Look at the recent links between
groups in Columbia and the IRA."

In response to this new threat, Blair told the Mansion House guests that the
international community "has to work together to ensure the safest possible
transport systems and tough laws and proper inter-agency co-operation".

But what Blair didn't admit, according to Ranstorp, was the prevailing view now
inside intelligence and security regimes of the international community: "It is
no longer a matter of if, but when."

For Ranstorp, despite the array of international intelligence sources, despite
the increasing ability of communications to analyse "intercepts" (communications
between suspected terrorists) and despite the widening international coalition
between state intelligence organisations: "We, here in Britain and elsewhere,
need to accept that the traditional notion of one country being a safer place
than another, or a safe haven in which to exist, is no longer applicable."

In his immaculate white bow tie and starched wing collar, dressed for the lords
and honoured guests of the Mansion House, it was a very British warning which
Blair delivered. There was precision, but no panic: today's breed of terrorist
knows no bounds, he said.

There was honesty without giving away secrets: barely a day goes by, he said,
without some new piece of intelligence coming via our security services about a
threat to the UK. And there was statesmanship without brinkmanship; the PM said
judgements were made day by day, week by week, but Britain would not shut down
everything following a threat, because that would be doing the terrorists' job
for them.

Interpol's warning and Blair's calm concern coincided with the release of the
latest taped message from Osama bin Laden, again aired on the Arabic language
satellite station al-Jazeera. Voice experts conclude that it is authentic and
the first independent proof in more than a year that bin Laden is alive.

In the Figaro interview Noble was confident enough to say that bin Laden was
alive, that he was a multi-millionaire before September 11 "and he still is
today''. Noble estimated that bin Laden's fortune was $ 300m, held mostly in
cash.

Either Interpol knew of the existence of the new bin Laden tape or Noble just
got lucky. But in the intelligence business you don't need luck, you just need
more intelligence.

In the tape, bin Laden praises the recent atrocities in Bali, Kuwait, Yemen and
Moscow, though he does not take credit for the operations himself. US security
officials, primarily concerned with the voiceprint analysis of the tape, are
also trying to decode the language, believing that a cryptic message to al-Qaeda
operatives in 60 countries world-wide, might be the whole point of the tape,
effectively an audio call to arms.

Blair's own array of intelligence advisers will have informed him that al -Qaeda
often precede a major attack with a parallel taped threat.

Richard Selby, vice-chairman of the Senate's Intelligence Committee, said: "It
was a warning. There has been a lot of chatter, and when there is a lot of
signal traffic, if history is any guide, there have been attacks or attempted
attacks."

"Chatter" is the innocuous, safe-sounding word used to describe e-mail,
telephone or other communication interceptions. Once identified, their content
is now almost routinely shared by US and UK intelligence communities.

Interpol, understandably, is a key element of the international intelligence
network. "The fear that an attack is imminent and may be activated by the tape
is concrete," said August Henning, the president of Germany's Federal
Intelligence Service. Similarly, the FBI's director, Robert Mueller (just like
Blair) warned his citizens to be vigilant.

Peter Bergen, author of Holy War Inc.: Inside the Secret World of Osama bin
Laden, said that the al-Qaeda leader released audio and videotapes before
al-Qaeda attacks on the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, the bombing
of the USS Cole in Yemen in October 2000 and before the September 11 attacks on
New York and Washington. Bergen claims tapes "have been a most reliable way to
predict attacks".

In the FBI's internal bulletin last week, the message was again off the scale of
Mansion House calm. The bulletin said: "Sources suggest al-Qaeda may favour
spectacular attacks that meet several criteria: high symbolic value, severe
damage to the US economy and maximum psychological trauma."

If there is such a thing as a current international intelligence hymn sheet,
Blair was singing from it at the Mansion House. The prime minister said: "As we
have seen from recent atrocities, whether the attacks of September 11 last year,
Bali, the attacks on the French ship off Yemen, the Russian theatre siege,
today's breed of terrorist knows no bounds - of geography, or inhumanity or of
scale. They are looking for ever more dramatic and devastating outrages to
inflict upon the people they claim to be their enemy."

According to Ranstorp, who lectures and gives briefings on Middle East terrorism
to governments and the military, Blair's message "came quite late in following
other European warnings".  Ranstorp claimed that the Home Office's earlier
release and subsequent attempt to withdraw warnings on biological and nuclear
attacks, highlighted current uncertainty. "The problem is, what is the public
supposed to do with this information? A general warning is all that you can do.
And Blair only added to the concerns already expressed in warnings in Germany,
France, Holland and by Interpol."

Ranstorp said all Blair was trying to do was harness public vigilance. "But for
example, when you look at the mainland bombing campaign carried out by the IRA,
what did public vigilance do to alter the campaign's impact? Very little."

That is implicit in Blair's dilemma, as he called it in his Mansion House
speech. "Where there is intelligence suggesting potential targets, we increase
surveillance or security as far as we can, without causing unnecessary hardship
or alarm to the public. But there is a balance to be struck," he said.

He admitted after the Bali bombing that had the government acted on every piece
of raw intelligence, many railways, airports, shopping centres, and military
installations would have had to be shut down. "So we make the judgement, day by
day, week by week," he explained. He may be making another judgement this
morning, this afternoon, this evening. And he will only know if the correct call
has been made if nothing happens.

What precise information Blair had to inform his speech is difficult to
determine. The US, Interpol and Britain's intelligence agencies all knew of the
renewed al-Qaeda threat. That he chose to open up about the dilemma between
security and normality indicates rough times ahead. He also linked terrorism
with weapons of mass destruction. He tried to include Iraq when he said failed
states that repress their people "share the same absence of rational boundaries
as the terrorist". But lengthy reflection? That Blair does not want us to do.
His very British warning is "get on with it, till "

The message in the US has been starker. In 1997 on prime-time television, the US
Secretary of Defence, William Cohen, held up a five-pound bag of sugar and said
it would take "this much anthrax" to kill the entire population of Washington
DC. He had no way of knowing that inside four years a mere handful of spores
sent through the US mail threatened to paralyse and panic the entire nation. In
a post-September 11 world, it doesn't take much.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Clockwise from left: Indonesian mourners hold a candle-lit vigil in
Bali, Russian special forces rescue hostages in the aftermath of the Moscow
theatre siege, a French tanker lies crippled off the coast of Yemen and a
suspected militant is arrested by Pakistani security forces in Karachi Main
photograph: Aamir Qureshi

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           November 17, 2002, Sunday

Three charged over plot to attack London Underground Terrorist plan for
poison-gas assault on capital's commuters 'foiled by MI5'

BYLINE: BY THAIR SHAIKH AND FRANCIS ELLIOTT

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 850 words

THREE MEN have been charged under anti-terrorism laws after MI5 foiled an
alleged plot to launch an attack on London, the police revealed last night.

The men, all Muslims of North African origin, are suspected of belonging to a
group known as the North African Front, which has been linked to al-Qaeda.

The alleged plot was foiled after the group was infiltrated by MI5 agents in
co-operation with anti-terrorist police officers. One of the men is aged 21, the
second 33, and the third in in his mid-30s. They are thought to be of Tunisian
or Moroccan origin.

The men appeared earlier this week at Bow Street Magistrates Court and were
remanded in custody under anti-terrorist legislation, charged with possession of
articles for terrorist purposes.

The threat of the attack is understood to have prompted the warning last week by
the Prime Minister of the possible attack on Britain by terrorists.

The group had been under surveillance for several months and reports last night
suggest that MI5, the security service, believed that the three men were
planning to bring ingredients for a gas bomb into Britain, and planned to
release it on a crowded London Underground train during the rush hour. While an
attack on London commuters is thought to have been the most likely plan, senior
police officers last night told The Sunday Telegraph that the group's final
target had not yet been established beyond doubt.

Eight men were arrested on November 9 in a swoop by Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch on a string of addresses in North London.

The Sunday Times claimed that the arrests had been ordered by Mr Blair after he
was briefed on details of MI5's surveillance of the group. While the security
service wanted to continue monitoring the suspects until it could establish
further details about the alleged plot and any links to al-Qaeda, the newspaper
reports that the Prime Minister insisted that no risks be taken and that the
cell be shut down immediately. A Downing Street spokesman last night declined to
discuss whether the Prime Minister had intervened.

In his speech at the Lord Mayor's Banquet last Monday - two days after the
arrests - Mr Blair spelled out the new terrorist threat facing the nation.
"These dangers can strike at any time," said the Prime Minister. "At the moment
barely a day goes by without some new piece of intelligence coming via our
security services about a threat to UK interests.

"Today's breed of terrorist knows no bounds - of geography, of inhumanity, or of
scale. They are looking for ever more dramatic and devastating outrages to
inflict on the people they claim to be their enemy."

The Prime Minister's open warning followed a bungled alert from the Home Office
the previous week. David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, blamed a "clerical error"
for an official document that warned that terrorist could target Britain with
poison gas.

The Home Office warning was circulated to journalists at Westminster on the
afternoon of November 7, two days before the arrests. It claimed: "Maybe they
will try to develop a so-called dirty bomb or some kind of poison gas; maybe
they will try to use boats or trains, rather than planes. The bottom line is
that we simply cannot be sure". The document was then hastily withdrawn and
replaced with a less detailed assesment.

A Home Office spokesman said last night: "If the Government or the police
thought it necessary to give the public specific warnings about any venue -
including the Underground - we would not hesitate to do so."

This is not the first time that underground services have been targeted by
terrorists. Two Algerians were last month sentenced by a French court to life
imprisonment for bombs on the Paris metro in 1995 that killed eight people and
wounded 200. The men were members of Algeria's Armed Islamic Group (GIA), an
Islamic-linked terrorist organisation. One bomb was on a crowded commuter train
in the Paris Latin quarter. A third suspect in the bombings is still being held
in Britain after unsuccessful extradition attempts to secure his release.

MI5 is understood to be investigating whether the three charged in connection
with the plot are linked both to the GIA and al-Qaeda.

Al-Qaeda has a well-established history of experimenting with the use of
cyanide. A haul of books and documents recovered last year from a house in
Kandahar, Afghanistan, included chemistry texts showing how to make hydrogen
cyanide gas. Video tapes recovered from a training camp in Afghanistan showed
dogs being poisoned with a white vapour, thought to be cyanide.

On December 20, Italian prosecutors will begin trying eight suspected members of
another North African movement, the Salafist Group for Preaching & Combat, which
has been affiliated with Al-Qaeda and is charged with planning a cyanide-gas
attack in France.

Earlier this year, police in Rome arrested four Moroccans in possession of
cyanide and a map of the city's water network. The suspects were found to have
maps of the Italian capital with the US embassy highlighted, and a quantity of
forged identity papers.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           November 18, 2002, Monday

THREAT OF UK TERROR ATTACK 'VERY HIGH' POSSIBLE TARGET: A newspaper claimed a
plot centred on London's underground

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 279 words


THE threat of a terrorist attack on Britain is "very high", an expert warned
today.

Osama bin Laden had issued an "explicit" threat said Professor Paul Williamson,
of St Andrews University's Centre for the study of Terrorism and Political
Violence.

"The threat level to the UK is very high at present," the professor told BBC
Radio 4's Today programme.

"We know that al Qaida is an extremely dangerous organisation with a record of
mass killing.

"We also know that Britain has been explicitly mentioned by bin Laden in a
recent audio tape. "He threatens attacks against Britain and other countries
that are part of the terrorism coalition."

Lord Harris, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority, said the head of
specialist police operations in London thought it was a case of when, not if, an
attack came.

"It is a matter of common sense that you take the warning that the professor has
just given us very seriously," he told Today.

"Following September 11 (government minister) Nick Raynsford convened what is
called the London resilience committee which looked at all the existing plans
and upgraded them on the basis of what if the unthinkable happened.

"No-one had envisaged terrorism on the sort of scale that we saw in New York and
Washington that day.

"What if various things happened including attacks on the London Underground?

"Do the emergency services have the plan in place to handle specific events?

"All of those plans were upgraded. A lot of work was done on working out how
agencies would cope under specific eventualities.

"I think we are much better prepared than we would have been 18 months ago."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 18, 2002, Monday

Al-Qa'eda 'likely to be planning suicide bomb' Security and intelligence experts
rule out Underground nerve gas attack for terrorist 'spectacular', write Sean
O'Neill and Philip Johnston

BYLINE: By Sean O'Neill and Philip Johnston

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 619 words

AN al-Qa'eda attack in Britain is more likely to take the form of a suicide
bombing than an attempt to release deadly chemicals, the authorities believe.

Despite claims that three men arrested last week were planning a cyanide attack
on the London Underground, no noxious substances nor details of a specific
target have been discovered.

Rather than foiling an imminent attack, the joint Scotland Yard and MI5
operation is more correctly viewed as an attempt to disrupt a suspected terror
cell in the early stages of its existence. Exactly what operation, if any, was
being planned or where it was to be carried out - in Britain or elsewhere - is
not known.

Reports that there was to be a poison gas attack on the Tube are "alarmist",
security sources say.

Britain appears to be in the grip of a severe case of the jitters - cyanide
fears following dire warnings from the Prime Minister and other senior
Government figures.

An alert about "dirty bombs" - issued erroneously by the Home Office this month
- was followed by David Blunkett's statement calling for increased vigilance and
warning that "whatever damage they [al-Qa'eda] are able to inflict they will do
so".

Tony Blair followed the Home Secretary by announcing that Britain was engaged in
"a new type of war, fought in a different way by different means". We would win,
he said, but not without pain.

Days later came alarm over a security alert at ports across Europe after French
and Dutch authorities passed on vague intelligence about a threat to shipping -
possibly a bomb on a ferry.

The reality is that ministers and the intelligence chiefs who advise them do not
know exactly what is going on but they suspect that something - possibly a
"spectacular" - is going to happen.

This nervousness is based on the amount of intelligence traffic - which is
running at the same level as it was immediately prior to the September 11
attacks.

Western intelligence agencies sensed something was afoot before the World Trade
Centre and Pentagon attacks. British agents flew to the United States to discuss
the threat.

The problem was then, as it is now, that they could not pinpoint the threat -
neither the type of attack nor where it would occur.

Terrorism experts and intelligence agencies expect that if al-Qa'eda strikes it
will do so using conventional explosives.

"We know from Afghanistan that they are interested in cyanide and have
experimented on dogs using nerve gas, but that is a long way from making such
agents operational," said Magnus Ranstorp of St Andrew's University.

"There is concern all across Europe at the moment, not just in Britain. But the
most likely scenario is a suicide attack on a public building or in a public
place. Simplicity is the name of the game for al-Qa'eda."

Bin Laden's followers prefer blunt and brutal methods. The September 11 attacks
were giant suicide bombs. The Bali bomb, the attacks on US embassies in Kenya
and Tanzania, the bombing of US and French ships off Yemen and the synagogue
attack in Tunisia have all involved high explosives in lorries, cars or boats.

While the state of alert is high, police, politicians and intelligence agencies
also acknowledge, however, that we could all be victims of psychological warfare
in the run-up to Christmas.

In his recent assessment of the terror threat, Mr Blunkett gave a warning of the
threat posed to a democratic society by creating a constant sense of fear.

He said: "We know that because the terrorists want us to live in fear and want
to damage our economy and the well-being of our people, that they are capable of
feeding false information to us in the hope that we over-react and damage our
economic and other interests."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               November 18, 2002

Firefighters Using Terror Attack To Justify Claim

SECTION: Features; DIY; Electrical; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 175 words


Hasn't anybody twigged yet or am I the only person who thinks that this pay
dispute and strike action by the firemen has been stage managed since September
11, 2001.  We the public have constantly been reminded how the brave New York
firefighters lost their lives in the line of duty.

We donated money, sent condolences to the bereaved families, we held a memorial
service this year.

So riding on the backs of their dead American counterparts, not forgetting the
wave of public sympathy, our own firefighters have now decided to bite the hand
that feeds them.

The men and women who undertake the role of the firefighter are only too aware
of the dangers they face at the initial interview, the training involved and
also the pay, which probably attracted them to the job in the first place.

So why do they think that asking for 40 per cent increase in pay is going to
make their job any less dangerous?  And how, by striking, do they hope to gain
public sympathy?  Ross Causon St Johns Road Mount Pleasant, Exeter Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 18, 2002

Threat of war: Amid arrests and alerts, how safe is the tube?: Capital has long
faced spectre of terror attack

BYLINE: Jamie Wilson

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 797 words


For commuters and the government it is perhaps the ultimate nightmare. Inside a
packed rush hour underground carriage passengers suddenly begin coughing and
choking. As the train draws into the station they scrabble at the doors, falling
out on to the platform clutching their throats and gasping for breath. In the
rush for the exits those overcome by the gas are trampled underfoot. As news of
the attack spreads the city grinds to a halt.

This scenario is, according to reports yesterday, exactly what a group of north
Africans, allegedly affiliated to al-Qaida, had in mind for the London
underground. The men, the Sunday Times claimed, planned to carry separate
containers of a cyanide compound and another chemical into a train compartment
where they would be mixed to generate a cloud of hydrogen cyanide.

The story linking their arrests to the underground was sourced to the security
services, and coincided with both the prime minister's gloomy address at the
lord mayor's banquet, where he appealed for vigilance against suicide bombings
and gas attacks, and with the bungled release of a Home Office document warning
that terrorists could target Britain with poisonous chemicals.

But yesterday the government was desperate to play down reports that the tube
had been singled out. John Prescott brushed them off as speculation, while a
Home Office spokeswoman said: "If the government thought it was necessary to
give the public a specific warning about any venue, and we should include the
underground in that, then that would be done without hesitation, because public
safety is our highest priority."

But in the face of such contrasting reports and advice, what exactly is the
public who use London's tube system supposed to believe?

Ever since the 1995 poison gas attack on the Tokyo subway by the Aum Shinrikyo
cult that left 12 people dead and more than 5,000 injured, there has been fear
that terrorists might try to carry out a similar spectacular in London. The
group left small perforated bags of the nerve agent sarin in subway terminals so
the gas would spread during the rush hour. The crumb of comfort London commuters
can take from the attack is the low number of deaths - given the fact that
scientists within the cult worked for years on the plan.

Last month two Algerians were sentenced by a French court to life imprisonment
for bombs on the Paris metro in 1995 which killed eight people and wounded 200.
The men were members of Algeria's Armed Islamic Group, an Islamist-linked
terrorist organisation.

Although there has never been an attack on the London system it is clear that at
least the possibility is being taken very seriously. Security sources said
yesterday that separate intelligence has been received - not linked to the three
men arrested last week - that Islamist extremists abroad were planning such an
attack. They said British intelligence had received reports that there was "a
clear intention" to attack the tube, among other targets in Britain and western
Europe.

From early next year the travelling pub lic will be faced with "protect and
survive" posters in tube and railway stations and other locations. The posters
may warn the public not to take deep breaths during any gas attack but to cover
their noses and mouths, and to leave others at risk to be aided by the emergency
services.

The botched Home Office warning, blamed by David Blunkett on a "clerical error",
has also raised anxiety levels. "Maybe they will try to develop a so-called
dirty bomb or some kind of poison gas, maybe they will try to use boats or
trains, rather than planes," said a warning circulated on November 7, two days
before the arrests. The document was hastily replaced with a toned-down version.

Worryingly, evidence suggests al-Qaida has experience of handling cyanide. Books
and documents recovered last year from a house in Kandahar, Afghanistan,
included instructions on how to make hydrogen cyanide gas, while videos
recovered from a training camp showed dogs being poisoned with a white vapour.

Yesterday a spokeswoman for London Underground refused to comment on the reports
linking the network to an attack, but the clear message was that London is
better prepared than other underground systems. "Over the past 30 years we have
been exposed, like the rest of London, to the threats of terrorism," the
spokeswoman said, adding: "All our staff are well trained to look out for the
unusual. We have CCTV and we have 3.25 million passengers a day looking out for
the unusual as well."

The underground system is on a permanent state of high alert, and due to the
number of security and fire alerts, staff are well versed in evacuating busy
central London stations in a matter of minutes.


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 18, 2002, Monday

AL-QA'IDA SUSPECTS FACE TERRORISM CHARGES AMID WARNINGS OF NEW ATTACKS

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent Jack Straw: Tube is safe

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 309 words


THREE SUSPECTED supporters of al-Qa'ida are to appear in court today on
terrorism charges amid a series of intelligence warnings about the threat of an
attack - possibly with poisonous gas - on Britain by Islamist extremists.

Reports that the three North African detainees had been preparing to release
deadly chemicals on the London Underground were dismissed by security sources.

The three unemployed men, who were arrested in London allegedly with forged
documents, are charged over the possession of articles for the preparation,
instigation and commission of terrorist acts. They were seized on 9 November
during a series of raids by Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch in north
London. The suspects were charged under Section 57 of the Terrorism Act 2000,
while three others held at the same time were later released without charge.

Rabah Chekat-Bais, 21, Rabah Kadris, in his mid 30s, and Karim Kadouri, 33, are
due to appear at Bow Street magistrates' court, London, today.

The raids came after an investigation by MI5 and the Metropolitan Police. The
men were suspected of supporting al-Qa'ida and an Algerian extremist group, and
were believed to be considering plans for an attack. But, security sources said,
it was decided to disrupt the group with early raids.

Scotland Yard denied reports that the group had plotted to kill commuters on the
Underground, saying that no gas, chemicals or bomb-making equipment had been
found.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, when asked whether it was safe for commuters
to use the Tube today, replied: "Yes, so far as I know, it's fully safe to use
the Underground."

But the case has highlighted fears of an attack on the Underground by al
-Qa'ida, and the Government is to place posters in Tube and railway stations
advising people how to survive an act of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 18, 2002, Monday

MEN ON TERRORIST CHARGES NOT LINKED TO GAS ATTACK'

BYLINE: Nick Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 465 words


THREE men are due to appear in court today in London charged with terrorist
offences.

The trio are charged with possessing "articles for the preparation, instigation
and commission of terrorism acts" and are understood to be accused of having
fake documents.

Rabah Chekat-Bais, 21, Rabah Kadris, in his mid 30s, and 33year-old Karim
Kadouri - all north African Muslims of no fixed abode - will appear at Bow
Street magistrates court.

They were among six people arrested in north London on November 9.

Two of the other three were subsequently released on police bail and no further
action is being taken against the final man.

The arrests only came to light at the weekend, six days after those charged had
made their first appearances in court and they had already been remanded in
custody.

Unemployed Chekat-Bais appeared at Bow Street last Monday and Kadris and
Kadouri, also both unemployed, appeared in court on Tuesday.

Their case only emerged publicly after a newspaper suggested it was linked to an
alleged plot to attack the London Underground, which was reported to have been
foiled by an extensive security operation.

However, the men are not charged in relation to a particular attack and defence
sources questioned how and why the alleged Tube plot was revealed after the men
had already appeared in court.

They are understood to strongly deny involvement in any such plot.

Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin commented that it had been "strange" that it
took so long for news of the arrests to become public.

"I shall be asking for a full state-ment from ministers in Parliament," he said.

Subsequent media reports of a possible terrorist attack on the Tube sparked
public concern and immediate responses from the highest level.

Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott, in particular, played down the incident.

Speaking on BBC 1's Breakfast with Frost programme, he said, "In this case it
doesn't appear to be that there is any evidence whatsoever that there was going
to be a gas attack or indeed use of bombs regarding the three people who have
been arrested."

He added, "It has been elaborated on by the press."

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw confirmed the arrests of six terrorism suspects,
but refused to speculate further.

He said, "The arrests are accurate.

"I am not going to speculate about the circumstances - that is a matter for the
court proceedings," he added.

Government sources insisted the case had nothing to do with Prime Minister Tony
Blair's recent anti-terrorist warning in his speech to the Lord Mayor's banquet
in London.

Nor, sources added, was the case connected to a recent Home Office warning that
Al Qaida might be ready to use "a so--called dirty bomb, or some kind of poison
gas".

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POSSIBLE TARGET: The crowded London Underground

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               November 19, 2002

BITCHES WITH JULIA ETHERINGTON, MEL MYERS AND AMY WATTS - SINGER ESCAPES GLASS
ATTACK; ENRIQUE'S TERROR

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 222 words


ENRIQUE IGLESIAS put on a brave face to hide fears for his safety after two
violent attacks.

Aides close to the hunk have played down reports that he was punched in the face
after he stepped out of a lift in swanky Barcelona Hotel Arts last week.

But that wasn't the first terrifying incident Enrique had encountered.

For the Latino singer had come inches away from losing his good looks when a bar
brawl turned nasty.

He was partying with pals when a mass punch-up broke out.

Enrique was caught in the middle of the fight at the MTV Europe Awards on
Thursday as one man raised a bottle and swung it towards his head.

Luckily a security guard intervened, leaving Enrique to grab his mates and make
for the door.

A friend of the star revealed to Bitches: "He tried to make out he wasn't
bothered, but because the punch in the face came soon after, it did get to him.

"He doesn't know whether he was in the wrong place at the wrong time or whether
someone thought he'd target him just because he's famous.

"Anyway, he had a good time at the when two men started a slanging match with
him.

One punched him in the face but Enrique's minders quickly stepped in.

Bitches are hoping the star has a warmer welcome in Britain this week as he
spends time in London promoting his new single, Maybe.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 Express Newspapers

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 19, 2002

Better safe: Barely a day goes by without some new warning about an imminent
terrorist attack. But what exactly can we do to protect ourselves? Should we be
looking for a bunker? Where do you buy a gas mask? And is it safe to breathe on
the tube? Tim Dowling investigates

BYLINE: Tim Dowling

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1932 words


As a rule, it doesn't take an ominous government warning to make me paranoid.
Nor do I require the possibility of a poison gas attack to make me nervous on
the London Underground. I've been worrying about vague, nameless threats to my
security since well before it was fashionable. But now that the Home Office has
issued two versions of the same mixed message, it seems to me I should be
reassessing my security priorities. Instinctively, I feel I should no longer be
worrying about someone stealing the garden furniture. And yet I am not sure
what, if anything, I am supposed to be doing.

Last week, the prime minister made chilling references to a "new type of war",
one that will "test not just our ability to fight, but our charac ter, our
resilience, and our belief in our own way of life." Yes, and? The week before,
the Home Office issued two warnings, one which specifically mentioned dirty
bombs and poison gas, followed by a revised version which only implied them.
Some experts say that they are only letting us in on the continuous intelligence
"background noise" since September 11. It sounds as if the home secretary and
the prime minister just want us to know they are tired of being freaked out on
our behalf, and think it is time we shouldered a bit of the psychological
burden. I'm willing to do my share, but I could do with a little more foreground
noise. Should I be opening my mail? Should I be wearing a gas mask on public
transport? Should I be packing my family into the car and getting the hell out
of here?

At public health laboratory services, the agency charged with protecting the
public from infectious diseases spread through, among other things,
bio-terrorism, they insist that it's business as usual, at least in post 9/11
terms. "Obviously, since then things have stepped up a gear," says a
spokesperson. She directs me to their website for more information on possible
anthrax, small pox and plague attacks. "If you go to the 'Topics A to Z' section
and go to D for Deliberate Releases, there's actually a section on those
pathogens." The website suggests I use a letter opener on all my post.

Transport security, a division of the Department for Transport, Local Government
and the Regions set up to protect the travelling public from acts of violence,
suggests I speak to the Home Office or the Met. The Home Office declines to be
any more specific than the vague warning already issued by the home secretary.
"Just to be aware, to look out for things that are suspicious, and to report
them to the police," says a spokesman. The Met's official line is picked out in
bold on its website: "There is no information suggesting that London, or
anywhere else in the UK, is at specific risk of terrorist attack, although we,
of course, continue to be vigilant."

I discover that the borough I live in has its own emergency planning officer,
but he does not wish to speak to me, presumably because it shows favouritism.
Instead, a spokesman emails me a statement which reads in part: "In light of the
international situation, reviews of existing emergency plans have been taking
place across the country and Kensington and Chelsea is no exception." I get the
feeling I'm not at the top of anybody's Need To Know list.

This week we have heard of the possibility that the country may soon be
plastered with "Protect and Survive" posters, reminiscent of the helpful
leaflets issued as late as 1980, which showed you how to make a fallout shelter
from an old door and some sand-filled luggage. According to a De partment of
Health spokesman, there is a plan for posters which might, for example, advise
gas attack victims to "breathe in a shallow way", although he is quick to stress
that no posters have been produced and there is no real time scale for their
deployment. While I've got him on the phone, I ask about getting my annual
smallpox vaccination, but apparently they don't do them, on account of severe
adverse reactions in a small percentage of the population. In the event of an
outbreak, he says, they would vaccinate in a "ring-fence" around the affected
area. I did also try to go private, ringing a Harley Street clinic from the
Yellow Pages. "I don't think there's any in the country at the moment," says the
woman. Really? "Well, we don't have it anyway. I know because we've had this
question before."

It's difficult to gauge the level of panic in London, because the capital is
perpetually in a state of moderate crisis. Traffic is always at the sort of
standstill one associates with panicky flight from a thermonuclear event.
Cyclists already wear gas masks for fear that they will be poisoned by exhaust
fumes. Those worried about biological attacks will not find it difficult to
avoid taking the tube; as often as not, the tube finds a way to avoid taking
you. But in light of the warnings, how safe is safe enough? If one is to avoid
major train and underground stations, government buildings, crowded squares,
tourist attractions, conspicuous monuments, major sporting events and any
building over 10 storeys high in order to feel secure, one may as well reassess
the whole idea of being in London. I don't get out enough as it is. All the
same, I don't think I'll be bothering with the boat show this year.

If I'm staying, then I'll clearly need to make my own arrangements. The first
matter of business is obviously to obtain some of those army surplus nuclear
biological chemical (NBC) protection suits, quickly and on the cheap. This is
not as easy as you would imagine in these troubled times; I need five of them,
and the army doesn't appear to do children's sizes. Drop Zone Supplies in Woking
has just two sizes in stock. "At the moment we've got size large and we've got
size small," says the man from Drop Zone. "They're pounds 9.95 and they're still
vacuum packed." Sounds reasonable. What else do I need to be safe? "First of all
you need training on how to use the suit, you need a gas mask, you need the
suit, gloves inner, gloves outer and boots over, DKP1, DKP2, NAPS tablets,
atropine tablets . . ." Atropine tablets? "Pills. You won't be able to buy
those." But you have everything else? "No, we don't. All we have is the suits.
Suits and the gloves outer." Is that any good at all? "The suit on its own
probably won't be much protection for you, I'm afraid. I've had lots of these
calls."

I do eventually find a website offering children's NBC suits, or at least an
approximation: "There are no kids in the military (things aren't that desperate
yet, thank God). However, we regularly have XXS and even XXXS size suits. These
will normally fit children down to larger six to eight year olds." But the shop
is in Oregon, and the family package, including four MOPP NBC protective suits
with boots, gloves and hoods, 4 M10M German gas masks and three dosimeters comes
in at more than Dollars 425 (pounds 270), and still leaves me shy of one kit.
They also do a whole inflatable NBC shelter, a "completely self-contained,
transportable and air-inflatable system designed to protect against all known
chemical biological agents," but it retails for Dollars 4,000, which seems a lot
for what looks like an anthrax-proof bouncy castle.

Trawling the web for a company to cater to my needs, I hit upon an unlikely
solution: paintballing. Camelot Events in Surrey include an NBC suit and face
mask in the price of a day's paintballing. In the event of a dirty bomb, I could
protect my family while combining our survival with a fun day out. I call to
check age limits.

"We have a special day for young guns which is from 12 to under 18," says the
woman on the end of the reservation line, "and that's every sec ond Saturday of
every month." My kids are a bit young for this, and it seems a trifle optimistic
to hope that any attack will coincide with the second Saturday of the month. But
is it true that they provide free NBC suits? "That's right, yeah, it includes
your suit, all your equipment." Nuclear, biological and chemical protection
suits? "I'll just check with my colleague. I'm not really sure." There is a
consultative pause. "They are ex-army suits," she says. So you're effectively
protected from nuclear, biological or chemical attack while you're paintballing?
"Yeah, oh yeah, that's what they're for."

Preparing your family for the worst is the subject of many a survivalist
website, and it doesn't take any particular trouble to follow sensible advice
like keeping a first-aid kit, a bag of warm clothes, 72 hours' worth of water
and MREs (US army rations - "Meals, ready-to-eat", Dollars 44.99 for a case of
24) in your car at all times. "If you will have the dog with you (we certainly
will), you'd best stash some dog food, and count the dog as a person in your
water needs (sorry kids, the dog stays behind)." But where are we going? And
when are we there?

Obviously, we could leave London, but I imagine everyone else will have the same
idea. We tried to leave last week, and it didn't go very well. We could move to
a place al-Qaida have never heard of, such as - I'm guessing here - Crewe, but
how far can you ever get from a port, airfield or military installation? There
are nuclear shelters all over Britain, some of which occasionally come up for
sale, but generally speaking, they're not cheap. A 50s shelter in the Cotswolds
recently went on the market for pounds 400,000, which is slightly more than I've
budgeted.

The answer lies under Essex, in the Kelvedon Hatch nuclear bunker, built in 1952
to house the British government in the event of a nuclear war. It was
operational until the early 90s, when it was purchased by the Parrish family,
who had always farmed the land on top of it. Kelvedon Hatch is now open to the
public, a family ticket priced at just pounds 12. They say the tour takes
between one and two hours, but I suppose it could be stretched out to 72 hours
if you pretend to be really interested and keep asking lots of questions.
Unfortunately, it seems that when D-day comes, Kelvedon Hatch will be closed for
a private party.

"pounds 30,000 will guarantee you a 10-year space down here," says the owner,
Michael Parrish, when I ring to check on winter opening hours. "That's what
we've been offering for three or four years now. When 9/11 came along, of
course, it became more significant." The good news is that he's only had 13
serious inquiries so far, and space is not an issue at the moment. "It was
originally built to hold 600 people. Latterly, in the 80s and 90s, that was
whittled down to just over 300. My family's about 100 strong, and would be given
the option of coming down here unfettered, so we'd be looking to let out another
60 to 70 spaces."

According to Parrish, the bunker is up-to- date and in good working order. "In
the mid-80s, Maggie Thatcher revamped them all when the Russians went into
Afghanistan," he says."It's fully equipped. We're running it as a museum, as
though it were operational." The bad news, apart from the pounds 30,000 price
tag, is that money alone will not win anyone a bunk. "It's not as simple as just
taking their money," says Parrish. "We've got to make sure they're
psychologically able to stay underground for three days, three weeks, three
months, three years, 30 years. They've got to be compatible with my family, and
have a skill to make sure that they will be of use in here." I sense this is a
bad time to ask him about the dog. Suddenly, the Dollars 4,000 bouncy castle
sounds like a bargain. I think I'll just stay home and breathe in a shallow way.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               PR Newswire Europe

                           November 19, 2002 Tuesday

Terror attack: information healthcare provider writes to MPs and emergency
services

LENGTH: 571 words


Electronic healthcare information provider Clinnix is writing to all Britain's
MPs and emergency services in a bid to help allay the fears of the general
public on the consequences of a terrorist attack in the UK.

The following letter is being sent to all members of Parliament, plus key
members of the emergency services throughout the U.K. It is an open letter
stating our desire as one of the leading electronic healthcare companies in this
country to help confront the fears of the general public relating to
international terrorism and the consequences of a terrorist attack on this
country. The information will be provided to many thousands of GPs and nurses as
part of the Clinnix Health Pro service and to the public in our Clinnix Health
Manager service which will be available in the lead up to Christmas. Its' aim is
to go some way to taking the terror out of terrorism and help the public to
react in an appropriate manner should they be faced with an act of terrorism. We
believe that this information will help protect people and should be available
to every member of our emergency services and general public alike.

Dear Sir / Madam,

Do you believe that the British public is yet equipped to cope with a local
biological, chemical or radiological attack?

- How many people know what to actually do if such an attack occurs X miles from
them?

- Is it not preferable to provide the population with comprehensive information
in advance rather than escalating fear, possible injury and even death through
ignorance in the event of an actual attack?

People fear the unknown. Panic and alarm result from ignorance and feelings of
helplessness, not from receiving high quality and practical information on how
to react to a real attack.

I am the CEO of a healthcare company providing leading edge evidence based
health information electronically to GP's, nurses and more recently, the British
public. We provide objective, peer reviewed information to all our audiences in
a way which is fully supportive of the Government's desire for evidenced based
clinical decisions, and its' Expert Patient Initiative. This initiative is all
about providing people with information so that they can take more
responsibility and accountability for their own and their family's health.

I feel the absolute need to include in our information the health issues from
biological, chemical or radiological exposure, whether accidental or from
attack, in the same objective, non scaremongering way as we already cover
diabetes, cancer, heart disease, first aid etc. In the forthcoming release of
our updated Clinnix Health Manager product for sale to the British public we
will be including a free of charge module covering this topic in depth. The same
information will be provided to the many thousands of GP's and nurses who
already use our free of charge Clinnix Pro service.

In this way, Synigence plc will be helping the British public to face-up to the
fear of the unknown, and to prepare themselves and their families to have the
best chance of survival in the event of an attack. It's no more than most
individual US states have done through their internet sites. Hopefully, you
already have your own initiatives to ensure that the people you represent and
care for are properly prepared. Let's all take some of the "terror" out of
terrorism.

Yours sincerely

Keith Bushnell Chief Executive OfficerClinnix

CONTACT:

For any further information please contact Keith Bushnell on +44 [0]7976300915

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 PR Newswire Europe Limited

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 19, 2002, Tuesday

Fear of terrorism attack on Tube 'is unwarranted'

BYLINE: Ben Webster Transport Correspondent and Michelle Henery

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 515 words


MEDIA hysteria was blamed last night for causing unnecessary alarm among
passengers about possible terrorist attacks on the Tube.

Mike Brown, London Underground's customer services director, said that a spate
of newspaper and television reports had blown the danger out of all proportion.

He told The Times that no specific information about any possible attack had
been given during the regular communications between Underground managers and
the security services. "There is a danger that media hysteria takes out of
proportion what our passengers already sensibly know.

"We have been a target of sorts for over 30 years. Since September 11 we have
thought through many possibilities with the security services and we are almost
continually on a high state of vigilance. But it is London that really carries
the risk, not specifically the Tube."

Mr Brown said that the Tube was unique among metro systems around the world in
having such a high number of staff, with 6,000 people working in ticket halls
and on platforms. British Transport Police had more than 400 officers on the
Tube and most stations had CCTV. Through the Public Private Partnership, due to
begin next year, hundreds more cameras would be installed. He said: "We are
working to remove any blind spots not covered by the cameras and making sure we
get quality images."

Mr Brown said that specialist staff regularly carried out practice-runs for
dealing with terrorist attacks. He declined to give details, but said that all
staff were drilled in the procedure for evacuating stations.

London Underground aims to evacuate the entire network in less than 20 minutes
in the event of a general threat being received. In 1992, a series of IRA
incendiary bombs on the network prompted a full evacuation of 250,000 people and
460 trains. It was completed within 19 minutes.

More than 300,000 people may be on the system at any one time, with the most
congested period from 8am to 8.30am. At peak times more than 230 people may be
crowded into a single Underground carriage. The District Line has the greatest
capacity per carriage, with 48 seats and room for 184 people standing.

Victoria is the most congested Underground station, followed by King's Cross and
Oxford Circus.

Mr Brown said that the main line of defence against terrorist attacks was the
vigilance and experience of staff. "A station assistant at King's Cross who
stands there day in, day out can tell the difference between someone who has
come down from Scotland and is trying to find their way, and a suspicious
person."

The Underground dismissed suggestions that gas detectors should be installed at
stations. A spokesman said: "Where would you put them? On the trains, in the
stations, in the booking halls? The nature of the threat does change and the
reality is that technology, however sophisticated, can never replace human
intelligence."

He said that any measures taken to protect the network would need to be balanced
against the need to move three million passengers each day as efficiently as
possible.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 20, 2002

GOVERNMENT PANIC NATION OVER TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 265 words


I AM disgusted by the irresponsible and alarmist way in which the media reported
and alleged attempted terrorist attack on the London underground system ("Death
squads target Britain", Daily Express, November 18).

It has been said that a hydrogen cyanide attack on the Tube could kill 10,000
people. The gas is extremely deadly, but it has to be delivered in huge
quantities. To kill 10,000 people, even in an enclosed environment like the Tube
system, w ould take dozens of tanker-loads of gas, a logistical problem even the
most intelligent terrorist could not solve.

True, a suitcase containing some canisters of the gas could kill the people near
it, but it would be less deadly than if the same suitcase w ere filled with
explosives.

The thought of indiscriminate terrorist attacks are bad enough w ithout scaring
people half to death with stories of gas and germs. I am serving in the military
and am trained in nuclear, biological and chemical warfare. They are terrible
weapons, but they all have their limitations.

The material needed to make any sort of nuclear device is very difficult to
acquire, but a mere mention of radioactive substances will cause public panic.
The dial on your luminous watch is radioactive, but that doesn't scare you, does
it?

Most biological weapons are far less deadly than people think: the germs are
dispersed high into the atmosphere where they are rapidly killed off by direct
sunlight.

I'm not saying there isn't a danger, but it is far smaller than scaremongers
would have y ou believe.

Name and address supplied

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                               November 20, 2002

Terrorist attack - are GPs ready?

SECTION: News:Health:Others, Pg.2

LENGTH: 733 words


Family GPs and small hospitals are ill-equipped to cope with huge numbers of
patients if chemical weapons were used.

Gloucestershire Community Health Council says the situation is scandalous.

It says a county boasting the government listening post at GCHQ in Cheltenham
and a strategic airbase at Fairford should be better prepared.

But the Primary Care Trusts, which are responsible for GP surgeries, medical
centres and the county's smaller hospitals, say they have not had time to put
action plans together since they were formed in the NHS shake-up in April.

CHC chairman Janet Frost says this is not good enough.

She said: "No one thinks sweet and lovely Gloucestershire could be liable to a
terrorist attack but we have two important targets.

"The Government has talked about how ill prepared health managers are across the
country but in Gloucestershire we seem to be worse than most. Something must be
done soon."

She was responding to the findings of the Review of Primary Care Trusts
Emergency Planning Procedures and Performance.

The report says Gloucestershire's three Primary Care Trusts are not well
equipped to deal with a major emergency.

It found:

- a manager leading emergency planning for Gloucestershire has only been in
place for three months, compared with five years in some neighbouring counties.

- a full-scale simulation exercise, putting into practice any county plan, was
not expected until 2005, compared with 2003 in Avon and Wiltshire.

- no preparation of plans and action cards.

- no budget for staff training.

- no in-house training for staff who will have a role in a major incident plan.

Mrs Frost said: "We need an assurance there is something going on. The trusts
should have an exercise now, not three or four years down the line when it may
be too late."

Mrs Frost said at the last meeting of the Avon, Gloucestershire and Wiltshire
Strategic Health Authority, which carried out the review, fears were raised by
its chair Andrea Millett.

Today Mrs Millett said: "We're anxious to see that Gloucestershire has the plans
and the people it needs to make sure it is prepared.

"I have been assured that the people are in place and the plans are developing.
The board is content with this arrangement."

The report says: "The current situation of heightened international tension
reinforces the need to maintain plans and systems to deal with major incidents.

"The review has been constructed from both the planning for major incidents
guidance and the health emergency planning standards as well as controls
assurance standards."

Anthony Dallimore, spokesman for the Primary Care Trusts, said: "The lead
primary care trust responsible for emergency planning is Cheltenham and
Tewkesbury.

"The report was broadly satisfied with procedures that are in place.

"In terms of simulation, some testing has already taken place involving the
three emergency services.

"In addition, the health community has held a desktop exercise involving major
and mass casualty scenarios. We are looking at actions arising from the
exercises."

He added: "The reason a live test has not recently been carried out in the
county is because all NHS organisations were reorganised in April. This did not
happen in Avon or Wiltshire.

"Gloucestershire is currently taking advice from the Strategic Health Authority
about whether it would be reasonable to test these procedures earlier than
2005."

If a major incident happened, Primary Care Trusts would assess the potential
harm to public health.

They would organise doctors to treat those affected, look at whether beds were
needed at community hospitals such as Winchcombe and Moreton-in -Marsh, and
co-ordinate efforts with Cheltenham General, Gloucestershire Royal and
Tewkesbury hospitals.

Emergency plans for the acute hospitals and borough, district and county
councils in Gloucestershire are in place.

A spokeswoman for Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Trust said: "All public sector
organisations in Gloucestershire, including the health, police, fire, ambulance
services and local authorities work closely together in planning for possible
large scale emergency situations.

"Plans are prepared which learn from the experience of authorities who coped
with tragedies such as the air disaster at Lockerbie and the Paddington rail
crash in order to be as prepared as it is possible to be."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Gloucestershire Echo

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               November 20, 2002

Airport 'a back door' for terrorist attackers;

BYLINE: By Kieran McDaid PA News

SECTION:  Pg. 13

LENGTH: 235 words


BELFAST International Airport could be used as a back door to launch a terrorist
attack on Britain, it has been claimed.

A number of former security personnel yesterday called for an independent
inquiry into security at Aldergrove after claiming many passengers and bags were
allowed onto flights without being searched.

They also claimed there were not enough security officers to carry out searches
and when the airport was busy, passengers were permitted to board planes without
adhering to strict government guidelines.

The staff's claims follow a four-hour strike by security teams on May 14 this
year during which it was alleged nine cases containing suspicious objects were
passed through a top-security X-Ray machine which was switched off.

Malcolm Spencer, a senior staff member in the control room, said he arrived at
work to find the machine switched off at 7.50am that morning.

He then took pictures of it and the room's log-book, which showed only two
employees signed in during the strike action between 4am and 8am, when he claims
five people should have been in the room.

Mr Spencer (51), worked at the airport for 30 years before he was one of 22
employees dismissed in the aftermath of the strike over pay.

He and a number of other colleagues have now called for a full, independent
governmentled investigation into failed security measures at the airport.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 The Irish News Limited

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 20, 2002, Wednesday

RABIES TERROR OF BAT ATTACK;
 SCOT FIGHTS FOR LIFE AFTER BITE

BYLINE: Ron Moore, Chief Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 142 words

HIGHLIGHT: THREAT: Bats carry rabies


SCOTLAND has been put on rabies alert after a wildlife worker was crippled by a
killer bat bite.

David McRae, 55, was last night still fighting for life in hospital.

But medics warned they expect him to become the first British death from the
disease in almost a century.

Artist McRae's devastated family, including partner Carole, were told the
shocking news after he began showing signs of the deadly European Bat Lyssavirus
strain. A huge containment strategy went into operation as soon as fears were
raised by doctors, and David was immediately quarantined at Dundee's
world-respected Ninewells Hospital.

His family were offered vaccines against the disease.

Last night Dr Dilip Nathwani, consultant physician in infectious diseases, said:
"If the rabies diagnosis is correct, the patient won't stand a chance of
surviving."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          November 21, 2002, Thursday

PERSPECTIVE: JUST HOW CAREFUL CAN YOU BE?;
 A WEEK AGO THE PRIME MINISTER PUT US ALL ON FULL ALERT FOR A TERRORIST ATTACK.
A WEEK ON, CHIEF FEATURE WRITER PAUL GROVES ASKS HOW VIGILANT ARE WE EXPECTED TO
BE?

BYLINE: Paul Groves A firefighter in a biohazard suit is cleaned down after an
anthrax scare in Birmingham after the September 11 attacks. Tony Blair has urged
the public to be on their guard again after terror threats

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1297 words


The couple in their late 20s look normal enough. She's in denim and he's more or
less the same with the addition of the nearobligatory baseball cap.

There is very little to tell them apart from the hundreds of other couples
strolling through Birmingham city centre, indulging in a spot of early Christmas
shopping. That is until he opens the holdall slung across his shoulder, takes
out a tightly packed bin liner and puts it into a litter bin.

Is he merely being public spirited and depositing rubbish? Or is there something
more sinister in his actions and should you alert the traffic warden just around
the corner?

It is early in the morning and you spot the rather scruffy old car spluttering
to a halt beneath the motorway flyover. The driver gets out, looks around and
heads off in the direction of the main road.

Has his car, clearly on its last legs, finally given up the ghost and he's gone
in search of a garage? Or should you call the police and report the abandoned
car beneath one of the busiest motorways in the country?

Now that we are on full alert for the possibility of a terrorist attack, exactly
how vigilant should we be?

Much has been made of the warning issued by the Prime Minister at the start of
last week about the likelihood of a terrorist attack against this country. The
arrest of three men over the alleged threat to the London Underground at the
weekend has added strength to the rumours circulating about the prospect of a
major attack against this country. The general consensus seems to be that it is
a very real and imminent threat for Tony Blair to issue such a statement. Also,
perhaps, it had something to do with the fact that his hand was forced after the
previous week's cock-eyed publication of a report into the possibility of a
so-called dirty-bomb attack that led to denials, then confirmation, then
all-round confusion.

Either way, the Prime Minister's warning has stirred up interest once again into
our state of readiness.

But the warnings needs to be put into context. Talk of intelligence services
gathering information and then our main ferry ports being put on heightened
alert suggests that specific details have been uncovered.

However, this is rarely the case. Security services are unsure whether the
threat is actually against this country, whether the target is a cross-Channel
ferry or even whether explosives are to be transported from one side to the
other. The warnings given to intelligence agencies in advance of the recent Bali
bomb covered 60 per cent of Indonesia and no specific target.

Prior to September 11, 2001, intelligence services in this country were made
aware of the increased risk of an attack by the al-Qaida terrorist network but
had no hard and fast information about the finer details that could have allowed
them to tip off their counterparts in the US.

Without specific details, how are we supposed to be more vigilant? The simple
answer appears to be to carry on displaying common sense.

The truth is that cities like Birmingham have lived under the threat of some
sort of terrorist attacks for decades, mainly from Irish republican groups but
also from other disaffected organisations.

That threat has continued throughout the peace process, so the possibility of an
al-Qaida-sponsored attack is nothing new.

At the start of this month, a 'ring of steel' went up around Birmingham in the
run-up to Christmas after West Midlands Police received reports of a possible
car-bomb attack in the city.

Armed officers launched the operation, codenamed Armada Fleet, as police said
spot-checks would be taking place on routes around the city for the next two
months.

West Midlands Police said there was no specific intelligence suggesting a threat
to the region, but Detective Chief Inspector Steve Pepper said police and the
public needed to be guarded against any threat, particularly in light of last
year's failed car-bomb attack in Smallbrook Queensway.

'There is nothing to suggest terrorists are travelling into the Midlands but
terrorism is a continuing threat that knows no bounds,' he added. 'We want to
send a clear message to extremists and would-be terrorists that we are not
sitting back waiting for them to strike.' It forms part of a nationwide
counter-terrorist strategy. But how should we react to such a campaign?

'The initial reaction is to be concerned,' said psychologist Simon Hammersley.
'After September 11 we were told to be more vigilant and people just accepted
that. But when the Prime Minister stands up and tells us to be wary, then you
immediately start to think the worst.

'It is a natural reaction. Suddenly the stakes appear to be much higher and you
are concerned for your own safety and the safety of those you love.

'But it is important to put this into context: no specific threat has been made
against a specific target at a particular time.

'So you cannot be expected to put your life on hold in case something happens.'

The lack of an easily identifiable 'enemy' also poses problems. Osama bin Laden
has become something of a shadowy bogeyman, his whereabouts still unclear, while
we are told that his terrorist network extends to cells throughout the world.

But equally, our level of understanding of the outside world in general has also
diminished over the years.

'Our own personal worlds can be so complex and time-consuming that improving our
understanding of other people and their beliefs becomes harder,' added Mr
Hammersley. 'There's enough happening on your own doorstep and with your own
family and circle of friends, so there is a danger that you become completely
unaware of what's happening in the outside world. 'You get detached from what is
happening with the wider world and then all of a sudden something like the Prime
Minister's warning comes along and causes a real shock to the system.'

In the wake of the September 11 attacks, the Government unveiled plans to invest
an additional pounds 11 million to counter possible threats to the UK.

The money was earmarked to strengthen security at airports, aircraft maintenance
depots and ports.

The source of the threat identified by Mr Blair is still unclear, but is widely
regarded to be linked to the al-Qaida network. Indeed, in the last few years the
intelligence services have shifted their emphasis from dissident Irish
republicans to Islamic fundamentalists. But the events of the last week will
possibly only have added to the confusion.

Mr Blair's ominous warning that alQaida was looking to attack the west with
'ever more dramatic and devastating effect', followed his Home Secretary David
Blunkett's earlier revelations about 'dirty' bombs, exploding trains and
assassinations.

The State Opening of Parliament last Wednesday and the Remembrance Sunday
service in London were both thought to be targets last week.

So although the Government has upped the ante somewhat in the last week or so
with some alarming statements, in reality there has been very little change in
terms of the scale or possibility of an attack for months.

Biological attacks and 'dirty' bombs have been talked about regularly since
September 11 and even before then.

So how should we react to such statements from our political leaders?

Simon Hammersley said that, although important, the warning issued by Mr Blair
should not cause widespread upheaval to our daily lives.

'It comes down to common sense and intuition - that valuable tool we all
possess, albeit to varying degrees,' he explained.

'We should be more aware of what is happening around us and if we see something
out of the ordinary or that doesn't fit with the norm, then we should consider
reporting it to the authorities.'

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          November 21, 2002, Thursday

ELEVEN DIE IN BUS BOMBING;
 SCHOOLCHILDREN IN SUICIDE ATTACK TERROR AFTERMATH: Israeli police investigators
beside the destroyed bus blown up by a suicide bomber this morning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 309 words


ELEVEN people were killed by a suicide bomberon a bus that was carrying
schoolchildren during Jerusalem's early morning rush hour today. The explosion
happened in the Kiryat Yovel neighbourhood. Jerusalem Police Chief Mickey Levy
told Israel Radio: 'Apparently a suicide bomber who boarded the bus blew himself
up.'

At least 38 wounded were taken to hospital. Seven are in a serious condition.

Onlookers said children's sandwiches and schoolbooks lay scattered in the street
around the devastated bus.

The explosion in Mexico Street, was not far from Jeru-salem's largest hospital,
Hadassah Ein Kerem. It was the first bombing since November 4 when a suicide
bomber blew himself up at a shopping mall in central Israel. The Israeli army
has reoccupied most Palestinian towns and cities in the West Bank to try and
halt the bombings over 26 months of Israeli-Palestinian fighting.

There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack, the first in
Jerusalem since August.

The bomber set off the explosives at about 7.15am - two hours ahead of British
time.

A witness, who identified himself only as Tomer, said he was in a car behind the
bus. 'I heard the explosion and then I heard screaming,' he told Israel Radio.
'I saw people hanging out the windows. I saw two people on the bus climbing out
of the window. All I saw was flesh, hands and feet.'

David Baker, an official in Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's office, said:
'Palestinian terrorists continue to cling to the bloodshed agenda and they are
satisfied only when innocent Israeli lives are taken.'

The bombing came as the campaign for Israel's January 28 election is heating up.
It raised doubts about the effectiveness of efforts by Egypt and the Palestinian
Authority to persuade militias to stop attacks, at least for the duration of the
campaign.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                           November 21, 2002 Thursday

NHS WILL NOT COPE WITH TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 135  words



HIGHLIGHT: The NHS is not equipped to cope with...


The NHS is not equipped to cope witha disaster situation, the National Audit
Office has warned.Improvements need to be made in emergency planning and
training, the provision of protective equipment and decontamination
facilities.But the report also blamed the government for inadequate contingency
planning, urging the Department of Health to provide guidance on how emergency
planning should be developed.Facing the challenge: NHS emergency planning in
England comes at a time when the fear of terrorism is increasing following the
alleged tube cyanide plot and the Bali bombing.The report said the NHS was
prepared for rail and plane crashes but needed to do more if it was to cope with
the new threats in the post-11 September world.Sir John Bourn, head of the NAO,
said: 'improvements could still be made'.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2002 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                               November 22, 2002

'We Are Prepared For Terror Attacks'

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 198 words


Ambulance crews across the South West were blasted in an Audit Commission report
this week, for not having the equipment or strategy in place to deal with a
dirty bomb.  But bosses at Gloucestershire Ambulance Service deny this, and say
they are confident they can deal with a terrorist attack.

Alan O'Beirne, deputy operations director, said: "This county has always been
cutting edge as far as dealing with chemical, biological, radioactive and
nuclear warfare goes. We are very well prepared, and there are changes going on
at the moment." Earlier this week, The Citizen reported how GPs and small
hospitals were criticised by Gloucestershire's Community Health Council for
failing to prepare for a terror attack.

Primary Care Trusts - which are responsible for GP surgeries - say they haven't
had time to put together action plans since they were formed by the massive
health shake-up in April this year.

After September 11, the Government allocated GBP 5million to ambulance trusts
across the UK to help pay for more up-to-date chemical decontamination suits and
major incident units - essential lifelines for victims of any chemical attack or
spill.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 The Gloucester Citizen

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           November 22, 2002, Friday

TIMETABLE OF TERROR ATTACKS:

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 85 words


Nov 17, 2000, Riyadh: Plasticexplosive bomb explodes under a jeep, killing
British hospital worker Christopher Rodway, 48. Brown badly injured by bomb in
juice container tucked under his car's windscreen wipers.

bomber explodes bomb at shopping centre, killing US oil engineer Michael Gerald
and injuring an American, a Briton and two Filipinos. Bomb came on the eve of US
bombing strikes against Afghanistan.

banker Simon Veness, 35, killed when his Land Rover blew up on his way to work.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 22, 2002, Friday

Spate of attacks raises Arab terrorism fears

BYLINE: Richard Beeston Diplomatic Editor and Cilina Nasser in Beirut

SECTION: Overseas news; 16

LENGTH: 612 words


Americans came under attack across the Middle East yesterday, prompting fears of
a new wave of terrorist strikes at vulnerable Western targets in the Arab world.

An American nurse was killed by a gunman in Lebanon. Two US soldiers were shot
and injured in Kuwait by a fugitive policeman. In Saudi Arabia a gunman burst
into a McDonald's restaurant and set it alight.

US officials are investigating whether the incidents were isolated attacks or
part of a coordinated campaign. Hours before the latest violence, the US State
Department had issued a warning to American citizens abroad that Osama bin Laden
was preparing fresh attacks against them.

Last week he appeared to claim credit for a wave of recent terrorist strikes
from the bombing in Bali to an attack at sea on a French tanker off the coast of
Yemen.

Whether orchestrated or not, the impact of the latest violence will be much the
same: to sow fear among American and other Western expatriates living in the
region.

The deadliest attack was in the southern Lebanese city of Sidon, where Bonnie
Witheral, 31, anassistant nurse married to Gary Witheral from Crawley in West
Sussex, was found lying in a pool of blood at the clinic where she worked. She
had been shot three times in the head.

She worked for the Christian Missionary Alliance, which runs a school and a
health clinic and serves mainly Palestinians from the nearby Ain el-Hilweh
refugee camp.

According to local reports, the church had received a series of threats by
extremists warning it to close its mission and leave.

Mrs Witheral's murder is the first attack on an American citizen in Lebanon
since a spate of kidnappings and killings of Westerners during the civil war,
which ended a decade ago. Various militant Palestinian and Lebanese Sunni Muslim
groups are active in the area and one is linked to the al-Qaeda network. Earlier
this week Vincent Battle, the US Ambassador to Beirut, cancelled a visit to the
city after protests from religious leaders.

A second manhunt started in Kuwait after two American soldiers were shot and
injured by a traffic policeman on a motorway south of the capital.

Kuwaiti sources said that the soldiers, based at the sprawling US military Camp
Doha, were in civilian clothes and travelling in an unmarked car when they were
flagged down by the Kuwaiti officer near the town of Oraifijan. One was shot in
the face and the other in the shoulder before the policemen fled across the
border into Saudi Arabia.

US officials, mindful of the dangers posed to Western troops as they mass in
Kuwait and other Gulf states in preparation for an invasion of Iraq, played down
the incident.

"There have been terrorist attacks in that region for my entire adult lifetime,
and that is a long time," Donald Rumsfeld, 70, the US Defence Secretary, said.

The Pentagon now has about 50,000 troops in the area. Although they are usually
confined to their bases in the Gulf or kept out of sight on board ships, the
larger the force becomes the more vulnerable it will be to terrorist attacks
from local groups.

Saudi Arabia, where support for bin Laden is thought to be strongest, said that
it would crack down on violence after an arson attack against a McDonald's near
the Prince Sultan airbase, where 4,500 US troops are stationed.

A gunman walked into the restaurant on Wednesday and doused the building with
petrol before setting it alight.

"We will fight this act with all our power and bring it under control," Prince
Nayef, the Interior Minister, said. "Punishment will be severe."

Leading article, page 27 TIMESONLINE www.timesonline.co.uk Latest news


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               November 22, 2002

Cover for terror attacks welcomed

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 196 words


The Government has welcomed the agreement of the Fire Brigades Union to provide
emergency cover to deal with large-scale terrorist or other civil contingency
incidents.

Home Secretary David Blunkett said yesterday that this was particularly
important in view of the heightened threat levels.

A joint statement by John Prescott and Mr Blunkett said: The Deputy Prime
Minister and the Home Secretary today welcome the agreement between all sides in
the current fire dispute to provide cover for large-scale terrorist or other
civil contingency incidents.

Under the agreement, crews and apparatus will be available to respond to these
incidents and arrangements are also in place for back-up support from
neighbouring brigades in the case of sustained and extended operations.

Mr Blunkett said: The Deputy Prime Minister is working hard to bring this
dispute to a speedy resolution that we all need to see.

But I welcome this agreement that fire brigades will provide cover in the case
of these most serious emergencies. This is particularly important in view of the
heightened threat levels which both the Prime Minister and I have recently
spoken about.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          November 23, 2002, Saturday

FIREFIGHTERS' DISPUTE: PRAISE AS CREWS AGREE TO TERROR ATTACK COVER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 194 words


The Government yesterday welcomed the agreement of the Fire Brigades Union to
provide emergency cover to deal with large-scale terrorist or other civil
contingency incidents.

Home Secretary David Blunkett said this was particularly important 'in view of
the heightened threat levels'.

A joint statement by Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott and Mr Blunkett said:
'We welcome the agreement between all sides in the current fire dispute to
provide cover in the event of large-scale terrorist or other civil contingency
incidents.

'Under the agreement, crews and apparatus will be available to respond to these
incidents and arrangements are also in place for back-up support from
neighbouring brigades in the case of sustained and extended operations.'

Mr Blunkett said: 'The Deputy Prime Minister is working hard to bring this
dispute to a speedy resolution that we all need to see.

'But I welcome this agreement that fire brigades will provide cover in the case
of these most serious emergencies.

'This is particularly important in view of the heightened threat levels which
both the Prime Minister and I have recently spoken about.'

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 23, 2002, Saturday

MP reviled for attack on chador 'terrorists'

BYLINE: By Barbie Dutter in Sydney

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 236 words

AN Australian politician sparked outrage when he called for Muslim women to be
banned from wearing their traditional robes because they could be used to
conceal bombs.

The Rev Fred Nile, a maverick New South Wales MP, said the head-to-toe chador
should be prohibited in public places.

"Is it fact that such a total body covering completely conceals a person's
identity, and even whether they are male or female, which is a perfect disguise
for terrorists as it conceals both weapons and explosives?" he asked in the
state assembly.

He called for the state government to consider a prohibition "especially at
railway stations, city streets and shopping centres".

The comments caused outrage among trade unions and churches as well as Muslim
leaders. But they were not immediately rejected by the prime minister, John
Howard. Mr Nile "speaks for the views of a lot of people", he said.

But after a barrage of criticism Mr Howard sought to clarify his position
yesterday. "You can't in a democratic society pass laws telling people how to
dress," he told a Sydney radio station.

Mr Nile, a Christian Democrat and outspoken moral campaigner, further stoked the
controversy by claiming the chador was worn only by extremists.

He cited the example of female Chechen rebels who smuggled explosives into a
Moscow theatre and said the Sydney Opera House could be a target.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                               November 24, 2002

TERROR WATCH;Despite recent successes, security services still believe a major
terrorist attack in the UK is not a case of if but when, reports Torcuil
Crichton

BYLINE: Torcuil Crichton

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1435 words


Glasgow airport was quiet last Saturday night. The security staff who search the
hand luggage at the end of the piers seemed bored and unattentive. An older
guard, assigned to frisk the male passengers, was chatting to another member of
staff. He appeared not to notice one of the travellers, his hands full with
tickets and newspapers, rest a take away coffee cup at the side of the X-ray
machine, walk through the metallic scanner and pick up the coffee on the other
side. Two steps later the guard cut off from conversation, stopped the
passenger, took the cup from his hand and checked its contents.

It was a small but reassuring demonstration of how airports, at least, have
stepped up their game in the fight against terrorism.

"The country is at a higher level of alert than we have been at any time in the
history of modern terrorism," says Paul Wilkinson, Scotland's foremost terrorism
expert.

The mixed messages of reassurance from the government, the chilling warning on
the latest bin Laden tapes and the arrest of three suspected terrorists in
London who, according to newspaper reports were planning a poison gas attack on
the capital's underground, only serve to reinforce the idea that a terrorist
attack on the UK is imminent.

"Al-Qaeda has an interest in killing thousands of civilians and has said that it
is one of its aims. It has the fanaticism, the resourcefulness and wherewithal
to do it and Britain is at the top of its target list," says Wilkinson.

Such dire warnings have to be balanced against the fact that the gas attack
story was played down by the government and the security services as an
overreaction.

One of their lawyers, Gareth Peirce, who represented the Birmingham Six, claimed
the "tidal wave" of prejudicial coverage pointed to the security services or the
police having planted the story.

The three men - Rabah Kadre, Rabah Chehaj-Bias, Karim Kadouri - were arrested on
November 9 and charged under Section 57 of the Terrorism Act, for the possession
of articles for the preparation, instigation and commissioning of terrorism
acts. None of the allegations about attacking the tube with poison gas was put
to the men while they were in custody, say their lawyers.

The truth remains as elusive as any details about the accused men's background
and movements in London, but it is likely the intelligence services will be as
furious as Peirce over the leak that the three suspects might have been linked
to a planned attack on the tube.

Some security sources now claim the connection was made on the basis of nothing
more than a London Underground map found in their possession. Others postulate
that it's possible the intelligence community has gathered more information than
they want to disclose to a court or to a terrorist organisation.

"There is bound to be a discrepancy between what the security services know and
what is presented in court," says Wilkinson. "They will want to limit the amount
of information they have."

From pretty much a standing start, and aided by the Terrorism Act 2000,
Britain's security services, MI6 and MI5, have changed their pace and their
tactics in a move to pre-empt potential terrorist attacks. The traditional
approach was to monitor suspects in the hope of finding out more about
individuals and their links to others. Now the security services have adopted a
risk-averse policy, favoured by the police, in sanctioning arrests sooner rather
than later.

The new tactics are matched by an overflow of intelligence gathering and
unprecedented co-operation among European security services. Intelligence
experts talk of a "fire hose" of information coming in from intelligence
agencies across Europe, so much so that intelligence analysts are being swamped.
As well as European resources, the UK has access to Echelon, the automated
global interception system which taps into as many as three billion phone calls,
e-mails, internet downloads and satellite communications every day.

The Pentagon is also quietly developing plans for a parallel system to monitor
all financial and commercial transactions in a bid to find terrorist money being
moved around the globe. The "total information awareness" systems the Pentagon
and defence contractors want to develop would suck in billions of transactions
from government and commercial databases and mine them for tell -tale traces of
terrorist activities.

The battle front could soon move to the money markets. In an interview with
Computerworld magazine last week, Sheikh Omar Bakri Muhammad, the London-based
Islamic cleric who has long associated himself with bin Laden, said al-Qaeda and
groups were actively planning to use the internet as a weapon in their jihad
against the West.

"In a matter of time you will see attacks on the stock market," he said,
referring specifically to the markets in New York, London and Tokyo. Vince
Cannistraro, the former chief of counter-terrorism at the CIA, claims that a
number of Islamic radicals, some of them close to al-Qaeda, have developed
expertise in computer science.

"Some are well-schooled in how to carry out cyber attacks," says Cannistraro.
"This we know from material retrieved from camps in Afghanistan."

What is also certain is that Britain has become a key target."There is a very
high danger of an attack on Britain," says Garth Whitty, head of the Homeland
Security programme at the Royal United Services Institute. "Bin Laden's taped
message, even if it was not him, aimed a clear threat at Britain. We are a close
ally of the United States, we sent troops to Afghanistan and al-Qaeda has
attacked other countries in the alliance. Britain is top of the list for such an
attack."

There is no reason to assume London is al-Qaeda's only potential target.

"Al-Qaeda training manuals talk about a variety of targets. Attacks on nuclear
power stations, transportation systems, ports or hub airports could all disrupt
the life of the country," says Wilkinson.

There is strong evidence to support claims that bin Laden and his associates
have built up a dedicated al-Qaeda fleet of small freighters, operating on the
fringes of the shipping industry and there is concern that an organisation
capable of the suicide hijackings of airliners could readily adapt these
capabilities to major shipping targets.

These concerns were illustrated last December when the Special Boat Squadron,
the maritime SAS, intercepted and boarded the Nisha, an Indian-owned bulk
carrier, in the English Channel. It was bound for a sugar refinery in
Silvertown, near London's Canary Wharf financial district.

The authorities claimed to be acting on a tip that the ship was carrying
"terrorist materials" but three days of searching found nothing and it was
allowed to dock at the Thames terminal in early January.

That said, terrorist computer expertise seems mostly dedicated to communicating
securely among al-Qaeda cells. Cyber attacks would probably render them less
secure by focusing attention on their location. Al-Qaeda's global reach, its
meticulous planning, secure communications and adept terrorist craftwork make it
a daunting enemy. To foil its tactics the public have to be engaged in
counter-terrorism too.

"We squandered 14 months when there could have been a public education programme
on the threats posed by this new kind of nihilist terrorism,'' says Whitty.
"After September 11 we were complacent in the UK because we already thought we
were well equipped to cope with terrorism. During the IRA campaign the public
was engaged to report suspicious packages and suspicious movements. Now it has
to be prepared for the eventuality of chemical, biological and even nuclear
attacks."

Whitty proposes that panic and anxiety can be reduced by effective and open
public information programmes like the new anti-terrorist posters being
considered by the government.

"There is a balance between causing undue concern and reassuring people, but
things like chemical spills and accidents at nuclear plants do occur and we do
cope with them," says Whitty. The same with biological outbreaks, like foot-and
-mouth or an infected water system. When you divorce the consequences from their
association with terrorism there is no reason why we couldn't cope with an
unconventional attack."

That kind of talk makes a terrorist attack sound inevitable. Not necessarily,
says Whitty. "The intelligence services have done a good job so far. But it
doesn't matter how good you are at protection and prevention, sooner or later
someone will get through."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Montage: John Henderson

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           November 24, 2002, Sunday

Back in the lap of Luxor A terrorist attack kept tourists away from the Valley
of the Kings, but they are now returning in droves. Max Davidson joins the
throng

BYLINE: By Max Davidson

SECTION: Pg. 03

LENGTH: 1337 words

Tourists are nervous creatures. I was once talking to a holiday rep on the Greek
island of Kos, who told me that bookings were down 15 per cent. People had
confused Kos with Kosovo. If an accident of nomenclature can have that sort of
impact, imagine the problems Luxor has been experiencing. It was here, in 1997,
that 62 tourists were massacred by terrorists while visiting a temple. Bookings
plummeted.

Five years on, the tourists are back - not in dribs and drabs, but in droves.
Joining the throngs making their way to the Valley of the Kings, near where the
atrocity took place, was oddly inspiring. The presence of armed guards was not
going to deter people from going about their lawful business. Their guidebooks
and their cameras were like gestures of defiance. Terrorism had failed.

It would have been tragic if it had succeeded because the Valley of the Kings is
one of the sacred places of Africa. The tourists converging on it, some by boat,
some by coach, had more the air of pilgrims than sightseers. One intrepid group
arrived by donkey, having travelled over dusty mountain roads, just as they
would have done 3,000 years ago.

The surrounding landscape was bleak and uncompromising, a far cry from the busy
metropolis of Luxor, on the other bank of the Nile. In the early-morning light,
the limestone cliffs were a dull yellow, barely distinguishable from the grey
skies above. A few mud-brick shops and houses were dotted along the road. Dogs
barked in the distance.

"Look," said our tour guide. "That is the house where Howard Carter lived." It
was nothing much, just a nondescript bungalow on a small hillock, but I could
feel my pulse quickening. If it was the pharaohs who made Egypt great, it was a
mad, pig-headed Englishman who made the Valley of the Kings famous around the
world.

"I will find the Tomb of Tutankhamun," he had promised. "Not a chance," said the
experts. Six years later, in 1922, having burrowed like a demented mole, he did
find it. Most of the treasures from the tomb, including the famous gold death
mask, are now in the Egyptian museum in Cairo. But even the little that remains
- the gilded mummy-case in the sarcophagus, the exquisitely decorated walls, as
rich as any Italian fresco - is impressive enough.

Descending into the bowels of the earth, like Carter, and coming face to face
with history, was a haunting experience. All the other tombs in the valley were
plundered of their treasures years ago: you can only imagine what they were like
when they were built. But they are still sufficiently splendid to bring a lump
to the throat. The intricate hieroglyphics on the walls, meticulously executed,
tell their own story.

For the ancient Egyptians, more than any other people in history, death was not
the end, but the beginning; and the care with which they committed the bodies of
their rulers to these ornate underground resting places will strike a chord with
people of any religion or none.

From the Valley of the Kings, we drove to the nearby temple of Queen Hatshepsut.
There were not supposed to be queens in Egypt in the 15th century BC. This lady
got around the problem by dressing like a man. She obviously took her
transvestism seriously. In contemporary murals, she is always depicted with a
beard.

Her mortuary temple, hewn partly out of the rock, is one of the greatest of all
Egyptian monuments. Its stark colonnades, sustaining a three-tier structure,
have a massive dignity. This is where the terrorist incident took place in 1997;
but restoration work was continuing apace, with huge slabs of rock being dragged
up the hill by teams of local workmen, singing as they heaved. The message was
clear: life goes on.

By now, the sun was at its zenith, and it was time to find an air-conditioned
bar on the banks of the Nile, then flop out by the hotel pool. Pure bliss - but
only for a time. Luxor is not one of those places where one whizzes round the
cultural sites, then starts the holiday. The sites are the holiday. They are
astonishing, exhilarating, moreish in the way that good food is moreish.

The pharaohs built their tombs on the west bank of the Nile because it was where
the sun set. On the east bank they built monuments which would glorify their
greatness while they were still alive: massive temples, soaring obelisks,
statues of awe-inspiring proportions.

To go from the temple of Luxor, which was pretty mind-boggling, to the even more
mind-boggling temple at Karnak was an experience I will carry with me all my
life. The two temples are only a few miles apart and, in ancient times, were
linked by an avenue of sphinxes, some of which still survive. It must have been
a stirring walk, with the river on one side and an absolute feast of monumental
architecture on the other.

We were lucky to have a first-class guide: a young Egyptologist who was steeped
in ancient history, who could interpret what we were seeing and explain the
rudiments of Egyptian religion and architecture, while seasoning his scholarship
with humour. But even without his tutelage, the grandeur of what the pharaohs
had achieved and their largeness of vision would have made an overwhelming
impression.

On our last day, on the spur of the moment, we took a balloon ride over the
Valley of the Kings. It was the first such trip I had taken and I was
captivated. There was not a breath of wind and Hod-Hod, our guide, had to keep
pumping gas into the balloon to keep us moving at all. But the views across the
valley were stupendous, with the Nile on one side and the mountains on the
other. The early-morning sun seemed to tiptoe into the sky, at first barely
kissing the tops of the mountains, then flooding the whole landscape with light.

Luxury cruise ships, dozens and dozens of them, were moored on the banks of the
river. Beyond them, we could see Luxor, with its temples and minarets. A lorry
weaved its way angrily through the traffic. Beneath us, in the green fields on
the edge of the desert, all was calm. The faintest of mists hovered just above
the ground. A solitary camel plodded along the road, led by an old man in a
turban. "Hold on tight," said Hod-Hod. "We are coming down."

The balloon was heading towards a field of sugar cane on the outskirts of a
village. Villagers were already hard at work, hacking down the cane with their
machetes, then bundling it on to the back of donkeys. Children played football
in the corner of the field. They could probably have done without a balloon-load
of tourists landing on their crops.

Yet as our basket hit the ground, we were surrounded by a hundred smiling faces.
Hands were shaken, cups of tea dispensed. I was asked my name by people I would
never meet again.

Egyptians are realists. They know Luxor will take time to shed its infamous
past. But they are going the right way about it.
essentials

Getting there

Packaged Egyptian specialists Discover Egypt (020 7407 2111;
www.discoveregypt.co.uk) offers seven nights' b & b in Luxor, including flights
and transfers, staying in a choice of four-star hotels, from pounds 329; a
selection of five-star accommodation costs an additional pounds 20 for the seven
days. Libra Holidays (0870 066 4817; www.libraholidays.co.uk) offers seven
nights' b & b from pounds 395 per person between December 9 and 15.

Unpackaged If you're travelling from the UK, you are better off buying a package
- Egyptair has just one direct flight to Luxor a week while other scheduled
airlines will only fly you as far as Cairo. Accommodation is easier to arrange:
The Winter Palace, built for the Khedive of Egypt in 1886, next to the Temple of
Luxor, has doubles from pounds 132 per night in mid December. A cheaper option
is Sofitel's New Winter Palace, on the banks of the Nile and half a mile from
the city centre, with doubles from pounds 86 per night. Book both through
Sofitel (0870 609 0964; www.sofitel.com).

Balloon trips Book your balloon flight through your hotel during your stay.
One-hour trips cost from about pounds 145.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                           November 24, 2002, Sunday

GAS FEAR AMERICANS BUY UP OUR CANARIES;
 TERROR ATTACK EARLY WARNING

BYLINE: Fionnuala Bourke CHEAP TRICK ... Canaries are being snapped up in their
thousands

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 515 words


MIDLAND bird breeders are spitting feathers because thousands of canaries are
being snapped up by Americans terrified of nerve gas attacks by terrorists.

The jumpy Yanks believe the colourful song birds could be life-savers in the
event of an Al Qaida strike involving lethal toxic gases.

The tiny birds are hyper-sensitive to gases which are colourless and odourless
to human beings.

The birds would die from poisoning immediately, but may just give their owners a
vital few seconds to escape.

Years ago, canaries prevented thousands of miners from being poisoned to death
by carbon monoxide as they worked thousands of feet below ground.

Bird breeders preparing for next weekend's National Cage & Aviary Birds
Exhibition at the National Exhibition Centre revealed that Americans have been
importing male canaries in their thousands since the September 11 World Trade
Centre atrocities.

Now Australians, stunned by the horrors of the Bali bomb and fearful of more
terrorist atrocities, have also begun importing the birds.

They are only interested in the males or cocks, whose respiratory systems are
highly sensitive to dangerous toxins. It causes their feathers to ruffle before
they collapse and die. But the result is that there is now a surplus of single
females or hens left in the Midlands without a mate.

One Midland breeder, who asked not to be named, said: 'Supplies of the cock
canaries, which are especially sensitive to the gases and chemicals, are being
bought up in their thousands.

'Breeders across the continent have been approached for their birds by Americans
and Australians.

'The trend is especially apparent in Belgium where canary breeding is very
popular, but it has affected Midland breeders too.

'It is alarming to think that these countries are so concerned by the
possibility of another terrorist attack that they are using these birds for
protection.'

The birds, first bred in the Canary Islands, were used by miners for hundreds of
years to alert them to poisonous carbon monoxide.

The miners would often carry emergency oxygen supplies for use to make an escape
should the birds be killed by the 'silent killer' gas.

Organisers of the National Cage & Aviary Birds Exhibition said last night they
were aware of the increase in exports of canaries to America.

Meanwhile Britain remained on high alert as security forces extended their
vigilance to guard against terrorist attacks.

Government sources dismissed last weekend's reports that MI5 had foiled a plot
to attack London Underground with cyanide.

But three men have been charged under the Terrorism Act 2000 for the possession
of articles for the preparation, instigation and commission of terrorist acts.

And people have been urged to be extra vigilant over suspicious activity as they
prepare for Christmas.

The last major terrorist gas attack carried out on an underground system was in
Japan seven years ago.

The Supreme Truth cult released Sarin nerve gas in the Tokyo underground in
1995, killing 12 and injuring another 5,500.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                               November 25, 2002

Mark Thomas pooh-poohs the plot to gas us; The government is trying to alarm you
about terrorist attacks just as the weapons inspectors go into Iraq. But you can
support legal action that may stop this war, writes Mark Thomas

BYLINE: Mark Thomas

LENGTH: 817 words


You can tell that we are in the middle of a PR war on Iraq by one simple thing:
it is now virtually impossible to buy a newspaper without a double-page
pull-out-and-keep guide to potential terror threats. They normally come complete
with an analysis of how a 'dirty bomb' could affect London property prices and a
fashion feature on 'what's hot and what's not' in the world of gas masks.
Meanwhile, Tony Blair manages the difficult trick of making the public more
tense by telling everyone to try to carry on as normal, which has the calculated
calming effect of Corporal Jones screaming: 'Don't panic!'

Throughout the 'Gas attack planned for London Underground!' articles that filled
the papers this past week, it was conveniently forgotten that Tube and train
passengers stand more chance of being killed in a rail crash than by a chemical
weapon. Lack of investment, commercial pressures, failure to deliver automatic
train protection, subcontracting maintenance work - all could play a part in the
next train carnage. In the wake of the Potters Bar crash, Jarvis, the firm
responsible for maintaining the track where the crash happened, claimed that
someone had sabotaged the track. After the next disaster, whatever company is
involved will no doubt claim to have seen Asians with prayer mats, AK-47s and
large posters of Osama Bin Laden near the site.

At this point in time, there is more published, credible evidence to prove the
existence of the tooth fairy than there is for the existence of a plot to gas
the Tube. For Blair and his allies in the right-wing press (the Sunday Times, in
this instance), it appears that what is relevant is not the facts, nor indeed
any awareness of justice for the three men they fingered for the alleged plot.
The real effect of the coverage, whether by design or by coincidence, is that
fears about chemical weapons attacks are stoked just as the UN weapons
inspectors go into Iraq. The end result is to link Iraq with public fears of
being attacked; thus, it forms part of Blair's PR offensive* to convince us of
the rightness of war.

For roughly 40 per cent of the British populace, the war on Iraq remains
immoral, illogical and illegal. This is why on Tuesday 19 November, CND took
action at least to begin to rectify one of those faults. They served letters on
Tony Blair, Geoff Hoon and Jack Straw, warning them that they will face a legal
challenge unless they give a written undertaking that the UK will not use force
on Iraq without going back to the UN Security Council.

At first glance, this may not seem very important, but unless the government
responds within seven days CND will take it to court.

This is hugely significant. It is the first time that a group of citizens is
going to challenge legally its government's means of going to war. Sure, someone
in the US may have taken their government to court over a war in the past, but
Americans are so litigious that lawyers there have loyalty reward cards and you
can collect frequent-litigant air miles. For the UK at least, this is a first.

Blair's government has been making qualified noises about how UN Security
Council Resolution 1441 may be a legal mechanism with which to start military
action against Iraq, but it knows it has to appear reasonable.

Geoff Hoon is an unlikely diplomat in these matters, looking as he does like a
supply teacher who's just had six months off work due to stress-related illness.
So it has been left mainly to Jack Straw to recite the government mantra that
Britain will be bound by international law. However, legal opinion obtained on
CND's behalf from Rabinder Singh QC and Charlotte Kilroy, both of Matrix
Chambers, clearly shows there is no automatic trigger mechanism in the
resolution allowing any country to use military action. In fact, the phrases
from past resolutions on Kuwait and Bosnia that have been taken to mean military
action are conspicuous by their absence in Resolution 1441, because the US and
UK delegations fought to have those phrases included, but lost.

CND's legal action may force Britain to return to the UN to seek a clear
resolution for military action. This move in itself does not stop the war
against Iraq; nor does it justify the war if the UN tidies up its legal
paperwork. However, at a time when reports predict half a million deaths from
any conflict and its aftermath, we have a moral obligation to oppose the war
with every tool available to us, and at least try to expose the lie of legality.
Better that than roll over, do nothing and let the Sunday Times propaganda take
its awful toll.

Donations to the CND fund to take the UK government to court can be made direct
to the Co-op Bank, sort code 089033, account number 50425088.

* Please note that simple Iraqi people are subjected to propaganda, but
sophisticated westerners are subjected to marketing campaigns and strategies


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2002 New Statesman Ltd

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 27, 2002, Wednesday

TERROR SUSPECT MAY HAVE BEEN PLANNING ATTACK IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: John Lichfield In Paris Richard Reid: Focus on his time spent in France

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 367 words


AN ISLAMIST terrorist suspect arrested near Paris this week may have been
planning an attack in Britain, according to French investigators.

The arrest of Slimane Khalfaoui north of Paris on Monday was followed by a
round-up of six people in the French capital yesterday. The six, who included a
Pakistani mullah, are suspected of having helped Richard Reid, the British
alleged "shoe-bomber" charged in the US with attempting to blow up a Paris-Miami
flight last Christmas.

It was not immediately clear if there were connections between the arrests and
other captures of alleged al-Qa'ida activists in the Paris area in recent days,
including Mr Khalfaoui and another so-called "big fish", Redouane Daoud, who
escaped from prison in the Netherlands in June. French investigators said the
arrests - although fitting into the same broad picture of alleged Islamist
terror activity in Europe - came from separate investigations.

The French interior minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, was jubilant about the arrests.
He described them as a "tres belle affaire" (very fine thing) and paid tribute
to the "quality of the French security services".

The arrest of Mr Khalfaoui, 27, a Franco-Algerian, in a raid by 100 police
officers on his sister's home in Seine-Saint Denis on Monday is regarded as
especially significant by French investigators.

Mr Khalfaoui is said to be a close ally of an Algerian arrested in London and
accused of planning terrorist acts, possibly including an attack on the London
Underground.

Internal EU documents and a French intelligence report leaked earlier this month
have identified Britain as the most likely target for an al-Qa'ida attack in
Europe. French investigators believe Mr Khalfaoui may have been a link-man, or a
possible future "operative" in such an attack.

w Malaysia announced the arrest of three men yesterday, suspected of plotting to
carry out suicide truck bomb attacks on the British, American and Australian
embassies in Singapore, and a fourth alleged associate. The plot was thwarted
last December and January but the organisation survived, and is accused of
carrying out the October bombings in Bali, killing nearly 200 people.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                          November 27, 2002 Wednesday

GOVERNMENT CHASES COUNCILS FOR DISASTER/TERRORIST ATTACK PLANS

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 631  words



HIGHLIGHT: Conservatives say a leaked e-mail to local authority emergency
planning...


Conservatives say a leaked e-mail to local authority emergency planningofficers
shows the government is unprepared for any disaster or terroristattack, BBC
Radio Four's Today programme reported this morning.The e-mail from the Cabinet
Office went to local authorities in theYorkshire area, asking what plans they
had for evacuation and othermeasures.Local government minister Nick Raynsford,
who heads the group which has beenplanning London's response to an emergency,
told Today 'an enormous amountof work' has been done since 11 September
2001.'One of the conclusions we came to was that not necessarily every part
ofthe country had put in place arrangements that were as thorough and robustas
in London', he said. 'So it was perfectly reasonable to check with
localauthorities in other parts of the country whether their arrangements were
asgood as they should be'.A press release from the Conservative party
follows:Oliver Letwin exposes Government's amateurish approach to terrorist
threatThe Conservative Party today makes public an e-mail sent on November 20
from the Government office for Yorks & Humber to emergency planning officers in
the region.Commenting on the e-mail, the shadow home secretary Oliver Letwin
said:'This document is extremely disturbing. It suggests that the government's
plans for dealing with a major terrorist incident are amateurish and
disorganised, and that remarkably little has been done since the September 11
attack nearly 15 months ago.'Last week I renewed my call for a single weighty
political figure to be made responsible for all aspects of homeland defence.

This document demonstrates how important it is that the prime minister gives
urgent consideration to the need for improved coordination.'Text of e-mail sent
to emergency planning officers at Barnsley, Bradford, Calderdale, Doncaster,
East Rising, Kirklees, Leeds, North Yorks, Rotherham, Sheffield, Wakefield and
York.From: CHRISTINE MORTONSent: 20 November 2002 16:45Subject: Information
requested for the Cabinet CommitteeDue to the current situation, Ministers,
including No 10, are taking a keen interest in Emergency Planning and the
country's ability to cope in the event of a large scale disaster. Sir David
Omand has asked the Government Offices to contact you, our Local Authority
contacts and ask the following questions:- Do you have plans in place to deal
with large masses of debris -rubble, etc?- Have you identified disposal routes
(presumably landfill sites) that could take large masses of debris?- Have you
identified contractors who would be able to move debris?- Do you have plans in
place to deal with mass evacuations from majorcentres of population (centres of
over 250,000 people)?- What areas are covered by these plans (e.g. business
district only,full city centre, etc)?- Have these plans been reviewed to take
account of the higher levelof threat since 9/11?This information is required for
the Cabinet Committee meeting on 2ndDecember and we have been asked to provide
our Yorkshire and theHumber return by close of play next Monday 25th November.I
would be grateful if you could advise me of the position in yourpatch.I would
also be interested to know whether you have had requests forsimilar information
recently, as like you I am anxious to avoidduplication and unnecessary work. If
you have, I will feedback to theappropriate level to try to avoid such
occurrences in the future.Thank you for your input during the 2 days fire strike
last week. WeAre preparing for strike going ahead on Friday so I will be
preparingBriefing for COBR from tomorrow and over the week-end. If you have
information which you want me to include in the reports please contact me on the
above e-mail address.If you want to discuss please give me a
call.ChristineGOYHLeeds

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2002 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               November 28, 2002

Children killed in terror attacks on hotel and plane

BYLINE: PA News reporters

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 534 words


AN explosion rocked an hotel filled with Israelis in Mombasa, Kenya, today and a
missile was fired at an Israeli aircraft in the area, officials said.

Early reports said at least ten people had been killed in the blast, including
two children, and many more people were injured.

The plane, which had just taken off from Mombasa airport with 270 people on
board, was lightly damaged but continued to Israel after initially planning an
emergency landing in Nairobi.

Both the missile attack and the explosion came at about 7am.

Reports said a car crashed through a barrier outside the Israeli-owned hotel,
and that explosives were apparently thrown at the building from the vehicle. The
blast did not cause major damage, the report said.

"I heard a loud explosion, " an Israeli hotel guest, identified only as Rami,
told Israel TV's Channel Two.

Another guest, Osnat, said there were wounded, including a number of children.

Some of the wounded were taken to a nearby small hospital.

The plane is owned by Israel's Arkia charter company.

The pilot had seen a flash of light on the left side of the plane, said an Arkia
official, Shlomo Hanael.

More than 230 people were killed and four thousand wounded when a massive truck
bomb levelled the US embassy in the centre of the Kenyan capital Nairobi on
August 7, 1998.

That attack, and one the same day at the US embassy in neighbouring Tanzania,
were blamed on Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terror network.

Officials said the Israeli air force would evacuate the wounded from Kenya.

Israeli embassy officials arrived at the hotel to protect the Israeli guests.

All flights from foreign airports by El Al, the national carrier, were suspended
according to a broadcast by Radio Israel.

Meanwhile, Australia and Canada today closed their embassies in the Philippines
capital Manila following a series of terrorist threats Armed police closed
streets, set up barricades and circled the Australian Embassy after both it and
the Canadian mission were closed.

Australian foreign minister Alexander Downer said Canberra had received a "very
specific" intelligence report last night that warned of threats by Islamic
militants.

"It is not only location specific, targeting the Australian embassy itself, but
also it's time specific in the sense that we are talking over the next few days,
" Mr Downer told Australian Broadcasting Corporation radio.

He said threats had also been made against targets linked to other nations but
he declined to identify them, saying he would leave that up to the Philippines.

Canada closed its mission "for an indefinite period of time", according to a
recorded telephone message at the embassy.

A foreign ministry official in Ottawa referred a reporter to a Canadian
government website that said "threats against Canadians and Canadian interests
in the Philippines have heightened and there has been an upsurge in bombings".

The US Embassy in Manila was closed today for the Thanksgiving holiday and no
one was answering the phone.

Police Chief Jovito Gutierrez told reporters outside the Australian mission: "I
don't think there's a problem with security."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          November 28, 2002, Thursday

CHILDREN HURT IN TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 135 words


An explosion rocked a hotel filled with Israelis in Mombasa, Kenya and a missile
was fired at an Israeli aircraft in the area.

Guest at the popular Paradise Hotel said several people, including children,
were hurt in the blast.

The plane, which had just taken off from Mombasa airport with 270 people on
board, was damaged but continued to Israel after initially landing in Nairobi.

Both the missile attack and the explosion came in the early hours of today.

Reports said a car crashed through a barrier outside the Israeli-owned hotel,
and that explosives were apparently thrown at the building from the vehicle. The
blast did not cause major damage.

AUSTRALIA and Canada today closed their embassies in Manila, the capital of the
Philippines, following a series of terrorist threats.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          November 28, 2002, Thursday

CHILDREN KILLED IN HOTEL TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 139 words


TWO Israeli children were among several people killed today when a suspected car
bomb rocked a resort hotel filled with Israelis in Mombasa, Kenya.

Israeli Foreign Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the two had died in the
apparent suicide attack on the Israeli-owned Paradise Hotel. Reports put the
death toll as high as 11, including several Kenyans.

At about the same time, at least one missile was fired at, but missed, an
Israeli plane that had just taken off from the coastal resort.

Netanyahu said he had no information about who was behind the double attack, but
suspicion immediately fell on al-Qaida terrorists.

The bombing occurred at about 08: 00am (0500 GMT).

AUSTRALIA and Canada today closed their embassies in Manila, the capital of the
Philippines, following a series of terrorist threats.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          November 28, 2002, Thursday

TERROR ATTACK ALERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 82 words


THE Government was yesterday accused of a lack of urgency in preparing for
possible terrorist attack after the leak of an e-mail asking local councils if
they are ready to cope.

The e-mail was released by shadow home secretary Oliver Letwin. who said it
revealed "incoherence" at the heart of Government. more than a year after the
September 11 atrocities. But local government minister Nick Raynsford insisted
the message was simply a reflection of the Government's thoroughness.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 28, 2002

Gold attacks Welsh 'terror' calls

BYLINE: Neil Moxley

SECTION: Pg. 91

LENGTH: 413 words


BIRMINGHAM City are ready to call in police after Robbie Savage and Steve Bruce
received threatening phone calls from Wales fans as the club-versuscountry row
dogging the club continues to escalate.

Chairman David Gold will take action if manager Bruce or Savage press for the
matter to be taken further.

The threats followed midfielder Savage's call-up to Mark Hughes' squad for the
Euro 2004 qualifier in Azerbaijan last week. Hughes tried to invoke the four-day
rule, ensuring Savage was spared from playing for Birmingham against Fulham.

However, after FIFA intervened following a complaint from City, Savage played
and suffered a groin injury that ruled him out of the Welsh trip.

Some in the Principality feel there is a conspiracy against them, leading to the
Birmingham pair's phone numbers being posted on a website. The threats follow
similar calls made to Newcastle United manager Sir Bobby Robson over his
handling of Wales striker Craig Bellamy.

Gold said: 'The people who have done this are cowards. They are little more than
terrorists.

'They are the scum of the earth.

I've had problems of my own in the past with Combat 18, so I know exactly what
Steve and Robbie are going through.

'Robbie is a terrific guy. He would have walked barefoot over broken glass from
Birmingham to Wales to play for them.

'What's more, my colleague at Birmingham, David Sullivan, is Welsh. Do people
seriously believe he did not want Robbie Savage playing for his country?

'As for getting at Steve Bruce, that's quite preposterous. Steve counts Mark
Hughes as a friend.

He wants Wales to qualify but he is paid to look after Birmingham City's best
interests.' Savage said: 'I've taken about four calls at home and it's
upsetting, particularly as my wife is expecting a baby and they were at all
times of the night.

'It's not nice when the phone goes in the middle of the night because most
people would think something untoward has happened to your nearest and dearest.

'What has upset me more is how anyone could question my commitment given the
part I've helped play in Welsh successes.

'Anyway, they can't be that brave because when you answer back they just put the
phone down.' Hughes added: 'Steve (Bruce) understands what happens in football
at times but it's not a good time for relations between Welsh fans and
Birmingham. I think people need to understand that clubs have responsibilities
towards their players.'


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 28, 2002

TERROR ATTACK PLANS 'AMATEURISH'

BYLINE: By Rachel Baird Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 186 words


GOVERNMENT plans to deal with a terror strike were yesterday called "amateurish
and disorganised" after the leak of an e-mail sent to councils.

Local authorities were asked what plans they had for mass evacuation, and
whether sites had been identified for dumping rubble.

But the message infuriated council officials who have had no extra money for
emergency planning since September 11.

Conservative home affairs spokesman Oliver Letwin said: "It suggests that the
Government's plans for dealing with a major terrorist incident are amateurish
and disorganised."

Local government minister Nick Raynsford told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the
e-mail shows the Government is "responding thoughtfully and intelligently to the
huge challenge of terrorism".

The Home Office said in a statement: "We have been planning for large-scale
emergencies since before the events of September 11, and building the core
capabilities required to respond." It said the e-mail sent on behalf of security
and intelligence coordinator Sir David Omand shows "he is doing exactly the job
he was appointed to do".

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                               November 28, 2002

Get Ready For Terror Attack

SECTION: News; Other; Letters; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 331 words


Madam - I felt slight reassurance to read that Janet Frost, chairwoman of the
Gloucestershire Community Health Council, is agitating for more preparation for
a possible terrorist attack (Echo, November 19).  Her comments follow a report
which shows family doctors and small hospitals are ill-equipped to deal with
such a major incident.

Gloucestershire is in a prime position for an attack, with GCHQ, the most
publicised secret listening post in the world, sitting in our midst and the
flight path of US planes from Fairford.

It is scandalous that hospitals and surgeries apparently have little idea what
to expect, or the equipment for treatment following such an attack.

It is unbelievable that a full-scale simulation exercise is not planned until
2005, although Avon and Wiltshire hope to stage one in 2003.

Sorry Sadda, you can't come yet. We don't have the time to practise.

Anthony Dallimore, spokesman for the Primary Care Trusts, which are responsible
for GP surgeries, small hospitals and medical centres, tries to reassure us that
plans are afoot and says a desktop simulation has taken place.

This does not inspire a lot of confidence. Are his plans sufficient and does
anybody know about them?  He won't have time to give instructions when it
happens.

Looking at the world map and at the size of Britain compared with the US, I
still cannot believe that our country has been put in this situation.

Does the mighty US really need tiny little Britain?  Would this be happening
without the strong and passionate friendship of Mr Blair and Mr Bush?  Have they
really thought out the consequences of biological and nuclear warfare or is it
all a matter of principle?  Neither war with Iraq or even the death of Saddam
Hussein will stop the terrorists who are now on a roll.

I hope Mrs Frost will continue with every urgency to improve plans for the
future safety of the people of Cheltenham.

Name supplied, Charlton Kings.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Gloucestershire Echo

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          November 28, 2002, Thursday

MINISTERS ACCUSED OVER TERROR ATTACK E-MAIL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 214 words


THE Government was yesterday accused of a lack of urgency in preparing for
possible terrorist attack after the leak of an e-mail asking local councils if
they are ready to cope.

The e-mail from the Government's Security and Intelligence Co-ordinator, Sir
David Omand, was released by Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin, who said it
revealed "incoherence" at the heart of Government more than a year after the
September 11 atrocities.

But local government minister Nick Raynsford insisted the message was simply a
reflection of the Government's thoroughness in assessing Britain's state of
readiness.

Sir David's message to several local authorities in Yorkshire asked whether they
had arrangements in place to clear large amounts of rubble and evacuate up to
250,000 people in the event of an attack.

A note at the end of the e-mail asked if any other Government departments had
been asking similar questions recently.

Mr Letwin said, "It seems to suggest that these questions, which I would have
expected to have been asked in October or November after last September, are now
being asked a year later and that the Government coordinator doesn't have enough
information on a co-ordinated basis to know which other government departments
are asking what."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               November 28, 2002

Check on drill for Yorkshire terror attack 'a year too late'

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 538 words


THE Government was yesterday accused of a lack of urgency in preparing for a
possible terrorist attack after a leaked e-mail revealed Yorkshire councils were
being asked just one week ago if they were ready to cope.




The e-mail from Government Security and Intelligence Co-Ordinator Sir David
Omand was released by Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin, who said it revealed
incoherence more than a year after the September 11 atrocities.

Sir David's message to emergency planning officers at Barnsley, Bradford,
Calderdale, Doncaster, East Riding, Kirklees, Leeds, North Yorkshire, Rotherham,
Sheffield, Wakefield and York asked whether they had arrangements in place to
clear large amounts of rubble and evacuate up to 250,000 people in the event of
an attack.

It was sent on November 20 and asked the authorities' emergency planning
officers to reply by November 25 so the information could be used at a December
2 Cabinet committee meeting.

It goes on to thank the officers for their input during the first 48-hour fire
strike and at the end asks if any other Government departments had been asking
similar questions recently.

Mr Letwin said: It seems to suggest these questions, which I would have expected
to have been asked in October or November after last September, are now being
asked a year later and that the Government co-ordinator doesn't have enough
information to know which other Government departments are asking what.

That suggests the level of co-ordination is too low.

Mr Letwin said the leaked e-mail came after a string of indications of confusion
in the Government's anti-terror operations.

Earlier this month, the Home Office sounded an alert that Islamic terrorists
might use dirty bombs or attack transport infrastructure, then immediately
withdrew the statement and replaced it with a blander warning.

There was confusion over reports that ferry ports had been put on high alert and
claims that a gas attack on the London Underground had been foiled.

Mr Letwin said: We have been seeing over the last few weeks muddled
announcements and the revelation that nobody had a very clear idea of what to do
about the fire service if there was an emergency and the revelation that the NHS
is not prepared.

Now this e-mail shows that over the last year not much has been done.

There is not the sense of urgency and degree of co-ordination one would expect.

A Government spokeswoman for the Yorkshire area, Wendy Miller, insisted the
e-mail had been sent as part of an on-going programme to ensure the country was
primed for any possible threat.

She said Yorkshire was no more at risk than any other part of the country.

She said the e-mail showed the Government was being extra vigilant. She said: We
have been planning for large-scale emergencies since before the events of
September 11, and building the core capabilities required to respond.

Two of these capabilities are evacuation and rubble disposal. The e-mail sent to
local authorities shows he is doing exactly the job he was appointed to do -
checking the progress of ongoing work and ensuring the best possible
co-ordination between local authorities and government departments.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

WAR ON TERRORISM: INDUSTRY FEARS MISSILE ATTACK ON PLANES FULL OF PASSENGERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 307 words


A missile attack on a passenger plane is something the aviation industry has
long feared, experts said yesterday.

They also agreed that there was little that could be done to prevent such
attacks, except the exercise of extreme vigilance at all times.

'This type of attack has long been expected by a lot of people in the aviation
industry,' said Kieran Daly, editor of Internet company Air Transport
Intelligence.

'The IRA did launch a missile attack on Heathrow airport in the early 1990s, but
the big worry, especially in the 1970s and 1980s, was that the IRA would try to
shoot a plane down. 'El Al is a particular target and this kind of thing is
extremely worrying for the airline as it is so difficult to defend against.

'Planes can be armed with flares that can fired so that the missile follows the
flare rather than the aircraft, but the missiles are pretty sophisticated.'

Mr Daly added: 'This kind of attack can only be countered by law enforcement.
There is little that the aviation industry can do.'

David Learmount, operations and safety editor of Flight International magazine,
said: 'Everyone knew that something like this could happen. If it comes to a
situation where we believethere are organisations that have declared war, then
we have to provide defences as if there is a war. But one wonders if we have the
manpower to do that.

'I don't think people should stop travelling by air. We live with so much danger
these days. Personally, I think people will still be happy to fly, despite this
latest incident.'

Last year, a Russian passenger aircraft was accidentally shot down by a missile
in the Ukraine. In December 2000, a Sabena Airbus aircraft was hit by machine
gun fire as it landed at Bujumbura in Burundi in Africa. Two passengers and one
cabin crew member was slightly hurt.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 29, 2002

Fears on terror attack at N-site;
 Green groups slam 'inadequate' 999 preparations

BYLINE: NICK PEARSON

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.2

LENGTH: 346 words


ENVIRONMENTALISTS have warned of "inadequate" emergency preparations against any
terrorist attack on Hinkley Point nuclear power station, less than five miles
from Burnham-on-Sea.

A new study by respected independent nuclear consultants Large and Associates
reveals that an attack or accident at the plant - just across the bay from the
resort - would affect residents across the whole region within hours.

But despite the government identifying nuclear power stations as potential
terrorist targets, the newly-drafted contingency plans do not reflect that.

To make matters worse emergency planners have not yet published vital safety
information about what to do in a nuclear emergency.

Green groups have reacted strongly to the news. Stop Hinkley co-ordinator Jim
Duffy said the report confirmed the group's view that the plans leave too many
questions unanswered.

He said: "It is only common sense that radiation will not stop at two miles
after an accident, and the emergency services would be stretched beyond human
capacity to evacuate the tens of thousands who could be contaminated.

"After September 11 it's time to wind down the nuclear industry."

Somerset County Council, which is responsible for the emergency plan, is under
an obligation to "prepare, revise, implement and test plans for a nuclear
incident".

This involves plans to get safety information to the public, to distribute
potassium iodate tablets, to protect against some cancers, and to evacuate areas
where necessary. But the council missed the deadline to issue updated emergency
plans.

David Lewis, Somerset emergency planning manager, said this had been due to the
size of the administrative task.

The revised plan would be available from libraries in about three weeks. He said
his department was only obliged to make emergency plans for areas laid down by
the Nuclear Installation Inspectorate.

He said it made no difference in outcome whether the new plan acknowledged a
terrorist attack because the result would be the same.

n.pearson@bepp.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Paradise turned into a hellish reminder of home for
Israelis: Hotel bomb Survivors fled screaming to the sea as building went up in
flames

BYLINE: Gerard Seenan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 935 words


The Kenyan sun had not long risen on the first day of the Israeli tourists'
holiday when they arrived at the hotel. Children and their parents mixed with
couples on Hanukkah vacation at the Paradise hotel's reception.

Anticipation must have filled the air: in front of the tourists lay miles of
white beaches, the Indian Ocean and glorious weather - the troubles of home left
a thousand miles behind.

At the check-in a troupe of traditional dancers greeted them to relieve the
tedium of the queues. The tourists had endured a long, early-morning flight, but
the holiday of a lifetime awaited them. Within five minutes or so, by 8.30am,
most of the tourists had picked up their keys and were already in their rooms.
They were the lucky ones.

Outside a four-wheel drive vehicle was approaching the hotel's security gate. It
was 8.35am and the guards motioned for the car to stop. It didn't.

Instead the all-terrain vehicle careered straight through the barrier. "I saw it
forcing its way into the gate," said a barman at the hotel across the road from
the Paradise. "It had three people of Arabic origin and after it got to the
reception I heard an explosion."

The sound of the explosion was, thankfully, all that most of the tourists
witnessed of the terrible scene being played out in reception.

After breaking through the security barrier, the car sped down the hotel's
driveway, stopping as close to the reception as it could. Immediately, one man
jumped out. In the middle of the hotel reception he blew himself up. Inside the
car, his two colleagues followed suit: three suicide bombers had detonated
explosives in the Paradise. The devastation was instant.

Almost as soon as the bombs exploded, the front of the hotel collapsed. In the
reception lay the dead and the injured.

"People were cut up in the legs, arms, all over their bodies. Everything was
burned up," one witness told Israeli radio. And then there was also the
overwhelming sound of fear.

"I saw people covered with blood, including children. Everyone seemed to be
screaming," Kelly Hartog, a journalist with the Jerusalem Post, told the
newspaper's website. "People were screaming for water, but there was no water
and the tap water was undrinkable . . . I tried to occupy myself tending to the
children. 'I want to go home,' they said. 'Where are my parents?'"

Wounded

Everyone tried to help. Nimrod Grissarov, an Israeli doctor on holiday with a
group of children celebrating a bar mitzvah, attended the walking wounded. "I
can tell you personally that I treated three victims who I would classify as
moderately wounded," he told Israeli Army Radio. "They had head injuries, a
kidney injury."

For many of those standing in the hotel reception, particularly the Kenyan
dancers, the injuries were far more serious. The Kenyan journalist Victor Mwasi
said he saw seven bodies, four burned beyond recognition.

The fortunate ones who were in their rooms heard the explosion first. "I heard
'boom boom' and then all the windows blew out. I heard many people crying," one
told Kenyan television.

"We were lucky because we were only in the corner of the room when the glass
windows smashed," a female Israeli tourist said.

"There was a very big bomb near the lobby and the whole of the roof went on
fire," said another witness. "I think most of the people just heard the sound,
but some of the people got hurt and some of the dancers who were welcoming us
got hurt."

As soon as they knew what was happening, those tourists who could headed for the
safety of the beach. The wounded gathered on the beach or in the grounds, as the
charred remains of the hotel smouldered. "The fire started very quickly," a
witness said. "We got up and went to the sea."

Ambulances and doctors arrived; some people were taken to a local hospital, the
more serious casualties to Mombasa.

The hotel staff who were uninjured did what they could. Said Mashauri, the hotel
manager, had been on the beach when the bombs exploded, and took seven seriously
wounded people to hospital, two of whom were taken straight into intensive care.

The sound of police sirens completed the scene: the local police helped the
injured while Kenyan paramilitary forces scanned the area for evidence.

Despite the devastation all around, the tourists sat together on the ground and
counted their blessings, they said - they knew they were very lucky to be alive.

Thursday morning was the busiest day of the week at the Israeli-owned hotel: the
bombers obviously knew this was when new arrivals checked in. But though the
attack appears to have been carefully planned, a matter of minutes saved the
tourists from death and injury on a far greater scale.

"Had it been five minutes earlier when everyone was in the hotel lobby it could
have been much, much worse," one witness told BBC News 24. "Many of those who
were wounded were wounded by falling glass when the windows shattered and the
doors blew off."

Within hours of the blast, most of the tourists were taken to nearby hotels. Few
of them had any stomach for a holiday. "I think we all just want to go home," Ms
Hartog said.

For the tourist workers left behind, though, it will not be so easy to leave
yesterday's devastation. The coastal region of Kenya is a Muslim stronghold, but
the Israeli director of the hotel believed it was a place where Muslims and Jews
could live side by side peacefully. "We have good relations with this community,
we have been here for years," Yehuda Salami said. "We have no problems."

Until yesterday that is.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: How terrorists coordinated their attacks: Missile fired at
Israeli charter plane:

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 278 words


SA-14 GREMLIN

(Strela-3 9K34) hand-held surface-to-air missile Russian built system consists
of a gripstock, thermal battery/gas reservoir, and missile.

A nitrogen-cooled lead sulphide seeker allows it to home in on the exhaust plume
of jet engines, turboprop and helicopter gas turbine engines.

Can be fired at targets from much broader angles, as well as

defeating countermeasures such as exhaust shrouds. An optical

filtration reduces vulnerability to counter measure flares.

Minimum altitude 50m

Length 1.40m

Reload time (sec) 25 sec

Weight 10.3kg

Missile speed 600m/s

Date of Introduction 1978

Proliferation Worldwide

Crew needed 1

Maximum range 6,000m

Miniumum range 600m

Maximum altitude 6,000m

1. 261 passengers are ushered aboard charter airline Arkia's Boeing

767 flight IZ582

2. Captain Rafi Marik taxis the aircraft to the end of the 11000 ft runway and
is cleared for take off

3. The plane takes off at a speed of around 110mph and begins its ascent

4. Two kilometers away surface-to-air missiles, believed to have been fired a
white Pajara jeep, streak towards the plane which has reached 500ft

5. Captain Marik reports seeing seeing two white smoke trails passing on the
lefthand side of the aircraft then disappearing within seconds. Some passengers
report seeing flashes and feel a small jolt

6. The crew consider diverting to Nairobi to check the plane for

damage but it is decided to proceed to Tel Aviv.

7. As flight IZ582 approaches Israel two F16 are scrambled to escort it to
ground. It lands safely five and a half hours after take

off and on time.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Australia forecast Kenya attacks: Warnings Foreign Office
defends decision to withhold information

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 502 words


The Australian government gave out a specific warning to its citizens over
possible attacks on "western interests" in Kenya it was revealed last night.

It mentioned the "possible risk of terrorist attacks against sites in Kenya
particularly in Nairobi and Mombasa".

While western intelligence sources last night described the attacks as "no great
surprise", the Foreign Office advised British travellers to Kenya simply to "be
aware of indiscriminate attacks on civilian targets in public places, including
tourist sites".

This general warning - issued after the October 12 attack in Bali - is included
in advice addressed primarily to personal protection against muggers.

In contrast the advice from Australia, issued on November 12 in the light of
what Australia described as "new information", goes much further.

It advised Australians "to defer all non-essential travel to Mombasa". Those
already there were advised to consider leaving.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said last night that it stood by the advice it had
given on November 6, less than a week before the Australians changed theirs.

The marked difference in the nature of that advice echoes the warnings which
emerged after the Bali bombings, when the Australian and American governments
gave more specific warnings than the British.

Jack Straw, the foreign secretary, said at the time he did not think Bali should
have been named because it might compromise intelligence sources.

Other governments did not take that view.

There was further confusion when both Australia and Denmark put out warnings to
their citizens over possible attacks in the Thai resort of Phuket. The Foreign
Office initially refused to change it its advise to Britons. Five days later it
issued its own warning without elaboration.

Yesterday's attacks again raise the question of the nature of intelligence
warnings. Intelligence sources pointed out that Kenya had already proved
vulnerable to attacks by al-Qaida when the US embassy in Nairobi was bombed in
1998.

They also said more and more information had been gathered pointing to a
coordinated attack on Israeli interests. Kenya has close ties with Israel,
including arms and intelligence links. Moreover, it is geographically
vulnerable, with a coastline open to arms smugglers and a border with Somalia,
suspected of being a base for al-Qaida supporters.

"The fact that (the attacks) happened was no surprise yet no one knew in
advance," one source said, pointing to what he called the difficulty in getting
specific intelligence. "Terrorists always have the initiative."

Sheikh Omar Bakri Muhammad, leader of the radical London-based group
al-Muhajiroun, claimed yesterday that Islamist extremists sympathetic to
al-Qaida had warned of an attack on Kenya a week ago on internet chat rooms and
in emails.

"Militant groups who sympathise with al-Qaida warned one week ago that there
would be an attack on Kenya and they mentioned Israelis," he claimed.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Air assault: A boom and a vapour trail as missiles just
miss their mark: Attempt to bring down passenger jet exposes new terrorism
danger

BYLINE: Stuart Millar and Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1129 words


Arkia Airlines flight IZ582 was just passing through the 500ft mark as it
climbed out of Mombasa airport bound for Tel Aviv when passenger Ezra Gozlan
heard a distinct boom from outside. As the plane shook, he looked up, just in
time to see a small trail of smoke to the left of the Boeing 757 charter jet.

"It went about one metre above the wing . . . It was a bazooka or something like
that," the 62-year-old Israeli said yesterday. "I said to someone 'It's a
missile', but he said 'No, maybe something got caught in the engine'."

Other passengers were just as confused. "It felt like something fell off the
wing," said Kerry Levy.

On the flight deck, the captain, Rafi Marik, was running through the post
take-off check routine when he felt a "light hit". At first he believed a bird
had hit the fuselage. Then he spotted two white vapour trails passing from the
rear, not far off his port wing. His plane, with 261 passengers and 10 crew on
board, was under missile attack.

The missiles were fired from shoulder-held Strela 3 launchers, Kenyan police
said last night. Eyewitness reports say they came from a white four-wheel drive
vehicle parked more than a mile beyond the airport's perimeter. The launcher and
missile casings were found nearby.

The terrorists may have missed their target, while a car bomb attack killed at
least 12 people on the ground below. But it is the attempt to bring down a
passenger jet that represents the most alarming demonstration of terrorists'
consistent and devastating ability to devise new forms of attack.

Governments have scrambled to plug each security gap since September 11. But
last night terrorism experts said security services were powerless to prevent
missile attacks on passenger aircraft.

"There is absolutely nothing whatsoever that can be done to protect civil
aviation from somebody standing outside the airport perimeter fence with a
shoulder-launched missile to take out aircraft as they land and take off," said
Chris Yates, aviation security editor at Jane's Transport. "The industry deals
with the headline stuff, installing better scanning, for example, and they have
been very good at that, but at the end of the day there are so many ways for a
terrorist to strike that they cannot cover every eventuality."

Back on flight IZ582, there was no panic after the near miss. Capt Marik radioed
the control tower at Mombasa and his airline headquarters to tell them what had
happened. The jet could not turn back to Mombasa and risk further attack so
preparations were made for an emergency landing at Nairobi. But with no signs of
serious damage to the plane and no injuries to the passengers, Capt Marik was
told to continue to Tel Aviv.

To avoid panicking the passengers, the crew informed them that the problem had
been caused by a minor technical mishap. For the next four and a half hours,
they passed the flight in blissful ignorance. On the ground in Tel Aviv, shocked
loved ones were already gathering at Ben Gurion airport after hearing about the
attack on radio and television. Around the world there was condemnation of this
escalation of terrorist violence.

But it was not until shortly before landing, as two Israeli air force F-15
fighters pulled alongside to check for external damage and escort them home,
that Capt Marik revealed to the passengers how close they had come to
catastophe.

The news was greeted with disbelief. Then people broke into spontaneous
applause. Some started singing traditional Israeli songs. "There was a big
uproar," said one, Sharon Heldth.

As the passengers celebrated their escape, security sources and independent
analysts warned that shoulder-held missiles were the ideal terrorist's weapon.
They are cheap, easy to conceal, usually easy to operate, and, above all, are in
plentiful supply.

The Strela launcher is an upgraded, updated version of the Soviet-designed SAM-7
anti-aircraft system which has enjoyed enduring popularity with the IRA and
terrorist groups worldwide since the 1970s. Christopher Langton, of the
International Institute of Strategic Studies, said SAM-7s, like the Kalashnikov
AK-47 rifle, were "ubiquitous".

The weapon is so simple to operate that experts were puzzled how the terrorists
managed to miss their target yesterday. Equipped with a lead sulfide-seeking
head which homes in on the exhaust plume of jet engines, it can hit targets up
to 2.8 miles away and up to an altitude of 3,000m - six times the height of the
airliner.

Some Israeli airliners are believed to have been fitted with electronic missile
detection systems to protect them from attack during take-off and landing. Some
Israeli security sources cast doubt on whether the Arkia charter jet would have
been equipped with such expensive and sophisticated countermeasures.

Earlier this year, evidence emerged that al-Qaida militants had access to
heat-seeking SAM-7s. In June, the Saudi Arabian authorities said they had
rounded up a terrorist cell, led by a Sudanese who allegedly confessed to
attempting to shoot down US military aircraft at the massive Prince Sultan
airbase in the Saudi desert in May.

The authorities found a scorched SAM-7 launcher and pieces of the missile
outside the base. Another unused missile was found buried nearby. The discovery
prompted the FBI to issue an intelligence warning that terrorists could use
shoulder-fired missiles to shoot down US commercial aircraft.

Other shoulder-fired weapons systems are known to be readily available across
Africa, especially over the border in Somalia where they can be picked up for a
few thousand dollars. These include the US-made Stinger system, which was used
to devastating effect by Afghan mohajedin fighters against Soviet occupying
forces.

Another popular choice is the Igla missile, which has been blamed for two
attacks on Russian helicopters in Chechnya over the last three months. This
week, Russian experts said that tens of thousands of Igla and Strela missiles
had leaked into circulation from poorly guarded arsenals throughout the 1990s.
One report said the defence ministry had lost track of 260,000 light weapons,
including missiles, from the Transcaucasus region alone.

Unlike the September 11 suicide hijacks, yesterday's missile attack was far from
original. In September 1978, for example, an Air Rhodesia Viscount carrying 52
passengers and four crew was shot down with a SAM-7 missile fired by guerrillas.
Five months later, a second Air Rhodesia plane was shot down, with the loss of
all on board, in a similar attack.

"There is no reason at all why the authorities should not have been able to put
two and two together and predict that terrorists would try this sort of attack,"
said Mr Yates.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Victims: Teenage brothers and Kenyan dancers killed: Local
staff and tourists are among dead

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 502 words


Two young Israeli brothers who had joined in the dancing in the foyer of the
Paradise hotel, as newly arrived guests were greeted by African dancers in
tribal dress, were among the 12 victims of the suicide bombers.

Dvir, 12, and Noy Anter, 13 , were sipping drinks, with their mother Ora and
younger sister Adva close by, when one of three suicide bombers ran into the
foyer and detonated the explosives he was carrying.

Last night their mother was seriously injured in a Kenyan hospital along with
the boys' younger sister, unaware that her boys were dead.

The family were from Ariel settlement on the West Bank, which only three weeks
ago had been targeted by a Palestinian suicide bomber at a petrol station.

Maureen Wanjiru, who owns another shop in the hotel, described the death of two
children believed to be Israelis.

"Two of the children were burned," she said. "They were taken to the beach
because there was a shortage of water in the hotel, so that people could put
them in the water. But they didn't make it."

On its website, the Israeli newspaper Haaretz said the third Israeli victim was
a 60-year-old man from the Tel Aviv suburb of Raanana.

Nine Kenyans, believed to be hotel staff, also died in the attack, a police
spokesman, King'ori Mwangi, said. Details of the Kenyan victims were sketchy
last night. The three bombers were not identified.

"There was blood all around. There was fire all around; children looking for
their parents, parents looking for their chil dren," said Yahud Saroni, Israeli
owner of the hotel.

"The bodies were burnt beyond recognition," said Farie Abdul Kadir, director of
disaster relief for the Kenya Red Cross. "What I remember most as a human being
when you see bodies of your fellow beings reduced to something that looks like
meat and wood, it must affect you."

Elvis Dzombe, 24, a storeman at the hotel, was showered in burning debris as the
roof collapsed. He said: "It was just a matter of running for your life. I thank
God I found my way out."

Israeli Boris Morosov, a 46-year-old researcher from Tel Aviv University, had an
operation to remove a metal fragment in his head. "I just came here to rest from
Tel Aviv - and then this," he told Reuters."It was my first visit to Kenya. I'll
think twice before coming here again. I'm one of the lucky ones."

A distraught survivor marked a small piece of burned hair and skull with an
index card so the remains could be properly buried under Jewish law.

Hundreds of people massed outside the hotel's gates as Kenyan authorities sifted
through the wreckage. Tour buses ferried survivors to other hotels in the area.

Rebecca Zevi, 30, an Israeli who was working at the hotel, said she was in her
room when the explosions occurred.

She helped drag some of the wounded to the back of the hotel for fear of another
blast.

"All the glass shattered. I ran to see what was happening. There was screaming,"
she said. "I don't know why this happened to us."


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: For Israelis - and Jews everywhere - fear is now
international

BYLINE: Jonathan Freedland

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 767 words


The sick fact is that, by Israeli standards, this was not a particularly big
one. Suicide bombings inside the country regularly claim a dozen Israeli lives
or more, while the terrorists who attacked the Paradise hotel outside Mombasa
yesterday killed as many of themselves as they did Israelis (three each).

If terror were a crude matter of numbers, the Kenya murders would have less
significance than, say, yesterday's raid on a Likud party office in Beit Shean,
which left six dead. But numbers are not always decisive. Location matters too.
Which is why yesterday's double assault from Kenya will strike so hard.

First, it will deepen yet further Israelis' state of fear. For more than two
years Israelis have lived with the daily possibility of violent and random death
within their own borders. Every parent worries that the bus carrying their child
could blow to pieces; a trip to the mall could be a deathtrap; a pizzeria could
be a minefield. That constant fear has seeped into the marrow of the society.
Nothing is normal.

But Israelis always had one way to escape the fear. A holiday outside the
country could be the valve that releases the pressure. Home may not have been
safe, but abroad could be.

Now Israelis have lost even that comfort. Now they will believe that nowhere is
safe. They will be hunted down wherever they are, targeted for the crime of
being Israeli. That is the message of yesterday's attack: Israelis cannot live
at home, they cannot live in the world.

Some will think that an overreaction. After all, Australians were the target of
October's Bali bomb - yet surely few Aussies now feel themselves in a state of
siege. That's true, but it misses two important differences. Australians are not
under constant attack in their own country. Nor are they a people with a long,
collective history of persecution.

Which is why Kenya's psychological impact will not be felt by Israelis alone. It
will fuel a growing mood of alarm spreading across the Jewish world: the sense
that Jews are being hounded in a way unseen for more than half a century.

Many Jews will see Mom basa as confirmation that Osama bin Laden's words are to
be taken at face value. That when he repeatedly declares a "jihad against Jews
and crusaders", he means it. And he puts Jews first for a reason: because he
regards them - not Israelis or Zionists, but Jews - as enemy number one.
Al-Qaida's April attack on an ancient Tunisian synagogue, which left 16 dead,
was an early proof. Yesterday was another.

Politically, there are two likely impacts. First, Kenya will, like all terror
attacks, prompt Israelis to close ranks. They will unite behind their prime
minister, Ariel Sharon, who last night cruised to re-election as Likud leader.
When terror strikes, Israelis accept the Sharon view that the only proper
response is crushing force.

So the fledgling campaign of Labour challenger Amram Mitzna - arguing that a
peace process, not military might, is the only long-term answer - will now
struggle to get a hearing. What is there to talk about with maniacs prepared to
blow 261 passengers out of the sky?

Sharon and much of the Israeli consensus will see a second vindication in
Mombasa. Ever since September 11, Israeli leaders - and their allies among the
US hawks - have argued that Israel's struggle with the Palestinians is merely
one front in the wider war on terror. "Arafat is our Bin Laden" is the slogan.

The desire to link the two is not hard to fathom. If these are the same fight,
then Israel has the same right to hit at the "terror camps" of the West Bank as
America had to strike at Afghanistan. And why negotiate with Palestinians if
they are merely a local branch of al-Qaida? No one expects George Bush to make
concessions to Bin Laden, so why should Sharon to Arafat?

As of yesterday, that argument will gain ground. Overtly now, the al-Qaida and
Palestinian campaigns have been fused. As an Israeli government statement
declared yesterday: "Whether in New York or Washington, Bali or Moscow, Mombasa
or Beit Shean, terrorism is indivisible, and all attempts to understand it will
only serve to ensure its continuation."

Kenya adds weight to the hawkish view that Israel faces a murderous enemy with
whom there can be no reasoning; there is no point talking peace, because this is
not a local, soluble struggle over real estate but a global, metaphysical "clash
of civilisations". That is the view of the right in Jerusalem and Washington
and, not for the first time the terrorists have just served as the hawks' star
witness.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Strategy: Pan-Arab support is key motive: Bin Laden may be
seeking more backing for jihad

BYLINE: Ewen MacAskill Diplomatic editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 557 words


Osama bin Laden for years has pinpointed Israel as an enemy but has never
succeeded in making a direct attack on its citizens. That appears to have
changed yesterday.

Bin Laden's al-Qaida network, a hydra-headed organisation that operates through
secretive cells, is notoriously difficult to track down or even to define. If
al-Qaida, or any of its loose affiliates, were behind the Kenyan attack, the
consequences would be serious.

By bringing in Israel, al-Qaida would have accelerated a polarisation of the
Muslim and Christian/Jewish world, dragging a step nearer the long-predicted
"clash of civilisations". Many Muslims who would have found the twin towers
carnage repulsive would have no such qualms about Kenya because the target was
Israelis, such is the strength of feelings aroused by the Palestinian issue.

What has been surprising is that al-Qaida has not attempted to attack Israeli or
Jewish targets outside of Israel and the occupied territories before now. The
closest it came was an attack on a synagogue in Tunisia in April this year in
which German tourists were killed.

Nabil Abdel-Fattah, assistant director of the Cairo-based Al-Ahram centre for
political and strategic studies, said that if al-Qaida were behind the Kenyan
attack, it would probably have been trying to mobilise support from those Arabs
who have questioned why al-Qaida has attacked sites in the US but not Israel or
Israelis. He said the objective was to produce "a new wave of supporters for al
Qaida network".

Al-Qaida has always sought to characterise its battle as one between the Muslim
world and Christians and Jews. Roland Jacquard, head of the International
Observatory on Terrorism, based in Paris, noted yesterday that when the attack
on the US embassy in Kenya took place in 1998 it was in the name of the Islamic
Army against the Jews and the Crusaders.

Bin Laden, in interviews and statements throughout the 1990s, made it clear the
main motivation for his jihad was the presence of US military bases in Saudi
Arabia.

A secondary aim, further down his list, was the destruction of Israel. In an
interview four years ago with Peter Bergen, author of Holy War, Inc, published
last year, he criticised the US for criminal acts either directly or through its
support of the Israeli occupation of Palestine. He blamed the US for deaths in
Palestine, Lebanon and Iraq.

Bin Laden said: "Due to its subordination to the Jews, the arrogance and
haughtiness of the US regime has reached to the extent that they occupied
(Arabia). For this and other acts of aggression and injustice, we have declared
jihad against the US."

In spite of frequent mentions of Israel and of American Jews, the US and Saudi
remained the main targets. But, in a statement after September 11, Bin Laden
pushed the Palestinian issue much further up the agenda than he had previously,
seeking to capitalise on public sentiment, especially in the Arab world.

The problem for al-Qaida is that it has no presence on the West Bank and Gaza.
The Palestinians have their own Islamist groups, Hamas and Islamic Jihad, and
they are fixed on ending the Israeli presence in the West Bank. Nor have they,
for the most part, sought significant alliances outside of Palestinian
territory, either with al-Qaida or, more obviously, Hizbullah.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Six dead in attack on Likud party HQ

BYLINE: Graham Usher in Jerusalem

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 418 words


The Israeli leader Ariel Sharon completed a crushing victory over his
arch-rival, Binyamin Netanyahu, in the Likud primary elections, but the vote for
the ruling party's prime ministerial candidate was overshadowed by the attacks
on Israelis in Kenya and at home in the northern town of Beit Shean.

Six Israelis were killed and more than 20 wounded after three Palestinians
opened fire and threw grenades at commuters gathering outside a bus station and
the Likud party's offices in Beit Shean, a few miles north of the occupied West
Bank.

The attackers were killed by police and one was later found to be wearing an
explosives belt. "I saw one of the terrorists," a witness told Israel's Army
Radio. "He was tall, wearing a khaki jacket. He smiled a cynical smile and just
kept firing and firing. People were screaming, fleeing. There was total
hysteria."

Neither attack had much effect on the result, with Mr Sharon taking 59% of the
vote against Mr Netanyahu's 36%, according to early returns from 20% of polling
stations. An American-born challenger, Moshe Feiglin, got 5%.

Mr Netanyahu, currently the foreign minister, conceded defeat last night and
called to congratulate Mr Sharon.

"We must ensure that the next government will have the power to defeat terror,"
he said.

Mr Sharon will now lead Likud against the Labour party, headed by the dovish
former general Amram Mitzna.

Polls predict that the continuing violence will give Mr Sharon a better chance
of retaining his job as Israelis shift to an increasingly hardline stance. Mr
Sharon's view that Israel's struggle against the Palestinians is part of the
global "war against terror" is likely to play well at home.

Yesterday, Mr Netanyahu spent the day alternating between giving updates on the
Kenya attacks and urging Likud members to "buck the dictates of the pollsters"
because "the real poll is the day of the primaries".

His aides conceded yesterday evening that the gap in support was too big to
close but he appears to have secured his objective of winning more than 30% of
the vote, guaranteeing him the number two slot on the Likud list for the Israeli
parliament.

Analysts believe that Mr Netanyahu failed because he chose to fight Mr Sharon on
the wrong issues at the wrong time. He blamed Mr Sharon for Israel's economic
woes when most Israelis blame the Palestinian intifada for tipping the Israeli
economy into recession.

More on Israel and the Middle East at guardian.co.uk/israel


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Israel: Sharon demands world war on terror: Leader says
violence aims to influence election campaign

BYLINE: Chris McGreal in Jerusalem

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 597 words


Ariel Sharon last night made a rambling denunciation of yesterday's bombings and
shootings in Kenya and Israel which left at least 20 people dead and Israelis
feeling as vulnerable abroad as they are at home.

In a televised press conference apparently aimed at influencing voters on the
day Mr Sharon was seeking re-election as leader of his party, the prime minister
accused "Arab terror organisations" of killing Jews because they are Jews while
also claiming yesterday's attacks were an attempt to influence the outcome of
Israel's forthcoming general election.

For many Israelis, the attacks at Mombasa will be an unwelcome extension of the
attacks they have grown used to at home.

Israelis have long tended to feel safer abroad. There is a tradition among the
young of backpacking in Africa, Asia and Europe. Package tours are popular among
older Israelis and, until now, they have had little reason to feel threatened.
But last night Israel's tourism ministry was advising against further travel to
Kenya and there were fresh warnings of a threat to Israelis in South Africa.

Although there was no evidence of a link between the attacks in Kenya and the
killings a few hours later at a Likud party HQ, Mr Sharon did not draw a
distinction.

"The state of Israel is facing a wave of murderous terrorism campaign," he said.
"The terrorists have chosen as their targets Jewish women, old men and children,
simply because they are Jews.

"But today terrorism has a further goal - to influence the Israeli election
campaign. Terror will not dictate the policy of the state of Israel. We will hit
hard those who try to hurt us."

Although there were competing theories in Israel about who was responsible for
the Mombasa attacks, Mr Sharon simply blamed "Arab terror" and chose to link
yesterday's attacks at home and abroad as part of the global war on terrorism.
Since September 11, his administration has sought to persuade foreign
governments and international opinion that Palestinian resistance is not the
result of Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza but part of an
international conspiracy of terror against western civilisation.

Israeli officials immediately drew comparisons with the bombing in Bali. The
foreign minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, called the firing of the missiles at the
Israeli charter plane "a very dangerous escalation of terror" with implications
for all western nations.

"It means that terror organisations and the regimes behind them are able to arm
themselves with weapons which can cause mass casualties anywhere and
everywhere," he said. "Today, they're firing the missiles at Israeli planes,
tomorrow they'll fire missiles at American planes, British planes, every
country's aircraft."

But Mr Sharon also played to a domestic audience on the day his Likud party held
a primary ballot that would decide if he would remain leader and its candidate
for prime minister in January's election.

While referring fleetingly to the Kenyan attacks, he dwelled at length on
yesterday's shootings inside Israel in which four people were killed at a Likud
polling booth by saying they were a direct attack on democracy.

"The Palestinians and the terror organisations and the Palestinian Authority and
also Arab states want to influence the democratic process, the elections, and
that terror is one of their tools," he said. "We must not allow the murderers to
ruin our lives. It doesn't matter to whom your support goes - don't let
terrorism scare you! Don't let terrorism deter you from voting! Go vote!"


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Tourism: Urgent review of travel advice: No specific
warning

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 387 words


The Foreign Office was last night urgently reviewing the travel advice it gives
to British tourists visiting Kenya after the terrorist attacks.

Kenya is an increasingly popular destination, with 80,000 Britons holidaying
there last year. The Foreign Office advice before the attacks was for
holidaymakers to be vigilant, but there was no direct mention of a terrorist
threat.

The advice, updated on November 6, said: "Following recent developments,
including the terrorist bombing of a night club in Bali on October 12, UK
nationals worldwide should be aware of indiscriminate attacks on civilian
targets in public places, including tourist sites."

This contrasted with the advice for Tanzania, updated on November 7: "Tanzania
is one of a number of countries where we believe there is an increased threat to
visible British institutions and organisations from global terrorism."

In London, Nancy Kirui, Kenya's high commissioner, insisted her country was
safe. "I hope that this incident, only because of its very nature that it was
addressed to a very specific interest, is not construed to be common to all of
Kenya," she said. "Kenya is safe. We believe that this incident will not happen
again."

The early indication was that British tourists were undeterred. Kenyan Airways'
daily flight from Heathrow airport was full.

The head of the travel firm that sends the most Britons to Kenya said
holidaymakers were holding their nerve. Ash Sofat, chief executive of Somak
travel, with whom 26,000 people travelled to Kenya last year, said his firm had
had no cancellations and no requests from the 382 people already there to come
home early.

By midday the firm had received 500 calls. Mr Sofat said: "The majority of
people calling want to know about their holidays, where their hotel is in
relation to the bombing, are the airports still open, are the airlines still
running.

"A number of clients have rung to ask if their hotel has a lot of Israeli
guests."

Tourism accounts for 19% of Kenya's gross domestic product and is its second
biggest foreign currency earner after tea. But earnings from foreign
holidaymakers dipped after the 1998 embassy bombing.

The Kenyan tourist board in London said it still expected a 10% growth in
Britons visiting compared with last year.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Airline industry nightmares come true

BYLINE: Andrew Clark Transport correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 439 words


A terrorist missile attack on a commercial aircraft is among airline bosses'
worst nightmares. Industry experts admit that there is little they can do to
protect against the threat.

Yesterday's attack came at a difficult time for airlines, which have struggled
to win back the confidence of passengers since September 11.

The International Air Transport Association this week warned that the world's
airlines were headed for a combined loss of between Dollars 5bn (pounds 3.2bn)
and Dollars 7bn on international routes this year, with Americans in particular
still wary of travelling.

The missile in Kenya was launched from a vehicle more than a mile outside
Mombasa airport - well beyond the outer reaches of any security. At Heathrow
yesterday, BAA insisted it regularly carried out "threat assessments" with the
police on "perimeter and offsite" security.

However, Britain's biggest airport has residential areas near the end of its two
runways and its vulnerability was exposed in 1994, when the IRA fired mortar
bombs onto taxiways from an unmanned device in a nearby hotel car park.

Kieran Daly, the editor of Air Transport Intelligence, said: "In most peoples'
view, this attack is long overdue. It's been the great fear of the industry for
more than 20 years. Once you're outside the hinterland of an airport, the remit
of the aviation authorities doesn't extend far."

Government sources said it was far easier to obtain a missile launcher in
sub-Saharan Africa than in Britain. The Department of Transport's security arm,
Transec, is relying on intelligence to alert the authorities to such weapons
before they are launched.

But aviation experts said the attack is likely to re-open debate about fitting
military-style defences to passenger jets.

The government's small VIP fleet of BAe 146 planes, regularly used by the Queen
and the prime minister, have "defensive aid suites" which can electronically
alter the course of approaching weapons.

Unconfirmed rumours that aircraft from the Israeli airline El Al have similar
devices abound. Anti-missile equipment is extremely expensive, however, and is
likely to be seen as a step too far by the aviation industry.

One Whitehall source said: "If they think it's dangerous enough to need these
things, questions need to be asked about whether they should be flying to these
places in the first place."

But a senior airline source said that the risk of a further missile attack "will
be viewed by most people as fairly remote. Most travellers realise that flying
is fundamentally safe."

Special report at guardian.co.uk/airlines


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Intelligence: Australia warned of Kenya attacks: Anger at
Foreign Office in row over travel advice

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 602 words


The Australian government gave out a specific warning to its citizens over
possible attacks on "western interests" in Kenya, it was revealed last night.

It mentioned the "possible risk of terrorist attacks against sites in Kenya
particularly in Nairobi and Mombasa".

It has also emerged that the FBI warned six months ago of a threat to aircraft
from hand-held missiles of the kind that appear to have been used in Mombasa.

While western intelligence sources last night described the attacks as "no great
surprise", the Foreign Office advised British travellers to Kenya simply to "be
aware of indiscriminate attacks on civilian targets in public places, including
tourist sites".

This general warning - issued after the October 12 attack in Bali - is included
in advice which addresses itself primarily to personal protection against
muggers.

In contrast, the advice from Australia, issued on November 12 in the light of
what Australia described as "new information", goes much further. It advised
Australians "to defer all non-essential travel to Mombasa". Those already there
were advised to consider leaving.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said last night that it stood by the advice it had
given on November 6, less than a week before the Australians changed theirs.

The marked difference in the nature of that advice echoes the warnings which
emerged after the Bali bombings, when the Australian and US governments gave
more specific warnings than the British.

Jack Straw, the foreign secretary, said at the time that he did not think Bali
should have been named because that could have compromised intelligence sources.

Other governments did not share that view.

There was further confusion when both Australia and Denmark put out warnings to
their citizens over possible attacks in the Thai resort of Phuket. The Foreign
Office initially refused to change its advice to Britons. Five days later it
issued its own warning without elaboration.

Yesterday's attacks again raise the question of the nature of intelligence
warnings. Intelligence sources pointed out that Kenya had already proved
vulnerable to attacks by al-Qaida when the US embassy in Nairobi was bombed in
1998.

They also said more and more information had been gathered pointing to a
coordinated attack on Israeli interests. Kenya has close ties with Israel,
including arms and intelligence links.

Moreover, it is geographically vulnerable, with a coastline open to arms
smugglers and a border with Somalia, suspected of being a base for al-Qaida
supporters.

"The fact that (the attacks) happened was no surprise yet no one knew in
advance," one source said, pointing to what he called the difficulty in getting
specific intelligence. "Terrorists always have the initiative."

Sheikh Omar Bakri Muhammad, leader of the radical London-based group
al-Muhajiroun, claimed yesterday that Islamist extremists sympathetic to
al-Qaida had warned of an attack on Kenya a week ago on internet chat rooms and
in emails.

"Militant groups who sympathise with al-Qaida warned one week ago that there
would be an attack on Kenya and they mentioned Israelis," he claimed.

The US warning on hand-held missiles was issued earlier this year after an
attack on a US military jet at Dharan in Saudi Arabia. The FBI specifically
warned the US authorities against possible attacks from al-Qaida terrorists on
the ground using weapons manufactured in the US and Russia.

But with the cost of missile defence systems said to run into millions of
pounds, few commercial airlines acted on the warning.


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 29, 2002

Kenya terror attacks: Threats: The new, softer target: tourists: Holidaymakers
at risk

BYLINE: Giles Tremlett

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 447 words


Experts are warning that Osama bin Laden's network has "rebranded" itself as the
scourge of unprotected targets like the tourists killed yesterday in Kenya.

If the explosion was the work of al-Qaida, it would be the third attack on a
tourist target since April. The previous two, which killed nearly 200 people in
Bali last month and another 19 on the Tunisian island of Djerba in April,
fulfilled three of Osama bin Laden's new aims for the group.

Those include not only killing Israelis and westerners but also wreaking
economic damage on those parts of the Muslim world that welcome them.

With security around western embassies and military installations now too tough
to crack, al-Qaida is only guaranteed success if it hits "soft" civilian
targets.

"Al-Qaida has relaunched itself, a rebranding that presages a second phase in
its war against the west," the security expert Peter Bergen warned in the
Washington Post last week. He believes tourism and economic targets are now top
of al-Qaida's list.

That view was shared by the US deputy assistant secretary of state, Matthew
Daley, who said recently: "They've shown an ability to shift their focus from
targets that are well defended and alert to targets that are less well
defended."

The attack, though, has not prompted the Foreign Office to change its advice for
British travellers to the region. Last night officials decided to stick to
guidelines made before the attack which warned holidaymakers to be "vigilant".

Recent audio tapes released by Osama bin Laden name, for the first time, people
from Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Canada and Australia as valid targets
alongside Americans and Israelis.

"Those threats should be taken at face value. Mr Bin Laden's statements have
been a reliable guide to the subsequent actions of al-Qaida," Mr Bergen said.

Tourism is an easy and effective target. The industry in Bali accounted for 6
million jobs, and earned an estimated pounds 12.5bn a year.

The tourism minister Gede Ardika said: "It is predicted that by the first six
months there will be at least 2.7 million people unemployed all over Indonesia
due to this incident."

Bookings to Tunisia this summer fell by 25% after the attack on the Djerba
synagogue in April.

Full coverage

Latest news and analysis on the hotel bombing, plus images from the scene in
Kikambala

guardian.co.uk/ kenya

Audio

Rory Carroll reports on the new security issues confronting Israel as the threat
to its citizens moves overseas

guardian.co.uk/ audio

From the archive

Read the Guardian reports from the 1998 US embassy bombing in Nairobi

guardian.co.uk/ kenya


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 29, 2002

Twin terror attacks point to al Qaeda ;15 die at Kenya hotel as rockets miss jet

BYLINE: Ian Bruce Defence Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 794 words


AL Qaeda was identified last night as the chief suspect for a suicide bombing at
a hotel in Kenya, which killed at least 15 people, and a missile attack on a
passenger jet as it left a nearby airport.

The Army of Palestine, a group unknown to either Palestinian authorities or
Israel's security forces, claimed responsibility but international intelligence
agencies said the timing and precision of the attacks bore all the hallmarks of
Osama bin Laden's group.

The hotel is Israeli-owned and the jet was full of passengers returning to Tel
Aviv.

A man wearing a belt packed with explosives jumped from a car which crashed
through a hotel security barrier, raced into the reception lobby of the Paradise
Hotel in Kikambala, 15 miles north of Mombasa, and blew himself up.

Two others in the car then detonated explosives packed into the vehicle,
destroying the front of the building and setting it on fire.

The dead included two brothers, aged 12 and 13, from the Jewish settlement of
Ariel in the West Bank and Kenyan dancers who were greeting recent arrivals at
the hotel. About 80 people were injured.

Hotel staff said a light aircraft had circled the building just before the
suicide attack and dropped three packages. Some claimed one or more had exploded
but police refused to confirm this.

Within minutes of the hotel attack, the pilot of a private charter flight
carrying 261 Israeli holidaymakers and 10 crew from Mombasa to Tel Aviv reported
seeing a flash of light which he thought was a missile explosion.

Passengers said later they had heard a loud boom and felt the aircraft shudder
shortly after take-off. The crew decided to continue the flight rather than risk
turning back, despite minor shrapnel damage to one wing. No-one on board was
injured and the jet landed safely in Israel five hours later.

Local witnesses said they saw "three or four men with Arab features" firing two

shoulder-launched missiles from the rear of a white all-

terrain vehicle a mile from Mombasa's main runway. Kenyan police recovered two
launch tubes from the scene.

In America, a CIA spokes-man said "al Qaeda or one of its proxies trained in bin
Laden's Afghan camps" was the likely culprit. "The precision of the timing of
simultaneous attacks is an al Qaeda trademark. Think of Bali, the Twin Towers
and the East Africa embassy bombings in 1998. A succession of blows separated by
seconds or minutes features in all of them."

Israeli intelligence said both al Qaeda and Hizbollah had the capability to
carry out this kind of twin strike but "Hizbollah would have claimed the kudos
for such an atrocity without hesitation".

Jack Straw, foreign secretary, said Britain would do everything possible to
track down the terrorists. The area surrounding Mombasa, on the Indian Ocean, is
a popular holiday destination for Britons. The Foreign Office is reviewing its
travel advice for the region.

George W Bush, US president, condemned the "horrible" bombing. ''Those who seek
peace must do everything in their power to dismantle the infrastructure of
terror that makes such actions possible."

After the attacks, a statement faxed to news agencies in Beirut from a group
which called itself "the Government of Universal Palestine in Exile, the Army of
Palestine", claimed it had sent two units to Kenya to carry out unspecified
"attacks against Israeli interests" to mark the eve of the 55th anniversary of
the 1947 UN decision to partition the territory, creating Israel.

Khaled Aref, a senior commander of Yasser Arafat's Fatah military wing in
Lebanon, said he had never heard of the group. Nabil Abdel-Fattah, assistant
director of Cairo's Al-Ahram centre for strategic studies, said that, if al
Qaeda were to blame, the motive was probably to mobilise support in the Arab
world. Some elements in Islamic society had criticised al Qaeda for attacking
the US and its allies without striking Israeli targets.

Bin Laden hinted in a recent broadcast that attacks would be mounted against
"Jews and crusaders". In Australia, new fears led to guards being posted at
tourist attractions such as the Sydney Opera House.

In Israel, two Palestinians opened fire on an office of the ruling Likud Party
crowded with people casting votes. Five died and dozens were wounded, before the
Palestinians were shot dead.

Benjamin Netanyahu, the foreign minister, has conceded defeat to the prime
minister, Ariel Sharon, in the race for the Likud party leadership after exit
polls projected a sweeping victory for the incumbent.

In Hebron on the West Bank, a three-year-old Palestinian boy died of shrapnel
wounds. His father said Israeli soldiers shot him as he stood at a window.
Israeli forces denied the claim.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TEARS OF RELIEF: A woman weeps at the airport near Tel Aviv as she
holds her husband who was on the jet .  Picture: Oleg Popov/Reuters

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS: KENYA: MOMBASA ATTACKS - WITH DEADLY CO-ORDINATION, MISSILES ARE
FIRED, A CAR BOMB IS DETONATED AND TERROR RETURNS TO KENYA

BYLINE: Terry Kirby Chief Reporter People stand outside the shell of Hotel
Paradise, top left, destroyed by the blast from the suicide attack. From bottom
left: Victims in a Kenyan hospital, a weapon found near Mombasa airport and the
Israeli aircraft landing at Tel Aviv after it avoided two missiles Getty
Images;; Reuters/Kenya Television; Barkai Wolfson/AP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1274 words


AT THE Israeli-owned Hotel Paradise in Mombasa, overlooking the beaches on
Kenya's Indian Ocean coastline near the village of Kikambala, yesterday was an
ordinary morning of hotel routine.

One set of the mostly Israeli tourists had earlier left on their bus to
Mombasa's Moi International Airport to catch their return flight and the
security guards on the gate were expecting the arrival of their replacements at
7.30am.

About the same time, 15km (nine miles) to the south, a white, four- wheel drive
Mitsubishi Pajero vehicle containing three men of Arab appearance had parked on
an isolated road about 2km from the perimeter of the airport where the Arkia
charter airline flight was due to take off for the five- hour flight to Tel
Aviv.

The plane, which had brought the 60 or so holidaymakers who at that moment were
passing through the security barrier at the Paradise to a welcome by local
dancing girls, was taking home those who had earlier left the hotel.

The plane took off around 8am and as the pilot, Rafi Marek, lifted the nose of
the aircraft into the air and it began to gain height, two ground- to-air Strela
missiles were fired directly at it by the men in the Pajero. They missed the
plane - and almost certain death for all 271 people on board - by less than a
metre.

At precisely the same time, another Pajero - this one green - also containing
three men of Arab appearance, came hurtling down the road towards the hotel
security barrier. Ignoring demands from the guards to stop, hotel staff watched
in horror as the vehicle crashed through the barrier and headed towards the
hotel reception, where the tourists were still checking in.

The vehicle rammed into the doors of the hotel. One man got out and ran into the
reception area, where he hit the button on the bomb strapped around him;
simultaneously, his two companions in the vehicle detonated their bomb and a
massive double explosion ripped through the hotel.

The death toll last night had risen to 15, with at least 80 injured.

As details of the attacks, particularly their co-ordinated and ambitious nature,
which could have resulted in several hundred deaths, filtered through to
governments and police and intelligence agencies in Tel Aviv, London and
Washington, there was only one immediate response: al-Qa'ida appeared to have
struck again, for the first time directly against Israel. Last night, as the
Israeli security service, Mossad, was put in charge of tracking down those
responsible, an Israeli plane was on its way to Mombasa to bring the injured and
survivors home.

Even as Mossad begin their inquiry and apart from the global threats recently
delivered by Osama bin Laden, there is already a sizeable body of evidence
pointing towards links between his organisation and the Mombasa region, which
has a large Muslim population. Al-Qa'ida bombed the US embassy in Nairobi, in
1998, killing 213 people at the same time as the strike on the US embassy in Dar
es Salaam, which killed 12. One of those subsequently convicted in the United
States for the bombings had set up a fishing business near Mombasa to provide
cover for an al-Qa'ida cell. Two months ago, an al-Qa'ida suspect from Yemen was
arrested, along with a local man, for trying to enter Kenya under a false name.

Whoever was responsible mattered little at the Paradise hotel yesterday where
there was only carnage and confusion. Many of 140 guests were injured; some
staggered towards the beach, covered in blood and calling for water. The dead
included two or three of the incoming Israeli tourists, on the annual vacation
to celebrate the week -long festival of Hanukkah, which begins tomorrow.

Two were believed to be children and six were Kenyans, among them several of the
dancing girls who had welcomed the arrivals just minutes beforehand.

A spokesman for Zaka, the Israeli rescue services, said the two dead children
were brothers aged 12 and 13 from the Jewish settlement of Ariel on the West
Bank.

The explosion set light to the thatched roofs of the hotel complex, which
hampered the rescue operation and treatment of the injured. When the smoke did
clear, the wreckage of the Pajero remained, with body parts of the bombers lying
nearby. The hotel was a gutted, smoking ruin.

Yehuda Sulami, the hotel's director, said: "There was blood all around. There
was fire all around; children looking for their parents, parents looking for
their children."

He said staff had seen a light plane circling over the hotel at the time of the
explosion dropping packages, which staff said were bombs, one landing in the
hotel pool, one on the roof and one in the ocean. There was no independent
verification of the report.

The journalist Kelly Harthog of the Jerusalem Post was among those who had just
arrived. In her account on the newspaper's website she described the carnage: "I
saw some horrific sights: I saw people covered with blood, including children,
people with gashes, with huge wounds in their backs, stretchers being carried
out. Everyone seemed to be screaming. People were screaming for water, but there
was no bottled water and the tap water is undrinkable. Our guide was missing. I
tried to occupy myself tending to the children.  I want to go home,' they said.
Where are my parents?"'

She added: "It took quite a long time for medics to arrive on the scene and we
were using our makeshift first-aid kits to help one another. Medics did arrive
eventually and took the wounded off to hospital. I believe they did the best
they could under the circumstances. There is no running water here, and you just
bring bottled water to clear out wounds."

On board the plane, the Israeli holidaymakers returning home were unaware both
of their own close brush with death and of the destruction on the ground. But
some suspected that something had been amiss on take-off. The pilot, Mr Marek,
said afterwards that at the point the missiles came close, he felt the plane
take a "light hit" and saw two white vapour trails, and initially thought the
plane had hit a bird.

Several other passengers said they heard a loud boom and felt the plane shake
just after take-off. Ezra Gozlan, a passenger sitting at the back of the plane,
said he saw a missile fly over the wing moments after take- off. "All the wheels
were in the air and then we heard the explosion. It the missile went about one
metre above the wing," he said.

The pilot initially prepared for an emergency landing in Nairobi, Kenya, to
check whether the plane was damaged, but after consultations with Israeli
officials, it was agreed to fly directly to Israel. It was not until the plane
was inside Israeli air space and under escort from fighter jets that passengers
were told how close to death they had come.

Once safely landed, some were critical of the security at the hotel. "I didn't
see any security," said Ofer Shtrer. "Maybe they were undercover. Usually, on
Israeli package holidays, all over the world, they have undercover security men
following the tourists."

Mr Shtrer said the hotel took details of where guests were going every time they
left the building. But he said people were not checked coming into the hotel, as
they are routinely at most cafes and restaurants in Israeli cities.

However, Haim Avissar, manager of Paradise Mombasa tours, which owns the hotel
and was on the flight, stressed that there had been a 25-strong security team at
the hotel.

The hunt was on last night for the surviving terrorists from the white Pajero
whom it is believed will have disappeared into the ethnic melting pot of
Mombasa.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS: KENYA: THE FLIGHT - HOLIDAYMAKERS WHO ESCAPED DEATH TWICE IN ONE
DAY;
 THE FLIGHT

BYLINE: Justin Huggler In Tel Aviv A passenger shows her relief as an Israeli
fighter escorts the airliner back to Tel Aviv, left; the plane is checked for
damage at Ben; Gurion airport and an Israeli woman hugs her daughter at the
airport, centre, and Rafi Marek, the pilot of the Arkia charter flight targeted
by missiles AP/E-Lance Media/MAXPPP

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 735 words


WHEN THE passengers on board the Arkia charter flight from Mombasa to Tel Aviv
noticed an odd sound of a muffled explosion just after take- off yesterday, they
had just checked out of the Hotel Paradise, where someone was about to drive a
jeep full of explosives through the front door.

In checking out of the hotel that morning they escaped death for the first time.
The strange noise outside the plane was of them escaping death for the second
time.

Not until much later in the flight did the crew reveal the whole story to the
passengers: what had happened at the hotel and how the crew now believed that
strange noise was a missile exploding a few feet from the plane.

When they flew in over Jerusalem, they were given an escort by two Israeli
fighter jets. On board the plane, the passengers started singing an Israeli folk
song together.

In the arrivals hall, they were clearly in shock. One woman burst into tears as
she told the camera crews what had happened. Young women, their hair newly
plaited and beaded as a memento of Kenya, stood and stared into space.

They had realised they were almost shot out of the sky.

Because this was the only way to visit Kenya, Israelis thought safe. Some might
say it was risky for Israelis to be in Kenya after the bombing of the US embassy
there in 1998, which was thought to be the work of al- Qa'ida.

But these people thought they were safe because they were flying on an Israeli
plane, on an Israeli package deal. "That's why I chose an Israeli hotel, for
sure. I thought there would be security," said Ofer Shtrer, one of 251
passengers on the plane. It was a weekly flight, and was always full, according
to a representative of the tour operator. Hours before the missile attack, the
plane had arrived from Tel Aviv full of passengers who were checking into the
Hotel Paradise when it was bombed. The targets were carefully chosen yesterday.

Mr Shtrer was almost in the Hotel Paradise when the bomb went off. He and a
friend were told there was not room for them on the plane, and they would have
to wait for another flight. At the last minute, he was told that there were
seats. Instead of heading back to the hotel, he climbed on board the 757.

"We were sitting at the rear of the plane," said Mr Shtrer. "Suddenly I heard a
noise. I heard a bang. Everybody looked out the windows. People were saying
maybe we hit a bird. But I knew someone tried to shoot us."

A few rows away, Shlomo Mizra was sitting with his wife. He heard the same
strange noise. "We were the height of a four, maybe a five-storey building up
from the ground," he said. "I saw two plumes of white smoke through the window.
When we landed I checked to see if there was any damage outside the plane where
I had been sitting." The pilot, Captain Rafi Marek, said he and his crew saw the
same trails of white smoke from the cockpit.

Israelis believe they have the best airline security in the world. But a missile
strike is their nightmare. Israeli officials may check passengers before they
board the plane, there may be plainclothes security guards flying on board. But
they can do nothing to stop a missile.

A Kenyan police official confirmed yesterday that two missiles had been fired at
the plane. "About two kilometres from the airport, two missiles were fired at
the aircraft from a white Pajero a jeep ," said Kimgori Mwangi, a police
spokesman, adding that the people in the jeep were "suspected" to be of Arab
origin. The airport perimeter was the weak point in Israeli security. They could
control who got on the plane but they could not control who was watching it take
off from the ground.

Arkia officials said they were yet not sure it had been a missile attack. But
passengers said the crew had told them three missiles had been fired at the
plane, and that at least one had exploded before it hit it. That would account
for the muffled explosion.

Captain Marek said the plane was flying at about 500ft at the time. He said that
the missiles only missed the plane by a small distance but that when he and his
two co-pilots checked their instruments there was no sign of any damage. After
consulting officials in Israel they decided not to make an emergency landing in
Nairobi and instead continue to Tel Aviv.

No one on board the plane was hurt. But within minutes there was a deadly attack
on the Hotel Paradise.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS: KENYA: THE MISSILES

BYLINE: Thomas Sigmond

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 122 words


THE TWO missiles that narrowly missed the Israeli jetliner were heat-seeking,
Soviet-era Sam-7s, known as Strelas. These "fire-and-forget" weapons can knock a
plane out of the sky at 14,000ft. They cost $ 600,000 (pounds 385,000) on the
black market and US forces in Afghanistan seized nearly 6,000 of them. They are
the ideal terrorist weapon, simple to assemble and can be launched from sea,
land and air. The most feared surface- to-air missile is the Stinger. This
infra-red, heat-seeker can hit an aircraft at 35,000ft. The CIA armed the Afghan
mujahedin with them. Some Israeli passenger jets have electronic
missile-detection systems. This airliner might have been flying too low for such
measures to be of use.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS: KENYA: THE RESORT - CRUMBLING PORT RINGED BY HOTELS IS HUB OF
MUSLIM POPULATION;
 THE RESORT

BYLINE: Declan Walsh The Hotel Paradise is one of hundreds on the coast

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 503 words


FOR TERRORISTS hunting tourist blood, the Mombasa coast is rich in targets.
Holidaymakers from all over the world come to dip their toes in the warm Indian
Ocean waters, or lounge under a coconut tree. They range from hippy backpackers
to the Hollywood jet-set, from safari-weary Britons to package-tour Israelis.

The Hotel Paradise is among hundreds that dot the white sand beaches stretching
from Tanzania in the south to tumultuous Somalia in the north. Some of its
clients were apparently package tourists; others may have arrived after a safari
in a national park, such as the Masai Mara, a typical itinerary.

Most tourists pay only a fleeting visit to Mombasa town, a heaving, sweaty port
of migrants, mosques and the hub of Kenya's Muslim population.

It has slowly crumbled in the way of many Kenyan urban centres in recent years.
The main thoroughfare, Moi Avenue, is lined with shabby shop-fronts, and
although the old city has charm it lacks modern tourist facilities.

The road leading to Nairobi, ruined by years of lorry traffic heading for the
African interior, is, in places, a virtual assault course of crater- like
potholes.

Instead, most tourists are shuttled straight to their beach resorts. The
Association of British Travel Agents (Abta) said yesterday that it expected few
among the 80,000 Britons who travel to Kenya every year to change their plans
because of the bombing.

Keith Betton, Abta's head of corporate affairs, said: "It's the type of long
-haul destination favoured by independent travellers heading off on safari. I
don't think many will change their plans." British Airways and Kenya Airways
said their flights to Nairobi were operating as normal.

The Hotel Paradise was owned and mostly frequented by Israelis. This is not
unusual. Some Mombasa beaches are dominated by Germans, and in Malindi, Italian
is as easily spoken as English.

Towards Somalia, the island of Lamu has become the haunt both of hippies and the
international glitterati. Princess Caroline of Monaco, whose family own several
properties on the strictly Muslim island, is a regular visitor.

But although coast tourism should be one of Kenya's greatest cash cows, it has
been badly hit in recent years.

Politically inspired riots south of Mombasa before the 1997 elections, broadcast
around the world on television, dealt a body blow to the industry. That damage
has been slowly compounded in the years since by Kenya's growing reputation for
lawlessness. Nairobi, in particular, has been nicknamed "Nairobbery".

Yesterday, a press officer at the Kenya High Commission in London tried to talk
down further damage. "People who have booked holidays should continue; there's
no problem," he said. "As far as we can see it's an isolated incident." But
tourists do not think in terms of "isolated incidents". Like Bali, Kenya's
tourist industry is facing ruin.

The brochures often depict Kenya's beaches as a deserted paradise. Soon the
image may be coming painfully true.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS: KENYA: ALERTS - AUSTRALIA WARNED WEEKS AGO OF HIGH THREAT' OF
MOMBASA ATTACK

BYLINE: Declan Walsh And Cahal Milmo The Hotel Paradise is one of hundreds on
the coast

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 496 words


THE AUSTRALIAN government issued a clear warning to its citizens two weeks ago
about the "high threat" of a terrorist attack in Mombasa.

The detailed nature of the advice from Australia's Department of Foreign Affairs
gave rise to fresh doubts about the amount of intelligence passed on to the
citizens of other Western countries, in particular Britain.

Travellers from Australia were given an updated briefing on 12 November that the
threat to "Western interests" in the Kenyan port city was high and that all
non-essential travel, including tourist trips, should be cancelled.

The advice was in stark contrast to that issued by the Foreign Office in London,
which repeated a generic warning issued after the attack in Bali on 12 October
that British citizens across the world should be aware of the increased risk of
"indiscriminate attacks" on public places by terrorists.

Foreign Office officials updated their travel advice on Kenya last night to take
note of yesterday's missile and bomb assaults in Mombasa, but stopped short of
adding Kenya to the list of countries they advise people not to visit.

A Foreign Office spokesman declined to discuss whether diplomats had known of
the Australian warning, saying: "We had no information about a specific attack
or threat to Mombasa. If we had received information of a specific threat, it
would have been reflected in our travel advice."

Even with its updated position, the UK government remained considerably less
prescriptive in its travel advice than other Western countries, in particular
Australia.

The briefing issued on the internet from Canberra warned Australians to avoid
hotels, clubs and restaurants in Kenya and in particular to avoid Mombasa.

It said: "Threats against Westerners and Western interests in Mombasa are high.
Australians are advised to defer all non-essential travel to Mombasa and
Australians in Mombasa who are concerned about their security should consider
departure."

Concern that Western intelligence agencies were aware of a specific threat of an
attack in East Africa was increased when French terrorism experts said it had
been known for three weeks that al-Qa'ida was planning an attack.

The Paris-based International Observatory on Terrorism said information had been
circulating that the Yemeni head of the terror group in the region was looking
to score a spectacular hit.

The FBI in America also warned six months ago that civilian airliners could be
targeted by terrorists using shoulder-launched missiles.

The Mombasa coast was an obvious choice for terrorists seeking to kill tourists.
Dotted along the length of its white sand beaches are hundreds of hotels and
resorts. It forms a key part of the Kenyan tourism industry that supports
500,000 people and accounts for 12 per cent of GDP.

Tourism chiefs in the country admitted that they were braced for a sharp short
-term downturn in visitor numbers because of the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS ISRAEL: REACTION - SHARON ORDERS MOSSAD TO DISCOVER WHO WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR TWIN ASSAULTS;
 REACTION

BYLINE: Justin Huggler

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 403 words


"OUR HAND will reach them," said Israel's Defence Minister, Shaul Mofaz, after
the attacks in Kenya yesterday. He promised Israel would hunt down those
responsible and retaliate.

The Israeli Prime Minister, Ariel Sharon, ordered Mossad, the intelligence
agency, to find out who was behind the bombing of the Hotel Paradise and the
missile attack on a passenger plane.

Meanwhile the Israeli Embassy in the South African capital Pretoria was closed
because of warnings that it might be attacked.

While Mr Sharon and his ministers said publicly that they did not know who was
behind the attacks, unnamed officials were busy briefing that the attacks showed
every sign of being the work of al-Qa'ida.

The Ha'aretz newspaper's website quoted "security sources" as saying that,
though they did not have any hard information, the "professionalism" of the
attacks pointed to Osama bin Laden's organisation.

The Foreign Minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, was busy sowing doubts. He didn't know
whether Palestinian groups were involved in the attacks in Kenya, Mr Netanyahu
said, but he claimed he did know they had been trying to get hold of
shoulder-launched missiles. Kenyan police said shoulder- launched missiles were
fired at the Israeli plane.

Mr Netanyahu said: "Terror organisations and the regimes behind them are able to
arm themselves with weapons which can cause mass casualties anywhere and
everywhere.

"Today, they're firing the missiles at Israeli planes, tomorrow they'll fire
missiles at American planes, British planes, every country's aircraft." The
Israeli government has long sought to portray its fight against Palestinian
militants as directly equivalent to George Bush's "war on terror".

Mr Sharon said: "The state of Israel is facing a wave of murderous terrorism."
He linked the attacks in Kenya with Palestinian militant attacks on Israelis.
"Women, children, old people and young people are being killed simply because
they are Jews. We are fighting terror everywhere."

An adviser to Mr Sharon, Zalman Shoval, said: "We will have to wait for further
information and intelligence to see where the tracks lead to and then Israel
will make decisions and it will not make any rash decisions." The head of the
Israeli air force, General Dan Halutz, said that anti- missile defences were not
usually fitted to civilian aircraft, but if airlines wanted them, they could be.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS ISRAEL: SHOOTING - FIVE KILLED AS GUNMEN OPEN FIRE ON POLL
STATION;
 SHOOTING

BYLINE: Justin Huggler In Jerusalem An Israeli police officer guards the scene
of yesterday's shooting attack in Beit Shean Lefteris Pitarakis/AP

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 585 words


AT LEAST five Israelis were killed and more than 30 were wounded yesterday when
two Palestinian gunmen opened fire on voters in the Likud party leadership
contest in the northern town of Beit She'an. The gunmen also sprayed a nearby
bus station.

The al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades, which has links with Yasser Arafat's Fatah
movement, claimed responsibility - which may mean the end of an undeclared
ceasefire under which parts of the group were believed to have halted attacks
inside Israel.

The shootings happened at about 3.20pm local time (1.20pm GMT). The local mayor,
Pini Kabalo, said the gunmen first attacked the bus station, and moved to the
local Likud Party headquarters when they saw the crowds there. A police
official, Colonel Danny Koffler, said the gunmen drove straight up to the party
building in a stolen white Mazda, threw grenades, and opened fire.

Gilit Cohen, who lives near the scene of the shooting, told Israeli Army Radio:
"I opened the window and I simply saw the terrorist standing, smiling, laughing
and shooting in all directions. He simply shot and shot and shot, and he didn't
stop. People were fleeing and falling."

The two gunmen were shot dead, apparently by an off-duty officer from the
Israeli Border Police, who grabbed his gun and ran to the scene. Some
eyewitnesses said they saw a third gunman, and police were still searching the
area last night.

Three of the injured were sons of the former foreign minister David Levy, who
were involved in the Likud ballot.

Mr Sharon, who was well ahead of his rival Binyamin Netanyahu in the polls and
widely expected to win yesterday's leadership contest, said in a televised
address: "Terror is trying to frighten the voters. It doesn't matter who you
support, don't allow terror to frighten you. Go and vote! Go and vote!

"I call on the Likud members to go and vote. We won't allow the murderers to
ruin our lives." There had earlier been speculation that the Likud Party would
postpone the leadership election.

Mr Sharon accused the Palestinians and governments of Arab countries of trying
to influence the Israeli elections and get a government to their liking, but
refused to elaborate.

Mr Arafat's Palestinian Authority said: "We strongly condemn the operation in
Beit She'an against Israeli civilians... This operation will not help the
Palestinian people and its cause".

The al-Aqsa Brigades said the shootings were in revenge for the death of the
group's local leader and a commander in Jenin earlier this week (Beit She'an is
close to Jenin). The two men died in an explosion which Palestinian militants
said was caused by an Israeli missile strike. The Israeli army denied it had
anything to do with the men's deaths - it has a stated policy of assassinating
militant leaders, and usually admits when it has killed them.

The al-Aqsa Brigades was widely believed to have agreed a temporary halt to
attacks inside Israel, under pressure from the Palestinian leadership, but not
the Occupied Territories - although al-Aqsa militants claimed responsibility for
the murder of five people, including two children, in a kibbutz earlier this
month.

w A four-year-old Palestinian boy was killed in the West Bank city of Hebron
yesterday as he stood near a window in his house. Palestinian doctors said the
child, Abbas Attrash, was hit in the stomach by a bullet fired by Israeli
troops. Israeli military officials maintain that the boy was hit by fragments of
a bomb thrown at troops.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS ISRAEL: ELECTIONS - LIKUD'S VOTERS ARE URGED TO DEFY THE
MURDERERS';
 ELECTIONS

BYLINE: Dan Perry In Jerusalem

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 385 words


YESTERDAY'S SHOOTING spree by a pair of Palestinian gunmen at a polling station
in northern Israel, and the twin attacks on Israeli tourists in Kenya, marred a
Likud Party leadership primary in which Prime Minister Ariel Sharon was expected
to defeat Foreign Minister Binyamin Netanyahu.

The Likud race was widely seen as determining who will lead Israel after the 28
January general election, because the rightist bloc of parties led by Likud has
enjoyed commanding leads in the polls.

As the month-long campaign wound down, polls among the 300,000 Likud members
showed Mr Sharon leading the once-favoured Mr Netanyahu by over 20 per cent. TV
projections and early results were expected after polls close at 10pm (8pm UK
time).

At a news conference, Mr Sharon urged Likud members to vote despite the Beit
Shean polling station attack, claimed by the Al Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade. "We
cannot allow the murderers to disrupt our lives," he said.

It was not clear how yesterday's attacks would influence the Likud vote -
although historically terrorism has tended to make Israelis more hawkish, which
could help Mr Ne-tanyahu's chances.

Furthermore, Israeli media reported turnout was unusually low - a trend which,
if it persists, could significantly skew the results.

The winner will face Labour's ex-general Amram Mitzna, who favours an immediate
return to peace talks with the aim of swiftly withdrawing troops and settlers
from most of the West Bank and Gaza, territories Israel seized in 1967.

Mr Netanyahu was once considered practically a shoo-in for a return to the prime
minister's position. But Mr Sharon's decision to give him the foreign minister's
job restricted his room for manoeuvre, as he risked being labelled disloyal
whenever he criticised his boss.

"Sharon drags around a paltry list of achievements, but the failures don't stick
to him," wrote political commentator Ben Caspit in the Maariv newspaper. "On the
contrary ... the father of the nation, the ultimate Teflon, is sailing calmly
toward a second term. Who would have believed it?"

Still, many people remain undecided and polls also show the Israeli public is
deeply dissatisfied - with the economy plummeting, peace prospects dim and
Israelis appearing more vulnerable to terrorism than ever before.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS: ISRAEL: ELECTIONS - SHARON CRUSHES NETANYAHU IN LIKUD ELECTION

BYLINE: Justin Huggler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 410 words


BINYAMIN NETANYAHU ack-nowledged last night that he had been beaten by Ariel
Sharon in yesterday's Likud Party leadership election and said he would work
with the Prime Minister towards achieving victory in Israel's general election
in January.

Mr Netanyahu conceded defeat after television exit polls showed Mr Sharon
retaining the leadership by a large margin. And with the right-wing Likud Party
riding high in opinion polls, Mr Sharon looks likely to will win another term as
Prime Minister and lead Israel through the continuing Palestinian intifada, and
possibly an American attack on Iraq.

The first exit poll, for Israel's Channel One television, had Mr Sharon winning
with 61 per cent of the vote to Mr Netanyahu's 37 per cent. A slightly closer
poll for Channel Two had 58 per cent for Mr Sharon, 40.5 per cent for Mr
Netanyahu.

For Mr Netanyahu the results were disastrous. He waited a long time to attempt a
political comeback, only to see it fall apart. Israeli commentators are
predicting that Mr Sharon has won by such a wide margin that he can afford to
renege on a commitment to keep Mr Netanyahu as Foreign Minister if he wins the
January election.

But it is too early to write the political obituaries for Mr Netanyahu, who was
Prime Minister from 1996 to 1999. He has been written off many times before and,
at 20 years Mr Sharon's junior, he has time on his side. But the immediate
future appears to belong to Mr Sharon.

There has been little sign of hope for the peace process, and little for the
Palestinians to celebrate either. Though Likud's rival, the Labour Party,
elected as its leader for January's elections a moderate who has promised to
resume peace talks with Yasser Arafat if he becomes Prime Minister, polls
indicate that Mr Sharon will brush Amram Mitzna aside as effortlessly as Mr
Netanyahu.

Mr Sharon, a hardliner who was once seen as beyond the pale by many Israelis,
has managed to pass himself off as the middle path between the peace proposals
of Mr Mitzna and Mr Netanyahu's extreme demands to expel Mr Arafat and tear up
American proposals for a Palestinian state.

This contest was always going to be about whether Mr Sharon or Mr Netanyahu was
better equipped to represent the hardline approach. Mr Netanyahu came unstuck
because his demands allowed Mr Sharon - who would like to expel Mr Arafat if he
felt it would not jeopardise ties with America - to appear more statesmanlike.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 2002, Friday

TERROR ATTACKS: ELUSIVE BIN LADEN STILL HAS THE GLOBAL REACH TO STRIKE TERROR AT
WILL

BYLINE: Robert Fisk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1036 words


IT WAS inevitable. It was the nightmare of Israeli officials that there would be
an al-Qa'ida attack on the Jewish state.

The one thing they did not think about, even after Bali, is that al-Qa'ida would
strike Israel abroad. Of course, there were political advantages for the
Israelis which they used: the Palestinians could be blamed, even if they had
nothing to do with the suicide-bombing of the Paradise Hotel.

As usual, al-Qa'ida did not care about casualties who were not in their target
frame.

Just as Kenyans provided most of the death toll of the al-Qa'ida bombing of the
US embassy in Nairobi four years ago, so Kenyans were the principal victims in
Mombasa yesterday.

Children died if they were the target nationality. But the attack provided
proof, yet again, that Osama bin Laden's outfit has what the Americans would
call "global reach".

Bin Laden's men can strike in Bali, Singapore, Afghanistan, Kuwait, over the
Atlantic, in Saudi Arabia, in Yemen, in New York and Washington and in a
Pennsylvania field.

The "Army of Palestine", which claimed the attacks in Kenya, is assuredly
mythical, though this claim of responsibility will be used by the Israelis. The
"army" largely failed in its assault. It is important to realise this when one
calculates the results of al-Qa'ida's latest attack.

The two missiles failed to destroy the Israeli airliner. The suicide bombers
surely hoped for a far greater death toll: 28 November was intended to be
Israel's 11 September, with a list of 300 or 400 dead.

In the event, the Israeli victims numbered three. If one looks for a signature,
al-Qa'ida assuredly left its initials on yesterday's killings.

Suicide bombers; simultaneous attacks; Kenya; a holiday resort. To use the word
"hallmark" has become a cliche - but the Mombasa attacks had al-Qa'ida written
all over them.

Two months ago, Israel's senior military intelligence officers were privately
expressing concern that al-Qa'ida would strike Israel next. They talked about
high buildings in Tel Aviv, nuclear missile sites in the Negev desert - they
talked about this softly, of course, because the world is not supposed to
discuss Israel's nuclear capability - but they feared, rightly, that Bin Laden
would try to put Israel in the same frame as the United States.

And he has. For whatever al-Qa'ida did yesterday, it set Israel up alongside
America. The Israeli Prime Minister, Ariel Sharon, has claimed, since 11
September, that Israel stands beside President George Bush in his "war on
terror". The conflict has - thanks to Washington's one-sided, hopelessly biased
Middle East policy - given the impression that Mr Sharon and Mr Bush espouse the
same goals.

Now the world has to acknowledge that Mr Sharon - regarded as a war criminal by
millions of Arabs for his "personal responsibility" for the 1982 Sabra and
Chatila massacre of Palestinian civilians - has a reason to fight al-Qa'ida.

Are there any Palestinians in the ranks of Bin Laden's legions? I never met any
- and I met dozens of his men in Sudan and Afghanistan.

But by attacking Israelis, al-Qa'ida has, in effect, taken on the cloak of the
intifada.

If a Palestinian suicide bomber can kill 11 Israelis in Jerusalem and an al
-Qa'ida suicide squad can kill three Israelis in Mombasa, what is the
difference?

In future, any Israeli assault in the occupied West Bank and Gaza can be
portrayed as part of the hunt for Bin Laden's men.

An Israeli air raid, no matter how many children it kills, can be depicted as no
different to the US raids on Afghan villages.

Let's not for a moment imagine that this thought did not occur to al- Qa'ida.

In an organisation to whom the idea of "collateral damage" - itself obscene
enough on our tongues - is meaningless, the re-intensification of Israeli
firepower is an inevitable act. The more Arabs realise the brutality of their
enemy's revenge, the more powerful is al-Qa'ida's reach.

Yesterday's attack - minimal in terms of Israeli casualties compared to the
death toll of recent Palestinian suicide bombings - does not change that.

Two ruthless Israeli leaders will vie with each other for the right to strike
back. The Bush administration, after 11 September, will not be urging restraint.

So what does it tell us about Bin Laden? It shows that his men, yet again, can
attack their enemies at will. Mombasa and an Israeli-owned hotel - how one gasps
in awe at the courage of Israeli holidaymakers - should have been obvious
security risks. It was just up the coast in Mogadishu that Bin Laden's fighters
first took on the Americans - as he told me himself in 1997.

The Nairobi bombing of the US embassy four years ago, along with the embassy in
Dar es Salaam, should have proved al-Qa'ida's strength in Africa.

And the "text" of the attack goes further. Al-Qa'ida attacked a holiday resort
in Bali. So they attacked Mombasa. They tried to sink the USS Cole in Aden with
a suicide-bomber's boat.

They tried to sink the French oil tanker Limburg in Octoberwith an identical
mode of assault. They bombed two US embassies in Africa. They struck two towers
of the World Trade Centre.

Yesterday, they twinned the Mombasa hotel with the attempted missile attack on
the Israeli holidaymakers' plane. Where next? Well, we have heard Bin Laden's
hit list: Britain first, then France, Italy and Canada.

Do not believe for a moment that al-Qa'ida strategists haven't taken a look at
the targets available to them. They have looked at everything, just as the
Algerian GIA gunmen did more than four years ago when they planned to fly a
hijacked Air France aircraft into the Eiffel Tower.

Be sure they have looked at the Thames Barrier and the Eurostar and all the
other soft, vulnerable symbols of our society. Because they want to bring Europe
into an alliance with America and Israel.

The pathetic "clash of civilisations" predicted in Samuel Huntington's book of
the same name is as important to Bin Laden's followers as it is to the right
-wing American Christian fundamentalists who make the revolting claim that the
Prophet Mohamed was a paedophile.

Yesterday was another step in that direction.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 29, 2002

Fifteen Die In Terrorist Attack On Hotel

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 465 words


Two children were among at least 15 people killed yesterday when a suicide
bomber stormed a Kenyan hotel in a devastating attack linked to Osama bin Laden.
A large blast was triggered after a 4x4 vehicle crashed through a barrier
outside the reception at the Israeli-owned Paradise hotel in Kikambala, 15 miles
from Mombasa.

The blast happened just as two missiles were fired at an Israeli holiday jet
that had taken off from the city's airport.

The missiles narrowly missed the Arkia airline plane, a Boeing 757 carrying 261
passengers, but a large part of the Paradise Hotel was reduced to rubble and the
rest is a smouldering shell.

Kenyan police said seven nationals were among the dead at the Paradise.

The bomb ripped a massive hole in the hotel as many guests sat down to
breakfast.

Fire tore through the building, sparking widescale panic and screaming. At least
80 people, including 17 Israelis, were wounded.

One witness said: "People were cut up in the legs, arms, all over their bodies."
Israeli officials were quick to point the finger of suspicion for both attacks
at the al-Qaeda network, headed by bin Laden.

Kenya's ambassador to Israel said there was no doubt al-Qaeda was responsible
for the terror strikes.

Most of the Kenyan victims were believed to be traditional dancers whose job
involved welcoming guests to the hotel, a popular Israeli family tourist spot.

Israeli foreign minister Benjamin Netanyahu told Israeli Army Radio: "To my
regret there are two dead, two children." At least seven other Israelis,
including a child, were yesterday receiving hospital treatment for injuries.
Some had deep cuts and metal objects lodged in their bodies. Many others escaped
with cuts and bruises.

The bomb was detonated by a man of Arabic origin at about 8.30am, just after a
party of 60 tourists had checked out. Two accomplices were outside in a white
all-terrain vehicle.

As the first blast shook the building and sent a fireball shooting through the
corridors, the duo sparked a second suicide bomb which destroyed their vehicle.

Nancy Kirui, the Kenya High Commissioner, insisted her country was a safe
destination for tourists and said police had arrested two people in connection
with the attacks.

She said: "I would like to assure the tourists who have booked holidays to come
to Kenya in the coming months that they should do so.

"Kenya is safe. We believe that this incident will not happen again." She added
that security had been stepped up at the Kenyan borders.

Mrs Kirui said that the two people who had fired missiles at the passenger jet
had escaped in a car to Nairobi. Two people had since been arrested but she
could not say if they were the same pair accused of attacking the plane.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Western Daily Press

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 29, 2002

Fifteen die in terrorist attack on hotel

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.2

LENGTH: 465 words


TWO children were among at least 15 people killed yesterday when a suicide
bomber stormed a Kenyan hotel in a devastating attack linked to Osama bin Laden.

A large blast was triggered after a 4x4 vehicle crashed through a barrier
outside the reception at the Israeli-owned Paradise hotel in Kikambala, 15 miles
from Mombasa.

The blast happened just as two missiles were fired at an Israeli holiday jet
that had taken off from the city's airport.

The missiles narrowly missed the Arkia airline plane, a Boeing 757 carrying 261
passengers, but a large part of the Paradise Hotel was reduced to rubble and the
rest is a smouldering shell.

Kenyan police said seven nationals were among the dead at the Paradise.

The bomb ripped a massive hole in the hotel as many guests sat down to
breakfast.

Fire tore through the building, sparking widescale panic and screaming. At least
80 people, including 17 Israelis, were wounded.

One witness said: "People were cut up in the legs, arms, all over their bodies."

Israeli officials were quick to point the finger of suspicion for both attacks
at the al-Qaeda network, headed by bin Laden.

Kenya's ambassador to Israel said there was no doubt al-Qaeda was responsible
for the terror strikes.

Most of the Kenyan victims were believed to be traditional dancers whose job
involved welcoming guests to the hotel, a popular Israeli family tourist spot.

Israeli foreign minister Benjamin Netanyahu told Israeli Army Radio: "To my
regret there are two dead, two children."

At least seven other Israelis, including a child, were yesterday receiving
hospital treatment for injuries. Some had deep cuts and metal objects lodged in
their bodies. Many others escaped with cuts and bruises.

The bomb was detonated by a man of Arabic origin at about 8.30am, just after a
party of 60 tourists had checked out. Two accomplices were outside in a white
all-terrain vehicle.

As the first blast shook the building and sent a fireball shooting through the
corridors, the duo sparked a second suicide bomb which destroyed their vehicle.

Nancy Kirui, the Kenya High Commissioner, insisted her country was a safe
destination for tourists and said police had arrested two people in connection
with the attacks.

She said: "I would like to assure the tourists who have booked holidays to come
to Kenya in the coming months that they should do so.

"Kenya is safe. We believe that this incident will not happen again."

She added that security had been stepped up at the Kenyan borders.

Mrs Kirui said that the two people who had fired missiles at the passenger jet
had escaped in a car to Nairobi. Two people had since been arrested but she
could not say if they were the same pair accused of attacking the plane.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 30, 2002

No terror attack alert says Straw

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 178 words


LONDON: Foreign Secretary Jack Straw last night insisted the Government had no
intelligence warning of a terrorist threat to Mombasa in the run-up to the
suicide-bombing at a hotel, and missile attack on an Israeli airliner.

The Government has been under pressure to disclose whether it was aware of any
warnings after it emerged Australia had received intelligence more than two
weeks ago of "possible terrorist attacks against Western interests" in the
Kenyan resort.

The Foreign Office has now amended its travel advice on Kenya to warn British
tourists to be aware of "the threat posed by terrorism in East Africa".

A blonde American woman and her Spanish husband are among 13 people being held
by police investigating the twin terror attacks in Kenya.

Alicia Kalhammer, in her 20s, from Florida was arrested with her husband as they
"hurriedly" tried to leave their hotel 90 minutes after the suicide car bombing
at an Israeli-owned resort three miles away.

The massive blast killed 10 Kenyans, three Israelis and the three bombers.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 30, 2002, Saturday

Mossad sets out on uphill path to avenge bombing Terror in Kenya: Hunt for the
attackers may be impossible without help from America - but Washington is
reluctant to commit itself

BYLINE: By Alan Philps in Jerusalem

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 809 words

WITH the words "our arm is long", the prime minister, Ariel Sharon, left
Israelis in no doubt that the Mossad, or external intelligence service, would
wreak vengeance sooner or later for the victims of the Mombasa hotel bombing.

"This is a turning point. It is like the massacre at the Munich Olympics in
1970," said Zalman Shoval, a diplomatic adviser to the prime minister. That
event, in which 11 Israeli athletes taken hostage by Palestinian terrorists were
killed in a botched German rescue attempt, was followed by the systematic
elimination of the organisers.

Golda Meir, the then prime minister, gave orders for the liquidation of the
secret Palestinian group Black September. More than a dozen were killed in
Europe and the Middle East over a decade.

Mr Sharon has given a similar pledge, warning that "none shall escape" after the
bombing in Mombasa and the attempt to shoot down a holiday airliner with a
missile at the city's airport. Intelligence experts say, however, that it will
be far harder to track down the al-Qa'eda cell responsible - if indeed it turns
out that Osama bin Laden's network was behind it.

The first problem is that Washington has been keen to distance Israel from its
war on terror so as not to confirm the view - to use bin Laden's lexicon - that
the Crusaders (the Christian west) are in league with the Jews (Israel) against
the Arabs and Muslims.

But Israeli officials insist that Israel is now in the same trench as the
Americans. "Our hands are not tied, and there will be no problem with the
Americans," said Mr Shoval. "The Americans will appreciate that we co-operate
more and more with them. We are subject to the same attacks with the same modus
operandi."

Fighting a network that embraces the world from Indonesia through Pakistan and
India, the Middle East and Europe will be beyond the immediate capabilities of
the Mossad.

"Ultimately there is only one country with the resources to do that, and that is
the US," said Benny Morris, author of a history of Israeli intelligence
services. "Israel will be helping the Americans, as I'm sure it is doing
already."

The international climate has become harder. No European country would allow the
Mossad to kill Palestinians as happened in the 1970s. In a recent case, Mossad
agents were caught trying to bug the home of a Lebanese suspect in Switzerland.
They were arrested and some forced to stand trial. Despite this, Mr Morris said,
Israel has an advantage over America in that its parliament would never take the
Mossad to task for carrying out assassinations. "Israel has no limitations in
that respect. Even in the 21st century, it would be possible for a prime
minister to say, like Golda Meir, just go and kill them."

The new man in charge of the Mossad is Meir Dagan, a retired army general and
long-time companion of Mr Sharon. He is known for personal bravery, even
recklessness, in war and a ruthless approach to dealing with Palestinian
guerrillas.

He replaces the British-born Ephraim Halevy, whose main task was apparently to
conduct secret talks with kings and presidents of foreign countries that have no
relations with Israel. Mr Dagan is a man committed to special operations. When
the then General Sharon set about eradicating guerrillas from the Gaza Strip in
1971, Mr Dagan commanded the anti-terrorist unit.

During six months of 1971 Mr Sharon's men killed or captured 742 terrorists in
Gaza - though not much effort was made to capture them alive.

In one respect, the Mombasa operation is nothing new for the Mossad. In 1976
Kenyan police arrested two West Germans who tried to shoot down an El Al
aircraft taking off from Nairobi with a SA-7 rocket.

The close relations between the Mossad and the Kenyans came in useful in June of
that year, when Palestinians hijacked a French airliner and flew it to Entebbe,
in Uganda, demanding the release of the two Germans. This led to Israel's most
daring long-distance operation - the release of the Israeli and Jewish hostages.

Deterrence has always been a watchword for the Mossad. The Entebbe operation
showed that only death would result for those who hijacked Israelis. The
aftermath of the Munich massacre ended in the elimination of the Black September
leadership. It may not be so with Islamic militant groups, which are loosely
knit, spread around the globe and seemingly unafraid of death.

For bin Laden's Arab supporters, the Mombasa operation looks like a dramatic
success, since it is the first time he has drawn Israeli blood.

And Arab commentators will not be surprised at Israel's joining the war on
terror. "This will just confirm all the suspicions that Israel and the US are in
cahoots regarding the so-called terrorism," said Labib Kamhawi, a Jordanian
analyst and businessman. "It proves that the war on terror is a war on Arabs and
Muslims."

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     November 30, 2002, Saturday Edition 1

Parents' terror at Kenya attack

BYLINE: By Rob Kennedy, Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 330 words


   The parents of a Tyneside man caught up in the terrorist attack in Kenya have
spoken of their shock.

As revealed in last night's Chronicle, David Patten was in a fishing boat near
the hotel which was blown up with a car full of explosives on Thursday.

Mr Patten, 22, from Newcastle, was staying next to the Paradise Hotel in the
Indian Ocean resort of Mombasa when it was attacked.

Today his parents, Matty and Margaret, told of their shock at finding out he had
been so close to the atrocity and spoke of how their son can not wait to get
back to the North East.

Mr Patten snr, of Cheeseburn Gardens, Fenham, said: "We got a terrible fright
when we heard about it.

"He's been to Mombasa before and really loves it.

"When I heard about the bombing it gave us a real fright until he phoned up. It
was a massive relief and now all he wants is to get back here."

Mrs Patten added: "I was worried sick until he rang, I just wish he was home."

Mr Patten, an assistant bar manager in Newcastle, was in Mombasa with his
girlfriend, Helen Thirwell, and her parents David and Jean.

He saw the bombing from a fishing boat off the Kenyan coast and immediately ran
ashore to check they were all safe before ringing his parents to reassure them
he was okay.

Mr Patten, who went to Kenton School in Newcastle, had been in Mombasa for a
fortnight.

Yesterday he told BBC Radio's Today programme of the aftermath of the attack. He
said: "For the first few hours afterwards it was really, really nerve-wracking,
it was just awful.

"I went to see my girlfriend and gave her a big kiss. I've never been so pleased
to see someone in my life."

Kenyan Police have arrested 12 people in connection with the hotel attack and an
attempt to shoot down an Israeli passenger plane leaving nearby Mombasa Airport.

At least 16 people died in the hotel, including 10 Kenyans, three Israelis and
three suicide bombers who have been linked to Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda
network.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 2002

Kenya terror attack: Comment: Bin Laden's cowardly warriors selected the softest
of targets

BYLINE: Mutuma Mathiu

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 627 words


God, the preachers say, does not give you more problems than you can handle. In
Kenya's case, He is cutting it close.

For the second time in less than five years, Osama bin Laden, like an evil
genie, has breathed the foul evil of terrorism on our country. Kenyans across
the country are shocked, scared and angry. Above all, they are furious at
al-Qaida's unfairness. Don't we have enough problems without a mad mullah
exporting his perverted jihad to our country, they ask.

A poor country whose people have an average income of a dollar a day, which is
daily losing 500 citizens to Aids, a tattered economy, bogged down by a million
orphans, is not a worthy adversary for any self-respecting warrior. But the
soldiers of al-Qaida are not warriors. They are cowards.

Before 1998, Kenya had no external enemies. By his unprovoked attacks and
consistent attempts to play Kenya as a pawn in his game against America, Israel
and the entire western hegemony, Bin Laden has made himself Kenya's enemy number
one.

Bin Laden knows this part of Africa, having lived in Sudan for five years under
the protection of fundamen talists such as Hassan al Tourabi. He was finally
expelled and joined the Taliban in Afghanistan but is now believed to be a
fugitive somewhere in central Asia.

Why Kenya? Experts say basically the country is a "soft target", a chink in the
west's armour. It is affluent enough, by African standards, to have western
investments and interests but without enough money to buy world class security;
sufficiently democratic - and corrupt - to allow the terrorists and their
equipment to move around, and with good communications to put the terrorists'
handiwork on to the big media networks.

The Americans have been convinced that there are al-Qaida sympathisers at the
Kenyan coast. Added to our proximity to Somalia, where al-Qaida cells are said
to exist, then it is easy to see why Kenya is one of Bin Laden's favourite
targets.

His grievances are impossible to address. He most probably wants the complete
destruction of Israel and the elimination of western influence around the world.

He is also understood to prefer the overthrow of democratic governments in
Muslim countries, to be replaced by purist, oddball theocracies, such as that
established by the Taliban in Afghanistan.

The terrorist's strategy is to attack Israeli and American targets wherever they
exist in the world. But they end up hurting societies which have nothing to do
with their dispute.

A terrorist attack against the holiday resort of Bali in Indonesia has reduced
it to a tourist ghost town. The August 8 1998 bomb blast killed more than 200
Kenyans but only 12 Americans, who were supposedly the real target.

It is expected that the coast attacks will severely affect tourism into whose
recovery a lot of work has gone in the last five years. It will also undermine
Kenya's attractiveness to investors and hurt the delivery of services and public
investment because scarce resources will be diverted to counter terrorism.

Kenya's ability to make a meaningful contribution in the fight against terrorism
is small. The Bush administration created the office of homeland security with a
budget of some Dollars 40bn (pounds 25.8bn) - about 12 times the Kenyan annual
budget. Even with that, the US is not 100% certain that it could prevent an
attack on its soil.

Given that Kenyans have only a handful of bucks - with any luck - to throw at
Bin Laden's well-funded terrorists, and given the other myriad problems
confronting them, including an election in less than a month, it sure feels as
if Kenyans are getting a heavier burden than they can bear.

Mutuma Mathiu, is a columnist for the Daily Nation in Nairobi


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 2002

Kenya terror attack: 12 arrests as Israel and US join hunt: Investigation: Local
police question foreigners including two with US passports as search for
perpetrators intensifies

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor and David Pallister

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 706 words


Kenyan police were last night questioning 12 people - all foreigners - as an
international investigation was stepped up to identify the perpetrators of the
first attack on Israeli targets attributed to the al-Qaida terrorist network.

In Mombasa, teams of Israeli and US security officials joined the hunt for those
responsible for the attack on the Paradise hotel, where 15 people were killed,
including three suicide bombers, on Thursday.

A US official said that at the top of the list of suspects was the Somali-based
Islamic extremist group al-Itihad al-Islamiya, known also as the Islamic Union.
The official said al-Itihad was a prominent radical Islamist group in the Horn
of Africa. "They also possess ties to al-Qaida," he added.

Three Israelis were among the dead from the Paradise hotel blast - two brothers,
aged 13 and 15, and a 61-year-old man. The other victims were Kenyans, including
a group of dancers who had been wel coming tourists in the hotel lobby when the
bomb went off.

Kenyan police said they were holding six Pakistanis, four Somalis, a Spaniard
and an American woman for questioning about the attacks. The Pakistanis and
Somalis were arrested shortly before the attacks for entering Kenya illegally,
the police said.

Two of the 12 detained had US passports and gave an address in Florida, said Ben
Wafula, the manager of Mombasa's Le Soleil Beach Club, where they were staying
when police picked them up. A police source identified the US woman as Alicia
Kalhammer.

Peter Claussen, a US embassy spokesman, confirmed that the woman was an American
citizen. He said the man, believed to be her husband, was a Spanish national
with US residency status. Police detained Ms Kalhammer and the man as they were
checking out of Le Soleil one and a half hours after the attack on the
Israeli-owned Paradise hotel, Mr Wafula said.

A search of records in the US showed an Alicia Kalhammer living in a flat on
South Ocean Drive in Hollywood, Florida. There were reports last night that the
couple were likely to be released.

A security guard at the Paradise hotel, Justin Mundu, described how a Mitsubishi
Pajero passed the hotel gates twice. "On the third trip it came and swerved into
the hotel," he said.

Moments before the attack on the hotel, two missiles narrowly missed an Israeli
airliner taking off at the nearby airport with 261 people on board. Police said
the shoulder-held missiles were fired from a white Pajero. "The search for the
white Pajero and three occupants of Arab origin is on," said the Kenyan police
commissioner, Philemon Abong'o. The hotel attackers were also described as of
Arab appearance.

Israeli experts said secret on-board defences might have di verted the missiles.
The two missiles narrowly missed the Arkia airliner, raising speculation it had
used decoy flares. "Israel has been working on programmes to protect civil
aviation from terrorist missile attacks since the 1970s," Yigal Eyal, a Hebrew
University lec turer on insurgency, told Reuters.

During an inspection of the hotel ruins, the Kenyan president, Daniel arap Moi,
said: "Terrorism is dangerous, not only to Europe and the United States, but
also to Africa, and we must fight it."

Abdel-Bari Atwan, the editor of the London-based Arabic daily al-Quds, said he
was "100% sure" the attacks were the work of Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida
network.

Atwan, who has interviewed the Saudi-born militant, said Bin Laden had been
criticised by some Arabs for focusing on US targets, ignoring the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict. "This will enlarge al-Qaida's popularity and make
it easier for Bin Laden to recruit young hotheads and generate finance," he
added.

Dia Rashwan, an analyst at the al-Ahram centre for political and strategic
studies in Cairo, said the Mombasa attacks carried three clear messages. "One is
that al-Qaida is still there after the Afghan war. Second, and more important,
is a message to the Islamic and Arab world that al-Qaida is sincere when it says
it is against Israel and that it's not just propaganda. Third, that it is not
only alive but strong and can strike again in Kenya," he said.

Special report on Kenya at guardian.co.uk/kenya


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 2002

Kenya terror attack: Britain had warning of possible attack in Kenya

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 426 words


The British government received the same intelligence as Australia about
possible terrorist attacks in Kenya but adopted a very different response,
Whitehall sources said yesterday.

Alexander Downer, the Australian foreign minister, confirmed yesterday that his
government had received information more than two weeks ago of a possible
terrorist threat in Mombasa, Kenya's coastal resort.

It issued advice on November 12 warning Australians to put off all non-essential
travel to Mombasa because of "possible terrorist attacks against western
interests".

Here, the Foreign Office simply issued a general warning alerting travellers to
Kenya to the danger of "indiscriminate attacks" in public places. It made no
mention of Mombasa in the context of terrorism.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Sec retary, defended the advice in a letter to the
Conservative party's Michael Ancram, claiming that "no information was available
to the UK, US or Australia which could have prevented the attacks which took
place in Mombasa".

Mr Ancram told the BBC he wondered whether the British government had the same
warning that prompted Australia to issue its warnings. "If they felt that they
had information sufficient to do that, did we have that information and if we
did why didn't we give the same warnings?"

Whitehall sources insisted that since September 11 intelligence agencies made
sure any relevant information, however general, was exchanged. "(Terrorism) is a
common problem so intelligence is shared," a source said.

Mr Downer said the advice to Australians to avoid Mombasa had been issued as the
result of an intelligence warning.

"Australia had no specific information about the timing, location or method of
the possible attacks," he said.

But Mombasa is likely to have been mentioned in some context on intelligence
assessments, or Australia would not have referred to it.

Officials call Kenya a "soft underbelly" for terrorists. Mombasa, a city with a
large Arab and Muslim population, has strong traditional links with the Middle
East.

It is also the base for western warships patrolling the Horn of Africa.

Last night, almost two days after the blast, the Foreign Office issued a
specific warning to British citizens describing Kenya as one of a number of east
African countries where there might be an increased terrorist threat.

It urged travellers to be vigilant, "particularly in public places frequented by
foreigners. In particular there is a potential threat against western interests
in Nairobi."


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 2002

Kenya terror attack: guardian. co.uk/ kenya on the site today

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 185 words


What the papers say

Osama bin Laden has made himself 'Kenya's enemy number one', says Kenya's Daily
Nation newspaper, but that does not mean that the country will become a 'vassal
of any state that may choose to fight terror with terror'. The Jerusalem Post,
meanwhile, sees both Palestinian terrorism and al-Qaida as part of a single
totalitarian cause - 'upholding dictatorship'. Read our international press
review

Interactive guide

Our click-through graphic shows the sequence of events that led to Thursday's
attacks, and how a far greater loss of life was narrowly avoided as missiles
were fired at an Israeli airliner

Audio report

The Israeli government recognises no distinction between Thursday's attacks in
Kenya and Palestinian violence against Israel and has promised a tough response.
Hear Chris McGreal's audio dispatch from Jerusalem

Full coverage

Latest news and analysis on the Kenya hotel bombing, plus a series of images of
the devastation caused in Kikambala

From the archive

Read the original Guardian reports from the 1998 US embassy bombing in Nairobi


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 2002

Kenya terror attack: Swiss scientists 95% sure that Bin Laden recording was fake

BYLINE: Brian Whitaker

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 352 words


Scientists in Switzerland say they are almost certain that a recent audio tape
attributed to Osama bin Laden is a fake.

The tape, delivered to the Arab satellite television channel al-Jazeera earlier
this month, appeared to provide the first concrete evidence that Bin Laden is
still alive because it mentioned recent attacks on western targets.

American experts initially concluded that the voice on the tape was probably Bin
Laden, though it is unlikely ever to be fully authenticated because of the
recording's poor quality.

The Swiss findings conflict with other research published by the French news
magazine L'Express last week.

In that study, Bernard Gautheron, director of the phonetic testing laboratory at
the Institute of Linguistics and Phonetics in Paris, concluded there was a "very
strong probability" that the al-Jazeera tape was genuine.

But researchers at the Dalle Molle Institute for Perceptual Artificial
Intelligence, in Lausanne, believe the message was recorded by an impostor.

In a study commissioned by France 2 television, researchers built a computer
model of Bin Laden's voice, based on an hour of genuine recordings.

Using voice recognition systems being developed for banking security, they
tested the model against 20 known recordings of Bin Laden. The system correctly
identified his voice in 19 of them.

This meant there was only a 5% risk of error in their conclusion that the latest
tape is a fake, Professor Herve Bourlard, the institute's director, told the
Guardian yesterday. "It's an automatic system but it's very sensitive," he said.
"It picks up things the human ear doesn't pick up."

He agreed that the sound quality of the recent tape was poor but added: "Many of
our 20 (test) recordings were also of poor quality. Some were very good, some
very bad, but our results were all positive except in one case."

Prof Bourlard, a voice recognition expert, is the author or joint author of 150
research papers and two books, and has worked extensively with the International
Computer Science Institute at Berkeley, California.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 2002

Kenya terror attack: EU shelves data-sharing agreement with US

BYLINE: Ian Black in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 427 words


EU attempts to back the US in its "war on terrorism" suffered a further setback
yesterday as a result of concerns over data protection and civil liberties.

Interior ministers meeting in Brussels had been scheduled to finalise an
agreement between Europol, the EU's fledgling law enforcement agency, and
American agencies such as the FBI.

But the item was suddenly taken off the agenda pending consultations among EU
members, with concern focusing on the danger that governments could be sued if
personal information is misused by the US authorities.

"This is a substantive tech nicality," said one diplomat. "Governments really
need to make sure that the legal situation is watertight. Data protection and
civil liberties issues are all interrelated."

Denmark, the current holder of the union's presidency, insisted last night that
agreement was still within reach. Copenhagen has been pushing hard to complete a
raft of anti-terrorist, extradition and legal cooperation commitments made by
the EU shortly after the September 11 attacks and wanted to close the deal.

Last year Washington and Brussels agreed to exchange information on terrorism
and serious crime via Europol, but there was no agreement on exchanging personal
data on suspects. Several governments, which have strong domestic legislation on
data protection, have pointed to concerns about their liability if data is
misused.

Civil liberties concerns have also been raised by France, Germany and Sweden.
Denmark, along with Spain and Britain, stands in the camp of maximum possible
cooperation with the US.

Under the proposed agreement, Europol and its US counterparts would be able to
exchange personal data and analyses, so the Americans would no longer have to
ask individual EU member states for information such as telephone records or
bank details.

Statewatch, the London-based civil liberties watchdog, has criticised the
proposed deal, accusing the EU of not doing enough to safeguard Europeans'
rights.

"EU governments appear to be prepared to forget about their obligations to
provide data protection for people in Europe in order to reach an agreement with
the United States," it said. "This is yet another instance where, in the
post-September 11 climate, agreements with the USA are to be made which are not
limited to combating terrorism but extend to crime in general and over which
there will be little or no accountability."

Denmark insists the US has provided adequate guarantees and that the outstanding
problems are merely technical.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 2002

Kenya terror attack: By raids or stealth, Sharon vows to get killers: The hunt:
Officials wait for Mossad to confirm identity of attackers before launching
cross-border strikes and long-term pursuit

BYLINE: Chris McGreal in Jerusalem

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1069 words


Israel is planning cross-border military strikes as well as a long hunt by
stealth once the Mossad intelligence agency delivers its verdict on who was
responsible for Thursday's attacks.

Intelligence sources say the most likely targets in retaliation for the attacks,
which cost 15 lives but came close to killing hundreds, are in Lebanon and
possibly Somalia and Yemen. But the Israeli government is waiting for
confirmation from Mossad security agents in Kenya that al-Qaida was responsible
for the bombing and missile attack, and to find out whether Hizbullah or any
other group was also involved.

"Our long arm will get those who carried out the terror attacks. No one will be
forgiven," the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, said.

Israeli officials say much of the evidence points to al-Qaida. They note that
the choice of targets, the near simultaneous timing of the attacks, and the
organisation and sophistication of the weapons bear al-Qaida's fingerprints.

The Israelis are already talking of the killings in Mombasa in the same vein as
the attacks in Bali and Tunisia, where al-Qaida first added Jewish targets to
its list in April when it killed 21 people by bombing an ancient synagogue in
Djerba.

In addition, al-Qaida has support in East Africa. After the attacks on the World
Trade Centre, Kenya's intelligence service reported a significant amount of
graffiti in Mombasa praising Osama bin Laden.

Israeli officials privately concede the attack was not typical of Palestinian
groups. But they believe there may be a Hizbullah connection, in part because
the first claim of responsibility from an unknown group, the Army of Palestine,
was broadcast on a Hizbullah television station in Lebanon.

Hizbullah was responsible for bombing a Jewish centre in Buenos Aires that
killed more than 100 people in 1994. Israeli intelligence officials say they
have tracked al-Qaida fighters who escaped from Afghanistan to southern Lebanon
where they live in the Palestinian refugee camp of Ein Hilwe close to the
border.

One Israeli security official, who declined to be named, said that if a link is
made a military response is almost certain. "We are working on the basis that it
is al-Qaida. Everything points to it so the real question is whether anyone else
was involved. We have very strong suspicions about Hizbullah," he said. "If it
is shown that Hizbullah has a role, or that al-Qaida were using the Palestinian
camps in Lebanon, that would certainly govern our response.

"We could not allow that situation to continue. I think the world could expect a
military response just as in Afghanistan. But there will also be a longer term
pursuit of the terrorists, just as the Americans are doing. We will get them
all, even if it's one by one."

Somalia and Yemen are also increasingly talked about by the US and Israel as
havens for al-Qaida. Somalia will be subjected to particular scrutiny because of
its border with Kenya and what the Israelis say is growing evidence that Bin
Laden's supporters have decamped there from Sudan, where they are no longer
welcome.

Israel is keen to be seen as a partner with the US, Britain and others in the
"war on terrorism", not least because it wants to portray Palestinian attacks as
stemming from a broader Arab onslaught on western life rather than the result of
Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza.

"If we find it is al-Qaida, and I have to say I don't see who else it can be
under the circumstances, then that organisation has added Israel to the list of
nations it has declared war against," said an Israeli foreign ministry official.
"We will respond appropriately. We are aware that if al-Qaida is responsible we
must brace our selves for more such attacks but we know we are not alone in
this. Britain, America, Europe - we are all on the same side."

However, the Americans will want to limit Israel's role and are certain to
pressure Mr Sharon to confine any military response to specific targets linked
to the Kenya attacks for fear of undermining US attempts to win Arab support for
an attack on Iraq.

Whether or not there are military strikes, Mr Sharon has vowed that Mossad will
hunt down those behind Thursday's attacks. It is a role the intelligence agency
knows well from its days tracking and assassinating Black September leaders in
the 70s to Mossad's raid on the residence of Yasser Arafat's deputy in Tunis in
1988.

The agency pursued and assassinated virtually all of the Palestinians who killed
11 Israelis during the 1972 Munich Olympics, although it undermined its
credibility when it also killed an Algerian waiter it mistook for the leader of
the hostage takers.

The task of tracking those responsible for Thursday's attack will fall to
Mossad's special military group, the General Staff Reconnaissance Unit, which
was responsible for the assassination raids on Beirut in 1973 and the rescue of
Jewish hostages at Entebbe, Uganda, three years later.

Mossad has long ties with the Kenyans and maintains a permanent office in
Nairobi. Kenya provided intelligence to Mossad about Uganda ahead of the raid on
Entebbe to free passengers from a hijacked Air France flight. A few months
earlier, two Palestinians and two Germans were arrested in Kenya while planning
to shoot down an El Al plane in Nairobi using shoulder-launched missiles. The
Kenyans secretly shipped the four to Israel, where they were put on trial.

In Israel, the first shock at suicide bombers now targeting Israelis abroad was
followed by an unnerving realisation of the scale of the disaster narrowly
missed. Had the missiles fired at the Israeli charter plane as it took off from
Mombasa found their target, the death toll would have run into the hundreds.

Israel's security services are stepping up protection overseas of embassies and
commercial planes. But there are questions about whether additional security
should be provided at tourist sites favoured by Israelis. In Mombasa, armed
security personnel were routinely on hand to escort passengers to and from
aircraft travelling to Israel. But there was no such protection at the Paradise
hotel.

The Israeli government is also concerned that its citizens may be targeted in
other popular destinations, particularly India, Thailand, Turkey and South
America, where there is now a strong Shiite presence influenced by Hizbullah.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     November 30, 2002, Saturday Edition 1

Fear grips paradise after terror attack

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 693 words


   A North-East couple caught up in the Mombasa hotel bombing have told of the
climate of fear hanging over the resort following the terror attack.

David Patten and Helen Thirlwell, from Fenham, in Newcastle, were staying next
to the Paradise Hotel, in the Indian Ocean resort of Mombasa, with Miss
Thirlwell's parents David and Jean.

Mr Patten, 22, an assistant bar manager in Newcastle, saw the bombing from a
fishing boat just off the Kenyan coast, and rushed ashore to check that his
girlfriend and her family were safe.

He rang his parents Matty and Margaret yesterday to say he was well and told of
the fear in the resort in the aftermath of the bombing.

Kenyan police yesterday arrested 12 people in connection with the attack on the
hotel and an attempt to shoot down an Israeli passenger plane leaving nearby
Mombasa airport.

Mr Patten and Miss Thirlwell had been in Mombasa for a fortnight, and were
hoping to return there next year to be married.

Yesterday, Mr Patten, a former pupil at Kenton School, told how he quickly
returned to shore after seeing the bombing.

Speaking on BBC Radio yesterday, he said: "I went to see my girlfriend and give
her a big kiss. I've never been so pleased to see someone in my life.

"For the first few hours after it, it was really, really nerve-wracking. It was
just awful."

The people killed in the attack included 10 Kenyans, three Israelis and the
three suicide bombers who have been linked with Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida
network. There were over 200 Israelis on board the airliner which almost hit by
a missile.

Mombasa is popular with Australians and Britons, and the Australian government
had recently posted warnings of a possible terrorist attack in the resort.

Matty Patten, who lives at Cheeseburn Gardens, in Fenham, was phoned by his son
in the early hours yesterday from Mombasa.

He said: "We got a terrible fright when we heard about it. He's been to Mombasa
before and really loves it, and he was talking about the place before he went
out. When I heard about the bombing it gave us a real fright until he phoned up.

"It was a massive relief and all he wants to do now is get back."

Mrs Patten added: "I was worried sick until he rang. I just wish he was home."

American among 13 held over bombing

A blonde American woman and her Spanish husband were last night among 13 people
being held by police investigating the twin terror attacks in Kenya.

Alicia Kalhammer, in her 20s, from Florida was arrested with her husband as they
"hurriedly" tried to leave their hotel 90 minutes after the suicide car bombing
at an Israeli-owned resort three miles away.

Earlier yesterday, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw insisted the Government had no
intelligence warning of a terrorist threat to Mombasa in the run-up to the
suicide-bombing at a hotel, and missile attack on an Israeli airliner.

The Government has been under pressure to disclose whether it was aware of any
warnings after it emerged that Australia had received intelligence more than two
weeks ago of "possible terrorist attacks against Western interests" in the
Kenyan resort and had issued advice.

The Foreign Office has now amended its travel advice on Kenya to warn British
tourists to be aware of "the threat posed by terrorism in East Africa".

Last night it issued a specific warning to British citizens travelling to the
Kenyan capital Nairobi.

Mr Straw, in a letter to shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram, said: "No
information was available to the UK, US or Australia which could have prevented
the attacks which took place in Mombasa."

Earlier Downing Street confirmed that Britain did routinely share intelligence
with Australia but refused to say whether the information concerning the threat
to Mombasa had been passed on.

Following the Bali bomb attacks in October, Mr Straw was forced to order an
inquiry by the Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee into the way
the intelligence material was handled.

In both Thursday's Mombasa attacks and the Bali bombings, Osama bin Laden's al
Qaida network were regarded as prime suspects. Investigations were continuing
last night.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          November 30, 2002, Saturday

UK HAD NO WARNING OF TERRORIST ATTACK'

BYLINE: Jane Merrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 349 words


FOREIGN Secretary Jack Straw last night insisted the Government had no
intelligence warning of a terrorist threat to Mombasa in the run-up to the
attacks on Israeli tourists.

The Government has been under pressure to disclose whether it was aware of any
warnings after it emerged Australia had received intelligence more than two
weeks ago of "possible terrorist attacks against Western interests" in the
Kenyan resort.

The Foreign Office has now amended its travel advice on Kenya to warn British
tourists to be aware of "the threat posed by terrorism in East Africa".

Mr Straw, in a letter to shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram, said, "No
information was available to the UK, US or Australia which could have prevented
the attacks which took place in Mombasa."

Earlier Downing Street confirmed that Britain did routinely share intelligence
with Australia but refused to say whether the information concerning the threat
to Mombasa had been passed on. "Of course we share information about threats
with the Australians," the Prime Minister's official spokesman said.

He added that the Government would act if it received a warning of a specific
threat.

Following the Bali bomb attacks in October, Mr Straw was forced to order an
inquiry by the Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee into the way
the intelligence material was handled.

Al-Qaeda is regarded as the prime suspect for both Thursday's Mombasa attacks
and the Bali bombings.

The amended Foreign Office travel advice on Kenya now reads, "This (the Mombasa)
incident has highlighted the threat posed by terrorism in East Africa and the
capacity of terrorist groups to carry out attacks.

"Following this and other recent developments, including the terrorist bombing
of a nightclub in Bali on October 12, UK nationals world-wide should be aware of
indiscriminate attacks on civilian targets in public places, including tourist
sites."

However, travel advice, available on the Foreign Office's website,
www.fco.gov.uk, appears to have been amended to all countries worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRIEF-STRICKEN: Miki Adler shows her grief as the bodies of her nephews
Noy and Dvir Anter, 12 and 14, are brought back to Tel Aviv airport

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 30, 2002

Yes, we can win the war on terror;
 The horrific terrorist attacks in Mombasa have reminded the world that the
threat of al-Qaeda remains. The war against terror goes on, but in this
provocative but powerfully argued article, Gwynne Dyer examines the real threat

BYLINE: Gwynne Dyer

SECTION: News :Other :Comment, Pg.8

LENGTH: 852 words


IF we thought about the war on terror in the same way as we think about the war
on crime, we'd realise that we are winning it.

Nobody imagines that a war on crime can end in complete victory, with no more
crimes being committed.

Success is something that has to be measured statistically: how much have you
succeeded in getting the crime rate down? A war on terror has to be treated in
the same way.

I mean no disrespect to the six Kenyans and three Israelis who were killed by
the suicide bombers in Mombasa this week, nor to the 200 people, mostly
Australians, who died in the blast in Bali last month.

If you have the misfortune to be in the wrong place at the wrong time, terrorism
is very real.

But at least as many people have been killed by lightning as by al-Qaeda's
attacks in the past year: the terror rate is steeply down, and that is a
success.

You would never know that, however, if you believed the panic-mongering in the
media and the finger-pointing by the politicians. Indeed, you would probably be
convinced that going to the corner shop for a bottle of milk had become a
distinctly risky activity, and boarding an airliner a virtual death sentence. So
let's try to restore some sense of proportion here.

The media is bound to get this stuff wrong, because the relationship between
terrorism and the media is almost symbiotic.

Without the world's media to elevate the tragedy to global significance, the
events at the Paradise Hotel in Mombasa on Thursday would have no more impact on
public opinion outside Kenya than the next three foreigners and the next half
dozen Kenyans who die as victims of more ordinary crimes.

But the media cannot resist giving this kind of story maximum prominence. It is
designed to attract attention, and it does.

With the story pumped up way beyond its true importance, people and governments
then base their decisions on quite inflated estimates of the risks they really
face. Watch the tourists abandon not just Kenya, but all of Africa.

Watch airlines in the United States edge closer to bankruptcy because potential
passengers, having heard that shoulder-fired missiles missed an Israeli airliner
in Kenya, refuse to board any aircraft anywhere.

If every secondary-school student had to pass a course in the statistics of risk
before graduating, people's behaviour might change eventually, but it would
still take at least a generation.

In the meantime, we will be treated to endless analyses of how it all happened
because Kenya has failed to improve its security measures sufficiently. (Much of
this analysis will come from the country that still hasn't tracked down the
home-grown terrorist who killed five of its citizens with anthrax-infected
letters last year, despite having enough clues to fill an Agatha Christie
novel.)

And sanctimonious politicians and jumped-up bureaucrats will take every
opportunity to lecture us about how we must take the terrorist threat seriously.

Consider, for example, Israel's Foreign Minister Binyamin Netanyahu, who
responded to the Mombasa attacks with the following purple passage: "It means
that terror organisations and the regimes behind them are able to arm themselves
with weapons which can cause mass casualties anywhere and everywhere.

"Today, they're firing missiles at Israeli planes, tomorrow they'll fire
missiles at American planes, British planes, every country's aircraft.

"Therefore, there can be no compromise with terror ... and the regimes behind
them."

This is presumably Netanyahu's attempt to link al-Qaeda to Iraq or other enemies
of Israel.

There is no shred of evidence that ANY regime in the Muslim world backs al
-Qaeda, but if you say a thing often enough some people will believe you. Then
there's the stunning revelation that terrorists have access to shoulder-fired
anti-aircraft missiles - though this will come as no news to any airport
security manager, given that every army bigger that the Papal Guard has hundreds
or thousands of the things. On the black market, they sell for only a few
thousand dollars.

Then we are warned that the terrorists are going to fire these weapons at "every
country's aircraft".

If there's no American plane on the runway, a Swedish or Thai one will allegedly
do just as well. One rather doubts it.

As for the Israeli foreign minister's ringing conclusion, "therefore, there can
be no compromise with terror" - well, who was saying that there should be? The
point is not to over-react and play into al-Qaeda's hands.

It is fairly clear that al-Qaeda lacks the ability to stage an encore to the New
York and Washington attacks of 14 months ago on anything like the same scale. If
it could, why wouldn't it have done so by now?

Like any other terrorist organisation, it retains the ability to make occasional
attacks in relatively out-of-the-way places. It is doing its best, through
timing and propaganda, to persuade its followers and its enemies that it is
still active and dangerous, but it is very unlikely that it will ever kill 3,000
people in a single day again.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                December 1, 2002

WEST FEARS NEW TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: by YVONNE RIDLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 194 words


OSAMA bin Laden's righthand man boasted of the terrorist strike on Israeli
tourists in Kenya days before the atrocity - and has warned of more attacks
against the West.

Sulaiman Abu Ghaith - regarded as the official spokesman for al-Qaida - made the
claims in Arabic on a 15-minute audio tape.

His revelations included warnings that Taliban fighters were preparing to start
another war in Afghanistan, terrorist operations against US and Jewish targets
were about to be launched and suicide bombers were preparing to wreak havoc
across the globe. He also said Osama bin Laden was in "excellent health".

British and US intelligence sources spent last week studying the tape for clues
as to where al-Qaida would launch their next attack. A British intelligence
source said: "We knew East Africa was always going to be in the frame and
suicide operatives have been used there before but the audacity of these strikes
has caught out everyone."

A Middle Eastern intelligence insider warned: "We have heard for some time that
the Taliban is regrouping and there is evidence to support this along the tribal
areas straddling the Pak-Afghan border."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 Express Newspapers

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                December 1, 2002

FINANCIAL EXPRESS - YOUR MONEY; POLICIES FAIL TO GIVE COVER FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: By Helena de Chair

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 396 words


THE vast majority of people have no insurance cover against chemical, biological
or nuclear attacks, it has emerged, because the small print in insurers'
policies specifically excludes this type of terrorism.

Leading insurers say they have always excluded such attacks from life and
general insurance policies. But several have been writing to policyholders to
make the position clear, amid rising concern that Britain could be a target for
Al Qaeda or allied terrorist organisations.

Most policies would pay out in the event of someone being killed or injured
following the type of terrorist outrages suffered in the past, such as a car
bomb.

Insurance would also cover damage to property.

But insurance does not cover newer terrorist threats, such as a chemical attack
on the London Underground, an anthrax scare or a "dirty" bomb, contaminated with
radioactive waste. Insurers claim the effects of such attacks could be too
widespread for them to offer cover.

Britain's biggest insurer, Norwich Union, recently sent out amended summaries of
cover to policyholders for many of its insurance plans.

It warned: "We will not pay for accidental injury caused by or resulting from:

activities of a foreign enemy, ionising radiation or radioactive contamination
from nuclear waste - or the radioactive, toxic, explosive or other dangerous
properties of explosive nuclear equipment."

A spokesman for Norwich Union explained: "A pollution and contamination clause
has always been included in our insurance and would have applied in those
circumstances, whatever the cause of the contamination."

But he said the insurer believed policyholders needed more specific advice in
the light of recent world events such as last September's attacks on New York
and Washington.

"We just had to clarify what is and is not covered but the level of cover has
not changed, people have never had cover in those situations, and it doesn't
exist as far as we are aware, because the level of exposure is potentially too
great for insurance companies and their reinsurers."

The Association of British Insurers said such exclusions were standard across
the industry.

"Neither people nor property are covered for terrorist acts involving nuclear,
chemical or biological weapons, " a spokesman said.

"These types of risk are the domain of the Government."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            December 1, 2002, Sunday

BRITS IN KENYA TERROR ATTACK ALERT PRESSURE... Jack Straw

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 337 words


BRITONS travelling to Kenya were last night warned by the Foreign Office of an
increased terrorist threat and the need for extra vigilance, particularly in the
capital Nairobi.

The warning came as Foreign Secretary Jack Straw insisted the government had no
advance intelligence of possible terrorist activity in Mombasa in the run-up to
Thursday's suicide bombing on a hotel and failed missile attack on an Israeli
airliner.

In updated travel advice following the atrocity, the Foreign Office said: 'This
incident has highlighted the threat posed by terrorism in East Africa and the
capacity of terrorist groups to carry out attacks.

'Following this and other recent developments, including the terrorist bombing
in Bali on October 12, UK nationals worldwide should be aware of indiscriminate
attacks on civilian targets in public places, including tourist sites.'

It went on: 'We believe that Kenya is one of a number of countries in East
Africa wherethere may be an increased terrorist threat. UK nationals in Kenya
should be vigilant.'

It added: 'In particular there is a potential threat against Western interests
in Nairobi.'

Mr Straw was under pressure to disclose whether officials were aware of any
warnings after it emerged that Australia had received intelligence more than two
weeks ago of 'possible terrorist attacks against Western interests' in the
popular Kenyan tourist resort.

In a letter to shadow foreign secretary Michael Ancram, who demanded an urgent
review of how Britain shared intelligence with its allies, Mr Straw wrote: 'No
information was available to the UK, US or Australia which could have prevented
the attacks which took place in Mombasa.' Meanwhile, a Mossad-led team of
Israeli experts was continuing to carry out sweeping searches in Mombasa last
night, after the attacks left 10 Kenyans, three Israelis and three bombers dead.

Security officials were questioning 12 foreigners and trying to trace the
vehicle used in the Israeli charter jet attack.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                December 2, 2002

Girl In Terror Attack

BYLINE: Marc Horne

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 366 words


An attacker pounced on a 10-year-old girl as she was playing in a North-east
town.  The girl was grabbed from behind by the stranger in a Stonehaven lane at
tea-time yesterday.

She screamed, shouted, struggled and eventually broke free from her assailant
who then ran off.

The victim had been playing tig with her friend near their homes when the
incident happened.

The friend, also 10, had gone in one direction while the victim went in another
when they began their game.

The victim was in a lane near Provost Stewart Place when the attack happened.

The friend's mum said: "My daughter was playing tig outside when she heard her
friend shouting and screaming.

"She told my daughter she had been grabbed by a man and she came home straight
away in a state." The mother, who was just metres away from where the attack
happened, added: "It is really frightening that something like this could happen
around here.

"I'm so glad the girl did the right thing by shouting and struggling to get
free.

"All the parents around here are going to be keeping an extra close eye on their
kids now.

"It makes you think about what happened to those two girls who were taken away
in the summer." The victim, a pupil at the town's Arduthie Primary School, gave
a statement to police last night.

Another Provost Stewart Place mum said: "The first thing I knew about it was
when I saw the police cars arriving last night.

"It's horrible to think someone would put a child through something like this."
Grampian Police are warning parents to be extra vigilant.

A force spokesman said: "The girl was understandably shocked about what happened
and she had the good sense to struggle and get away.

"It is important we track down this man and would appeal to the public for help.
We are treating this as a serious complaint." The man was 30-40, about 6ft and
of medium build, with short dark greying hair.

He was wearing a black padded jacket and black trousers.

Grampian Police are keen to trace anyone who was in the area of Provost Stewart
Place or the surrounding streets at around 5pm yesterday.

The attacker was last seen running off towards Brickfield Road.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                December 2, 2002

Teenage Girl'S Terror After Late Night Attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 112 words


A teenager was attacked after a night out in Aberdeen.  The 19-year-old girl was
assaulted while walking in the city's John Street.

Police said the woman was approached by a man who grabbed her.

The victim wasn't injured but was left very distressed.

Police couldn't give a motive for the assault.

A Grampian Police spokesman said officers would be examining CCTV tapes to see
if the attack was caught on camera.

The incident happened at about 2.30am on Saturday.

The attacker was in his mid to late 20s and 6ft tall, with light brown hair in a
centre parting. He was wearing a blue jacket, light blue round-necked T-shirt
and blue jeans.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                December 2, 2002

NE girl, 10, in terror attack

BYLINE: Marc Horne

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 399 words


Two North-east schoolgirls have been attacked by a stranger in the space of nine
days.  The latest incident saw the man pounce on a 10-year-old as she played
near her home in Stonehaven.

In the first, a 13-year-old girl was attacked in the same community.

And today police admitted they failed to tell the public about the first
incident due to a computer bungle.

The force said it was possible the attacks were carried out by the same man.

The latest incident happened at 5pm yesterday when the 10-year-old was playing
tag with her friends.

She was grabbed from behind in a lane off Provost Stewart Place but screamed,
struggled and broke free.

The man fled.

The girl's mum said: "She came running into the house and I immediately knew
something was wrong.

"I couldn't believe it when she told me she had been grabbed by a man." The girl
had been playing with friends, but was on her own during the attack. Her mum
said: "They had been playing tag and all the others were hiding from her.

"The next thing she knew some guy had crept up behind her and grabbed her round
the waist.

"She was completely taken by surprise and didn't hear any footsteps or
anything." The man spun the schoolgirl round and put his hands round her throat.

"She screamed as loud as she could and kicked him on the leg," she said.

"The guy let go and ran off.  But he could easily have dragged her into car and
taken her away." The incident came nine days after a 13-year-old girl was
assaulted in Stonehaven's Barclay Street.

Police refused to give details, but did say the girl was not indecently
assaulted.

The force today admitted that it had failed to alert the public over that
incident.

A press release on the matter was drawn up by police at Stonehaven.

But the force said it was believed to have been lost in the computer system as
it was being sent to Queen Street police HQ to be checked and released. Officers
say the attackers in both incidents had similar descriptions.

The man in the latest incident was 30-40, about 6ft and of medium build, with
short dark greying hair.

Police praised the victim of yesterday's attack.

A force spokesman said: "The girl had the good sense to struggle and get away.

"It is important we track down this man and would appeal to the public for
help." The attacker was last seen running towards Brickfield Road.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                December 2, 2002

Girls In Terror Attacks

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 77 words


Two North-east schoolgirls have been attacked by a stranger in the space of nine
days. The latest incident saw the man pounce on a 10-year-old as she played near
her home in Stonehaven.

In the first, a 13-year-old girl was attacked in the same community.

And today police admitted they failed to tell the public about the first
incident due to a computer bungle.

The force said it was possible the attacks were carried out by the same man.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Lancashire Evening Post

                                December 3, 2002

My terror at hands of vicious attackers

SOURCE: Lancashire Evening Post

LENGTH: 470 words


A man today spoke of his horror after falling victim to a brutal gang attack
close to his home.

The 53-year-old office worker was punched and kicked repeatedly in what police
say was an unprovoked assault in Penwortham, near Preston.

The man, who works in the city centre, said: There doesn't seem to be any
respect these days for people who are just going about their law-abiding
business.

This just seems part and parcel of modern day society. Young kids don't seem to
be able to go out at night without beating somebody up.

The attack happened close to the junction of Marshall's Brow and Hill Road South
at 12.15am on Saturday as the man was making his way home.

He was checking messages on his mobile phone when he became aware of the gang
coming towards him on the opposite side of the road.

One of the youths shouted at him, demanding he hand over his mobile phone.

The man carried on along the road before turning round to find that three of the
youths had split up from the rest of the group.

He said: The three continued shouting at me and I shouted back at them to get
lost.

I didn't want them to think that they were intimidating me.

Moments later, he was hit twice in the head before being punched and kicked on
the floor.

He said: I was frightened with being outnumbered. I understood what was coming
my way and I made the decision to just try to defend myself as best I could.

The offenders were aged about 18 to 21 and two were between 5ft 10in and 5ft
11in with short dark hair.

One was wearing a dark long-sleeved top and dark trousers, while the other was
wearing a light-coloured top.

A third man was said to be slightly taller, of slim build and he was wearing a
light-coloured top.

After his ordeal, the man realised his mobile phone was missing and later found
it further down the street among leaves in the gutter. His glasses were also
smashed in the road.

He said: I went home and woke my wife up and she had to take me to the Royal
Preston Hospital. She was mortified and very shaken up by it.

I wouldn't expect this to happen in Penwortham because it is quite a nice place
to live.

I have never been attacked before and I have never been involved in anything
like this. At 53, I suppose that is pretty lucky.

This just seems symptomatic of modern day youth.

Det Sgt John Cass, from Bamber Bridge CID, said: We will be checking any CCTV
footage in the area and making other inquiries.

Some people may be reluctant at times to come forward because they think other
people may have seen the same things. They may not think that what they have to
say is of value but any information is of value, particularly when it is such a
nasty attack.

Anyone who witnessed the attack should contact Bamber Bridge CID on 01772
415744.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                            December 3, 2002 Tuesday

COUNCILS SHOULD MAKE CONTINGENCY PLANS FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS BY RECRUITING TEAMS
OF TRAINED EMERGENCY VOLUNTEERS

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; Finance and Corporate Services; News

LENGTH: 135  words



HIGHLIGHT: Local authorities should have teams of trained emergency volunteers
to help in the event of a terrorist attack, BBC...


Local authorities should have teams of trained emergency volunteers to help in
the event of a terrorist attack, BBC Radio Four's Today programme heard this
morning.Eric Alley, a former chief emergency planning officer and adviser to the
government on civil defence, said members of the public were keen to help in
emergencies but needed to be trained.'The government are not making any real
efforts to plan exactly for what may happen to us in the event of a terrorist
attack,' he told Today. 'They're not preparing for the type of attack that
happened on September 11th 2001.'It must be admitted that we cannot actually
prevent a terrorist attack ... the terrorist will always get through one way or
another,' he said. 'We've got to look at the problems of dealing with what
happens after they've made the attack.'

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2002 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 3, 2002, Tuesday

COP TOLD ME I HAD DIED IN TWIN TOWERS TERROR ATTACK;
 EXCLUSIVE: INCREDIBLE TALE OF 9/11 'VICTIM'

BYLINE: Jilly Beattie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 581 words

HIGHLIGHT: PLANE RIDDLE: John's passport was found in the carnage of Ground;
Zero after the devastating terrorist outrage at New York's World Trade; Centre;
RELIEF: Officer Boyle's letter


A STUNNED Scot revealed yesterday how he returned from the dead after the
September 11 disaster.

Emergency workers found John Turley's passport under a man's body in the carnage
of Ground Zero.

They even held a memorial service for the languages expert and named him as one
of the 3,161 killed in the New York terror attack.

But John had been sitting at home - 2,500 miles away in Los Angeles - watching
the terrible events unfold on TV.

And yesterday the 41-year-old told how he had unwittingly become caught up in a
chilling mystery.

He said: "I'd no idea my name had been read out in the first of many funeral
services at New York's Cathedral.

"I didn't know that anyone thought I was dead until six weeks later when I
received a message from a New York police officer."

John was left shaken when he returned from work late one night to a find a
bizarre telephone message from the New York Police Department (NYPD).

The caller said his passport had been found in the wreckage of the World Trade
Centre.

He thought it was a sick joke and called back the next morning to say so.

"But I got hold of NYPD officer Jimmy Boyle," said John. "He had been trying to
track me down for weeks.

"He was very emotional when he realised who I was.

"And he said, 'Thank God you're alive, I've been trying to find you for the
longest time. We had a funeral service for you but I had a feeling you were
alive - this is such good news'."

It soon emerged an incredible chain of events - starting on August 27 - had
sucked John into the Twin Towers tragedy.

John, whose family stay in Motherwell, Lanarkshire, had just applied for a new
passport.

He posted his expired papers to US officials in New Hampshire to be exchanged
for new ones.

Just two weeks later al-Qaeda terrorists flew two jet liners into the World
Trade Centre - and on board one was a mailbag containing John's new passport.

He said: "I forgot about my passport but on November 20 I got the call from
Jimmy Boyle saying it had been found.

"It had been in a mailbag on the Boston to Los Angeles flight that was hijacked
and flown into the Twin Towers.

"Jimmy found it the next day under a torso as he scrambled through the dense
dust and dirt of the wrecked building.

"Somehow the passport had survived intact."

John was declared dead, despite the fact his family was never tracked down. His
dad John Snr, at home in Motherwell, knew nothing of the drama.

But, less than a week later, Officer Boyle reopened the case, convinced the body
and passport did not match. John said: "Jimmy had nothing to go on. He just had
a hunch.

"The passport had been issued on September 6, just five days before the Twin
Towers attack.

"And he didn't think there had been enough time to get the passport to the
owner."

It had been put on American Airlines Flight 11, one of two planes hijacked after
taking off from Logan Airport, Boston.

His passport was later returned by Officer Boyle along with a touching letter.

And John said: "I still have my passport but I want it preserved as a piece of
history to help mark September 11 and the story behind its discovery.

He added: "Officer Jimmy Boyle made hundreds of phone calls in the weeks after
September 11. He said mine was the only one which delivered good news.

"We have a bond now that cannot be broken.

"He has told me that hearing my voice and knowing I was alive gave him strength
to carry on."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          December 4, 2002, Wednesday

TERROR ATTACKS DOGS HUNTED

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 127 words


POLICE today issued descriptions of two dogs responsible for vicious attacks on
a 56-year-old woman and a teenage girl.

The attacks happened on Saturday, November 23, in the Lozells area. The first
was at 10.30am in a playground in Villa Street when widow Patricia Brown's
Lurcher was mauled by two Staffordshire Bull Terriers.

When she went to help Mrs Brown was attacked, having her ear bitten off and arm
broken in four places. Her dog later died. The second happened ten minutes later
nearby when the youngster, who has not been named, was bitten on the arm and
hand.

The dogs were a dark brown or grey male and a tan-coloured female, which may
have been pregnant.

Anyone with information call Thornhill Road police on 0845 113 5000.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          December 4, 2002, Wednesday

ON TROUBLED WATERS;
 IN THE LAST OF A TWO-PART SERIES ON BOARD HMS CARDIFF, TOM WHITEHEAD LOOKS AT
THE THREAT OF TERRORIST ATTACKS ON THE WORLD'S EFFORT TO CURB OIL SMUGGLERS.

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 641 words


THE Gulf War remains in the memory of many people who still remember the images
of British troops in the Middle East and hundreds of burning oil wells.

Today, 12 years later, the battle to protect the world's oil resources
continues, with at least 400 British military personnel on duty in the Middle
East's territorial waters as part of a UN operation to halt the oil smuggling
trade.

Their role, with the Multinational Interception Force (MIF), is to patrol the
hundreds of miles of water to police UN-approved trade with Iraq and stop the
multi-million-pound smuggling trade that has been rife since sanctions were
imposed in 1990. And their task is a tough one - smuggling is not about
protesting against the sanctions or making a political statement.

Just 10,000 tonnes of oil can earn a smuggler $ 1m dollars so they are prepared
to go to any lengths to protect their valuable cargo, including using ships
unsuitable for carrying oil and even sealing themselves into the hull of their
boats to prevent capture by the Royal Marine soldiers who board and search
nearly every vessel.

But apart from the danger of tackling unscrupulous smugglers, who are often
linked to influential businessmen in the United Arab Emirates, the troops aboard
HMS Cardiff and other warships in The Gulf face the ever-increasing threat of
terrorist attack. With Israelis being targeted by terrorists in Kenya and UN
weapons inspectors back in Iraq for the first time in four years, the Middle
East is again at the top of the international agenda.

As a result, British and US warships in the Gulf have stepped up security amid
fears they could be targeted by al Qaeda.

The international forces believe any one of the hundreds of small dhows, which
ply the shipping lanes, could be packed with explosives by the terror network
and turned on them. Extra troops now operate the lookout posts, hi-tech radar
and infra-red surveillance equipment keep a constant watch. Royal Marines on
board HMS Cardiff, who conduct searches of suspect smuggling boats, have also
been kitted out with arms and equipment needed to become a more "forward
offensive unit". A Royal Navy source said: "If the tension were to escalate
dramatically, then all these ships, considering where they are, could be a
target.

"All the ships there are operating reactive defence watches. They are ready to
react to any increasing threat to them."

But for most of the troops on HMS Cardiff, it is work as normal, in spite of the
growing political pressure.

Craig Maskery, 22, from Sheffield, an air engineer mechanic, said: "Of course it
is there at the back of your mind, but we still have a job to do."

Leading chef Chris Andrews, 21, from Cardiff, is one of those responsible for
the ship's catering, as well as for training in nuclear, biological and chemical
protection.

"As you can imagine, the lads will constantly wind you up, making comparisons
between the two," he said.

"It's just part of the life here."

Chris has been on the ship for eight months and in the Navy for five years. In
the mornings he cooks 350 sausages and 600 eggs and, along with a galley crew of
11, provides four meals a day.

But he says the hardest part of the job was missing home. "I miss the family and
girlfriend like anyone else. Catering staff tend to move from ship to ship so
you do not always get a lot of shore time." For navigating officer Lieutenant
Trish Kohn, being one of only two women among 250 men is not an issue when it
comes to work. "Women do the job just as well as men," she said.

While on board, Lieutenant Kohn, 27, from Glasgow, uses her free time to train
for a trek to Mount Everest next April.

"Everyone on board finds their own way to relax," she said. "I don't sleep that
much and prefer to keep the training up for next year."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KEEPING THE PEACE Royal Marine Commandos from HMS Cardiff (in the
background) carry out a demonstration boarding exercise in the Arabian; Gulf,
top. Above and left, left to right, Operator Maintainer Norrie,; Marine Engineer
Smith and Marine Engineer English, take a sample of oil.

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           December 5, 2002, Thursday

LETTER: IRAQ ATTACK WOULD TRIGGER TERRORISM

BYLINE: Elizabeth Way

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 94 words


Sir, - We are constantly warned that terrorist attacks on this country are
imminent. While no international intelligence service has linked terrorism to
Iraq, it is implied in some parts of the media that these threats necessitate an
attack on Iraq.

Is it not probable that such an attack would trigger terrorist activities in
this country?

We will be still more at risk from such attacks if we agree tothe US using our
bases for their missile defence programme.

ELIZABETH WAY Joint Secretary Moseley and District United Nations Association.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                           December 5, 2002 Thursday

Knife thug in terror attack

BYLINE: TOM BRADSHAW

LENGTH: 349 words


BURTON and South Derbyshire has suffered a new crimewave which saw OAPs and
teenagers fall prey to muggers and conmen.

In one incident yesterday a knife-wielding thug threatened a 19-year-old on the
steps of Burton Library in a terrifying afternoon attack. In a second attack an
arthritis-sufferer was mugged outside a Winshill post office seconds after
collecting her family allowance. Meanwhile, a "despicable" bogus gas official
struck at the homes of four elderly residents in South Derbyshire and one in
Burton, stealing a total of £90. Police chiefs investigating the crime blitz
today appealed for anyone with information to come forward.

The first incident happened soon after 9am when a 55-year-old woman was pushed
to the ground in a Burton street and robbed of £119.35. The woman was attacked
outside the post office in Vancouver Drive, Winshill, after she had collected
her family allowance and income support. She was left nursing an injured knee
following the vicious robbery. Her knee was already weak because of arthritis.
The attack outside Burton Library at 3pm saw a gang of three teenagers of Asian
appearance follow and taunt a 19-year-old. The victim warned the youths that
they were being watched by a group of onlookers and CCTV, at which point one of
his attackers pulled out a knife. The 19-year-old walked away and the thugs
fled. Police today said the youth who brandished the knife was a 14-year-old
with "bad teeth, an oblong face, and a speech impediment". OAPs in Church
Gresley, Woodville, Newhall and Burton were all targeted yesterday by
distraction burglars. Police believe all the incidents were carried out by the
same man. Detective Inspector John Cairns at Swadlincote Police Station said:
"My message is that these people are targeting the most vulnerable members of
our community - elderly persons - which I am sure the community, just as we do
here at the police station, find to be a despicable crime." Any witnesses or
anyone with information about any of the crimes is urged to call Burton police
on 01283 565011 or Derbyshire Police on 01332 290100.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2002 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               December 05, 2002

Kenyan police arrest 11th man over Mombasa terrorist attack;

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 87 words


KENYAN police announced the arrest yesterday of an 11th man for questioning over
the terrorist bombing in Mombasa.

"He is alleging to have sold a car to two young people of Arab origin, " said
senior police officer William Langat.

Mr Langat said that the man, who was detained on Tuesday, claimed to have sold
the car about two weeks ago.

"He looks like like a Kenyan, but we are checking. He could also be a Somali."

Police are already holding six Pakistanis and four Somali men for questioning.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                December 6, 2002

Fire service fears over terror attack

BYLINE: Elaine Galloway

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 100 words


LONDON'S fire service would struggle to cope with a major terrorist attack
because of a severe shortage of equipment, according to an official report.

A lack of replacement emergency vehicles, lifting equipment and thermal imaging
technology would restrict the rescue attempts of firefighters, putting lives at
risk, it was claimed. A shortage of protective clothing, such as gas-tight
suits, would put firefighters at risk and hinder any reaction to an attack.

The leaked document was presented to the London Fire Authority by the deputy
commissioner of the London Fire Brigade.


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2002 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               St Helens Guardian

                                December 7, 2002

Deaf girl in terror attack

SOURCE: St Helens Guardian

LENGTH: 279 words


A PARTIALLY deaf schoolgirl was attacked by a sinister thug who jumped out from
bushes and tried to rob her.

Vicky Kelly, aged 14, was making her way down Garton's Lane in Clock Face at
around 4.30pm on Monday when the assailant struck.

Vicky's father, Tony Kelly, believes the man must have been lurking in the
bushes waiting for a victim to walk past.

The attacker, who is described as around 5ft 6in, grabbed the terrified
youngster and put his hand around her mouth to stop her screaming.

He then began rifling through the girl's coat pockets as she struggled to break
free from his grasp.

During the scuffle Vicky, who is deaf in one ear and wears a hearing aid, kicked
her attacker in the shin, forcing him to let go and giving her vital seconds to
escape.

Dad Tony says his daughter has been left traumatised, but unhurt, by what he
described as a sickening attack.

He said: This man jumped out of the bushes and put his hand round her mouth. He
then went through her pockets - it was a horrendous and frightening experience.

She is distraught. All she's done since is walk around like she doesn't know
what to do next and we have had to give her something to help her sleep.

Vicky, who attends Sutton High School, was going to meet her 10-year-old brother
from a schoolfriend's house when the attack occurred.

Tony added: She said this man smelt like a homeless person. He just went through
her pockets, she didn't give him the chance to do anything else.

We just want to warn the people of Clock Face that this person is out there and
say that they should take extra care when they are walking alone.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                December 8, 2002

Threat grows of cyber attack by terrorists groups

BYLINE: Robin McKie, Science Editor

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 438 words


FEARS are mounting among computer experts that Britain may be becoming
increasingly vulnerable to attack by hackers.

They believe that both civil and military institutions, as well as major
companies, are in danger of a devastating 'cyber attack' - possibly as a prelude
to a terrorist assault on the country, or simply as a challenge for expert young
computer users.

Among the trends recently noted by computer security officials have been an
illegal trade in ageing Cray super-computers, which are ideal for cracking
complex encrypted passwords used to guard major installations and companies, and
a steady rise in attempts to recruit the services of young computer researchers,
particularly from eastern Europe, by a variety of shadowy organisations,
including terrorists.

There are also fears over the country's lack of readiness for possible attacks.
'The trouble is that we have got our priorities very badly mixed up,' said Paran
Chandrasekaran, head of the security consultancy Indicii Salus.

'Just take the recent example of Cherie Blair. I am sure she is very carefully
looked after by security guards, but her cyber security is abysmal.'

Evidence recently collected by experts includes reports that:

* Government institutions are successfully attacked by hackers an average of 84
times a week.

* A total of 44 per cent of UK businesses have suffered a malicious electronic
security incident in the past year. This figure is almost double the 24 per cent
that reported breaches in 2000.

* More than 200 UK companies are now targeted by hackers every day.

* Eight out of 10 office workers open and read other people's emails without
permission.

'It is incredibly easy to do a search on the internet for a program that you can
then download and use to read emails round your office,' said Dr Magnus
Ranstorp, of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, at St
Andrews University.

'Then you get recruited by a group or business outfit and used to infiltrate an
office with fake credentials. Someone starts working as a temp in one
department. After a few weeks, he or she could have gone through half the secure
documents in the whole building.'

To guard against such attacks, many key installations and government departments
change passwords with the departure of any worker for a new job. However, most
security officials now doubt that such efforts go anywhere near to protecting
institutions against committed cyber attacks.

'It's like standing in a field with your trousers round your ankles,' said one.
'You are still terribly exposed.'


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           December 08, 2002, Sunday

5,000 body bags ordered in case of terrorist chemical attack Government orders
120,000 decontamination suits to be ready for distribution 'in minutes'

BYLINE: BY MARTIN BENTHAM Social Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 811 words

THE GOVERNMENT is buying more than 120,000 decontamination suits to protect
people from a terrorist chemical or biological attack on potential targets
across Britain such as Trafalgar Square.

Thousands of decontamination showers, shelters, stretchers and other equipment
are also being ordered - as well as 5,000 body bags.

The equipment, which is intended to be available by the middle of next year at
the latest, will be stored at 16 locations, ready to be distributed within
minutes of a terrorist attack.

The orders, which are due to be placed before Christmas, have been prompted by
concern that Britain is seriously under-prepared to cope with the consequences
of a chemical or biological assault. A recent report by the National Audit
Office concluded that the National Health Service's capacity to deal with a
major attack was "worryingly low".

The Home Office gave warning last month that Islamic fundamentalists might use
radioactive "dirty" bombs or poison gas to cause large numbers of casualties in
British cities. This alert was later retracted because of fears that it would
cause public panic.

Information on new Government contracts, which has been obtained by The Sunday
Telegraph, reveals the full extent of the threat that ministers believe the
country is facing.

One batch of contracts, which is about to be awarded, is for 120,000
pre-decontamination suits, to be used immediately after a chemical or biological
attack. The contracts will also provide 100,000 post-decontamination suits to be
worn by people after their initial treatment. Industry officials say the 20,000
difference reflects the number of deaths likely to occur.

Philip Ward, the managing director of Ferno UK, the country's leading
manufacturer of emergency and rescue equipment, said that his company was among
those bidding for the contracts, which were for "huge" quantities that were
"getting bigger by the day".

"The first big contract is for in excess of pounds 50 million worth of gear. The
list of products is extremely long, from suits to showers to shelters, even down
to specialised vehicles to take mass decontamination equipment to the site of
the disaster," he said.

"A second contract is for equipment, stretchers and evacuation chairs but,
again, it's significant that, for the first time on any government tender, all
equipment must be capable of being totally decontaminated.

"Our understanding from the information received from tenders is that they have
identified 16 UK locations, which will, effectively, be warehouses, where all of
this equipment will be stored and allocated."

Mr Ward said one scenario that the Government had asked his company and others
to plan for was a terrorist attack on Trafalgar Square.

"One of the interesting things was what they refer to as pre-decontamination and
post-decontamination. If terrorists get a crop-sprayer and spray Trafalgar
Square and there are 5,000 people covered in some obnoxious substance, how do
you de-contaminate 5,000 people in Trafalgar Square? That's what we are working
on."

The treatment, said Mr Ward, would begin with each victim stripping and putting
on a pre-decontamination suit. Their clothes would be placed in a separate bag
for incineration.

Swabs would then be provided for the victims to clean out orifices which could
contain traces of the chemical, before each person passed through a shower - set
up in shelters at the site of the attack - to wash off the substance. Finally,
post-decontamination suits would be given to reclothe the victims.

Mr Ward said that other possible targets discussed by the Government included
the Houses of Parliament and Canary Wharf in London, as well as the centres of
big cities.

The deadline for delivering orders had originally been next July, but this had
already been brought forward to June and appeared likely to move forward even
further. "They are talking about very large numbers and very short time spans,"
said Mr Ward.

Other equipment required by the Government includes 50,000 decontamination
shelters, 2,000 stretchers, 2,000 evacuation chairs and 5,000 body bags.

A spokesman for the Deputy Prime Minister's office, which is co-ordinating the
purchases, refused to comment on any specific threats or to confirm the
quantities of equipment ordered.

He said, however, that pounds 56 million had been allocated this year to prepare
for potentially catastrophic terrorist incidents. Some of the money would buy
decontamination equipment, which would be held by the fire service.

"We have evaluated our capacity to respond to a catastrophic incident and
developed a strategy to improve our resilience," said the spokesman. "A
procurement of mass decontamination equipment is under way.

"We wouldn't comment on specific tenders or anything like that, but we are
aiming to move forward as quickly as possible."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2002 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                December 9, 2002

SURVIVAL PACK SENT TO ALL HOMES; BRITAIN PUT ON TERROR ATTACK ALERT

BYLINE: ByAlison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 616 words


BRITAIN is buying body bags and overhauling plans to deal with an Al Qaeda mass
terrorist attack, it was revealed yesterday.

The move comes amid chilling new claims that Osama Bin Laden's network still
poses a serious threat to the West.

It means that every householder could now get leaflets explaining how to survive
a catastrophe.

The revelation came as a leading Al Qaeda spokesman threatened faster, harder
strikes against America's "Jewish Crusader" coalition.

Sulaiman Abu Ghaith reportedly confirmed claims that Al Qaeda was behind the
recent attacks in Kenya which left 16 people dead, including Israeli tourists,
the intended target. And in the statement attributed to him, which was posted
yesterday on a militant website, he declared - using a term common among Islamic
militants for what they see as a US-Israeli alliance: "The JewishCrusader
coalition will not be safe anywhere from the fighters' attacks.

"We will hit the most vital centres and we will strike against its strategic
operations with all possible means."

The statement added: "We will chase the enemy with terrifying weapons. We have
to widen our fighting fronts and conduct more concentrated and faster
operations. . . so (the enemy) feels unsafe and unstable on land, air and sea."

Abu Ghaith is one of the leading Al Qaeda members hunted by America and its
allies since the coalition began bombing Afghanistan more than a year ago in
response to the September 11 attacks.

The Government has recently stepped up its campaign of warnings to the public
that they could come under attack. Yesterday, after repeated criticisms from
experts and the Opposition that it was not doing enough, more details emerged of
how it is preparing.

The Government has issued tenders for millions of pounds worth of equipment for
use in case of a chemical or biological attack.

It is buying 5,000 body bags, more than 120,000 decontamination suits to be used
immediately after an attack, 100,000 suits to be worn after initial treatment,
the difference in numbers said by experts to reflect likely deaths, and
thousands of special showers, shelters and stretchers.

The orders are due to be placed before Christmas and companies were told to
consider scenarios such as a terrorist attack on Trafalgar Square as well as on
Parliament, Canary Wharf and other big city centres.

Philip Ward, managing director of emergency equipment manufacturer Ferno UK,
told a Sunday newspaper his company was among those bidding for the contracts.

He said the first was for more than GBP 50million worth of equipment, including
suits, showers, shelters and specialised vehicles. A second contract was for
equipment including stretchers.

The deadline for delivering orders had been brought forward from July to June
and was widely expected to be brought forward again.

A spokesman for Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott's office, which is
coordinating the purchases, refused to comment on specific threats or orders of
equipment. Meanwhile, it was confirmed that the Government plans a wholesale
shake-up of the Cold War-era emergency planning system. Ministers will issue
draft legislation in the spring to create a national plan capable of dealing
with catastrophic incidents.

Local Government Minister Nick Raynsford, who is in charge of planning for
London, said: "We want people to know that we are ready for any eventuality
without alarming the public."

After consultation on the draft, ministers will seek to get the Bill made law.

At the weekend, health ministers from around the world agreed an action plan to
prepare for any deliberate release of the smallpox virus by terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                December 9, 2002

LEADER COLUMN; TELL US THE TRUTH ABOUT RISK OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 218 words


A SIMPLE request to those fighting the war against terror: will someone please
tell us just what is going on?

Last week it was smallpox alerts, the week before that it was a warning about
poison gas on the Underground, and now we're told that every family in Britain
is to get a terror survival plan.

Oh really? Well, it was nice of someone to tell us this - except that no one in
Government said any such thing. Instead, the information, just as in the prior
two cases, came out through a combination of leaks, off-the-record briefings and
newspaper reports. We actually have no idea whether any or all of the recent
warnings bear any weight whatsoever, because no one in office has actually come
out and told us so.

Perhaps this constant dripping of leaks is a governmental ploy designed to
emphasise the threat from Iraq and thus toughen us up for a war, but this last
one looks more likely to induce a wave of panic than anything else. And so, yet
again, we call upon the Government to give us the information we have every
right to know.

Is the threat of a terrorist attack so great that every person in the country
should go on red alert? Or are these merely scare stories? If the Government
wants our support in a forthcoming war, the very least it could do is tell us
the truth.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 9, 2002

Overhaul of civil defence laws aims to help us survive terror attack

BYLINE: Murray Ritchie

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 287 words


THE Scottish Parliament is to review laws governing civil defence measures
against terrorism, it was confirmed yesterday after Westminster moved to tighten
existing regulations.

Tougher protective measures aimed at families in their homes will involve
changing peacetime laws and are meant to make survival more likely in the event
of biological, nuclear or chemical attacks.

The new laws will amount, in effect, to an overhaul of emergency procedures.
Civil de-fence laws date back to the Cold War and are not thought to be equipped
to deal with the threat offered by terrorists groups such as al Qaeda.

The change will be overseen by local authorities. With local government devolved
to Holyrood, this means councils in Scotland making similar if not necessarily
identical changes, according to an executive spokeswoman. MSPs will consider
existing legislation and make recommendations ac-cordingly, she said.

Councils will have to detail their contingency plans for coping with anything
from a chemical or biological attack to a massive bomb. "It will be a fairly
substantial piece of legislation coming out next year," a UK government
spokesman said.

Tony Blair, the prime minister, warned last month the government was receiving
intelligence about threats to the nation almost daily. Security experts say
Britain could be a target because of its support for US action against al Qaeda.

Alistair Darling, transport secretary, refused to be drawn on details but said
higher security at airports and rail stations was inevitable. "We need to be
vigilant and we need to be alert," he said on Sky Television, adding he had no
plans for armed guards on passenger ships, as had been suggested.

LOAD-DATE: December 09, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       December 9, 2002, Monday Edition 1

Britian prepares for terror attacks

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 45

LENGTH: 219 words


   A shake-up of the Cold War-era emergency planning system is being mapped out
to help Britain cope with the new threats of global terrorism after September
11.

A Bill will be put before Parliament in the New Year to create a system capable
of dealing with catastrophic incidents on the scale of the suicide plane attacks
on New York and Washington.

The Government has been consulting local authorities which have responsibility
for emergency planning across the country.

Its plans demonstrate quite starkly how sure the Government is that Britain is a
potential target for supporters of Osama bin Laden and his Islamist al-Qaida
network.

Current plans for major emergencies are based on legislation dating back to 1948
and 1986, during the Cold War period, and are now considered to be outdated, in
the light of changed threats.

Local Government Minister Nick Raynsford said: "We want people to know we're
ready for any eventuality without alarming the public."

A Cabinet Office spokesman said: "Events on September 11 and afterwards have
shown the need to plan for these sorts of incidents."

The spokesman said it was too early to confirm speculation that every household
in the country would be provided with a leaflet advising them how to survive
biological, nuclear or chemical attacks.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               December 10, 2002

When disaster strikes...;
 Agenda - Just over a year ago the world changed forever - the threat of a
terrorist attack by al-Qa'eda became a reality across Britain. There are people
out there planning to keep us safe if such an emergency occurred. But do they
have the resources needed to ensure our safety? Samantha Walker-Sowden finds out

BYLINE: Samantha Walker-Sowden

SECTION: News :999 :Others, Pg.14

LENGTH: 984 words


THERE was a time when families were advised to shelter under a kitchen table in
the event of a nuclear fall-out.

And while this advice may have sheltered a family from falling masonry, it
wouldn't have protected them from the effects of a nuclear bomb.

The rather do-it-yourself safety advice dates from an age when the threat of an
attack during the Cold War loomed large.

Now, in light of threats from terrorist group al-Qa'eda, things are changing and
new legislation is being drawn up look at how to keep the nation safe.

Current plans for dealing with major emergencies are based on legislation dating
back to between 1948 and 1986 - the Cold War period.

A draft Bill to overhaul the current emergency planning system is set to be
published in the spring and should go through Parliament the following year.

The aim of the Bill will be to clarify what different agencies should do in the
event of a disaster to ensure maximum safety and efficiency.

In Bath, emergency planning officers deal with civil emergencies.

They can be called upon to deal with disasters ranging from footand-mouth
outbreaks, chemical spills or even football club disasters, such as
Hillsborough.

They can also be called upon to deal with the aftermath of a chemical or
biological terrorist attack, should the worst ever happen.

Despite having such an important job, their budget is just 1 per head - and that
is before any deductions for staff wages.

Bath MP Don Foster said the amount was simply not enough in light of recent
terrorist threats.

The Government provides a grant of 19m to be shared out among all local
authorities in England and Wales.

Bath and North East Somerset Council gets just under 90,000 - which works out at
50p a head.

This is then matched by the council, leaving emergency planners with 1 per
person to spend on any disasters - both natural and man-made.

Mr Foster said the amount meant the country was illprepared for such an
emergency.

"Every country has taken this much more seriously, " he said.

"We are pretty good at coping in this country but that doesn't justify us in
being underprepared, "We have recently had a report out that says the ambulance
service is not prepared for a chemical or biological attack - that is not their
fault, it is the amount of funding they have been given.

"We all know that we currently have the problem of the firefighters' strike and
we all know that the police are inadequately resourced for the work that they
do.

"And our Armed Forces are having to cope with the fire strike and the
possibility of a war with Iraq."

Mr Foster also criticised Department of Transport advice in the event of a
chemical or biological attack. The advice simple states the public should try to
decontaminate themselves using children's toys and household equipment.

"In America and in other countries they have already introduced mobile
decontamination units, but we have been advised to use children's paddling
pools, car sponges and bleach. It is an absolute disgrace, " he said.

Gordon Hector is emergency manager for B&NES Council.

He said the council's role in dealing with disasters had grown over the years.

"What happens at the moment, and has done for a number of years, is that the
Government part-funds or grant funds emergency planning in local authorities.

"Historically it comes on the back of civil defence, after the Second World War.

The Government decided to fund civil defence against the biggest threat then
which was from Russian bombers.

"Then quickly things like Aberfan happened and it was seen that local
authorities had a role - they always had this role but it was seen that
something more than just wartime planning was needed and we needed to get into
civil emergencies.

"The more technology we get, the bigger the disasters seem to be - like train
and plane crashes, and the Marchioness disaster, the Sea Empress oil spillage
and tragedies such as Dunblane - the whole spectrum."

He is hopeful the council's increased role outlined in the expected Civil
Contingencies Bill will mean more cash for his department.

But the staff have been waiting for the new legislation for five years.

Mr Hector continued: "As soon as one of those incidents has happened the
community looks to the local authority to sort it out.

"While we have always had a role, that role has increased.

"What happened a few years ago was that the Government realised that funding for
civil emergencies was more important than the threat of that from foreign
powers.

"That was five years ago and we are still waiting for the Bill.

"We are promised that it will happen as soon as time can allow in Parliament but
there has been time in Parliament when they have used it for other things."

But Don Foster said the budget, far from being increased, was actually being cut
in real terms.

New figures released by the Cabinet Office show that B&NES Council will receive
90,011 - that is an increase of just 386.

Mr Foster said when inflation was taken into account, there was actually a
decrease.

"Despite growing public concern over plans to prepare for terrorist attacks,
already inadequate Government funding for the vital work of local authority
planning teams is to be cut next year (after inflation is taken into account).

"These cuts come at a time with local emergency services being asked to do more
and more "And if new Government plans to make local authorities the lead bodies
in any major emergency are enacted, then the workload will grow even more."

Current Government advice is for people to "go in, stay in, tune in" in the
event of a chemical or biological attack.

This advice is already given after chemical spillages and helps prevent injuries
and Mr Hector said it was important to educate people to keep themselves safe.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               December 10, 2002

Terror attacks cash

SECTION: News :999 :People, Pg.2

LENGTH: 128 words


EMERGENCY workers in Bath are to receive less than 400 extra next year to help
plan for any terrorist attacks.

The Government makes an annual Civil Defence Grant to local authorities so they
can plan for civil emergencies - including those from chemical and biological
weapons.

Bath and North East Somerset Council currently receives 89,625 - or 50p per
person - to spend on emergency planning.

This is to cover incidents such as terrorist attacks, floods and even foot-and
-mouth disease.

But next year's grant will increase by just 386 to 90,011.

Bath's MP Don Foster, who has spoken in the House of Commons asking for the
budget to be increased, said next year's award was too low - especially in light
of proposed new responsibilities.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               December 10, 2002

Do what you are told: Stay in, tune in;
 Cold War's over, so here's new advice in event of terror attack

BYLINE: ROB MERRICK Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.13

LENGTH: 450 words


EVERY household in the area will receive a leaflet warning people to "go in,
stay in, tune in" if terrorists were ever to launch an attack.

New laws will also force local authorities to draw up fresh emergency procedures
to cope with new risks following the September 11 atrocities last year.

These could include anthrax scares, such as the one that forced the evacuation
of a Royal Mail office in Bristol shortly after the attacks in the United
States.

A suspicious package, thought to contain a white powder, was discovered at the
Easton Business Park in October 2001 and removed for analysis.

It turned out to be a hoax.

But firefighters called to the Bristol One delivery office had to walk through
decontamination showers set up in a tent outside the depot.

The government is concerned that current civil defence advice dates back to 1948
and was only revised in 1986 - warning people of nowoutdated Cold War threats.

Households will now be advised to have a reserve supply of food and water and
told how to get hold of evacuation plans in the event of radiation or gas
poisoning.

And emergency powers will allow "community assistance zones" to be set up, to
move people faster in the event of an emergency.

The legislation - to be passed within 18 months - will make it the
responsibility of each local authority to draw up a plan for mass evacuation.

It is expected to include the delivery of leaflets to Britain's 24 million
homes, setting out what to do following an attack by a group such as al -Qa'eda.

Nick Raynsford, the local government minister, said:

"We want people to know we are ready for any eventuality, without alarming the
public."

It is widely accepted that governments have let the issue of civil defence slide
ever since the Cold War ended in 1989.

Bristol City Council will receive only 98,486 next year for emergency planning,
an increase of just 386 - or 0.39 per cent - on 2002/3.

However, a Cabinet Office spokesman insisted the government took the terrorist
threat "very seriously" and was consulting with local authorities.

He said: "It will be a fairly substantial piece of legislation, coming out next
year and going through Parliament as soon as time permits.

"Events on September 11 and afterwards have shown the need to plan for these
sorts of catastrophic incidents."

The updated plans could include teaching primary school children what to do in
the event of a chemical, biological or nuclear attack.

A report, from a national steering committee on warning the public, concluded
that seven to 11-year-olds were best at "developing safety lessons for life."

r.merrick@central-press.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                               December 10, 2002

YOUR SHOUT - ESTHER TIPPELL, 26, A WARD SISTER FROM GLASGOW, GIVES HER VIEWS ON
THE WEEK'S NEWS.; WE HAVE TO FACE UP TO TERROR ATTACK RISKS

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 269 words


COULD Britain cope with a major terror attack?

I DON'T think we could cope at the moment. The public do not have enough
information to know what to do.

If there was a chemical attack tomorrow it would be a disaster.

The government needs to look at the whole issue harder. We know there is a real
threat out there. We all saw what happened last year in the US.

Being a mum, it does scare me, but we have to face up to it now.

WAS Saddam's apology to Kuwait just hot air?

I DON'T trust Saddam and apologising to Kuwait is just another way of buying
time.

He is doing anything he can to stop the US going in and attacking him. He is
very clever and I think he is capable of anything.

The inspectors are not getting anywhere because he has had too much time to
prepare for them.

WILL this sleaze damage the Government for good?

PEOPLE will remember this scandal when the next election comes. I voted Labour
at the last elections but definitely won't be doing that again next time.

I feel like I can't trust the Blairs now. This will damage Labour for good.

WILL it be third time lucky for J-Lo?

IWISH her all the best this time round. I would give it two years at most.

She will make sure it lasts a bit longer than her last marriage, but I think it
will fail after that.

It's a shame, but everyone will be just waiting for them to split up.

ARE the Cheeky Girls a one-hit wonder?

YES their song is rubbish. There is no talent involved in this song.

They are just showing off their bums.

It's a novelty record and they usually do well around Christmas.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 Express Newspapers

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 10, 2002, Wednesday

PARLIAMENT AND POLITICS: TERRORISM: TORY LEADER ATTACKS BBC COVERAGE OF MIDDLE
EAST

BYLINE: Ben Russell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 322 words


IAIN DUNCAN SMITH denounced the BBC yesterday for offering "platitudes" to
terrorists in its coverage of the Middle East.

He lambasted broadcasters for describing Palestinian groups such as Hamas and
Islamic Jihad by "euphemisms such as radical and militant".

In a speech to the Conservative Friends of Israel, Mr Duncan Smith also attacked
the BBC for failing to make clear the "true status" of the Iraqi parliament. But
the BBC denied Mr Duncan Smith's claims, insisting that it reported events in
the Middle East "neutrally and impartially".

Mr Duncan Smith's intervention echoes comments made a year ago when he attacked
broadcasters over their coverage of terrorist organisations. "I said then what I
say again now: broadcasters should call these groups what they are - terrorist
organisations. Such fudging of what Hamas or Islamic Jihad are confers a
dangerous legitimacy on people who could easily extend their war of terror to
this country," he said yesterday.

He told the audience of 300 people in central London: "If this were not bad
enough, a recent BBC TV report on the Iraqi parliament made no mention of the
true status of this so-called parliament. Broadcasters should call dictatorships
what they are: dictatorships."

A spokesman for BBC News rejected the Conservative leader's criticisms of its
reporting of the Iraqi parliament. He said: "I think the history of the BBC's
reports make it clear to any fair-minded view that the regime is as far removed
from a liberal democracy as possible."

He said the BBC had an obligation to be impartial and accurate, and emphasised
that the corporation used neutral language when describing news events.

However, the BBC was "explicit visually and verbally in reporting of attacks
such as suicide bombings, detailing the atrocities which have taken place", he
said.

Viewers and listeners were left to form their own judgements, he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          December 10, 2002, Wednesday

HOW READY ARE WE?;
 HOW WOULD CARDIFF COPE WITH LARGE TERROR ATTACK?

BYLINE: Steve Edwards Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 764 words


IF Britain was hit by a large-scale terror attack would the Welsh capital be
able to cope?

The news that a draft bill will be put before Parliament next year, forcing
councils to put together emergency plans on how to deal with biological, nuclear
and chemical attacks, lends the question what is in place now?' Since September
11 last year, Britain has been on red alert to possible attacks by al-Qaeda.

While Prime Minister Tony Blair has said there is no specific terror threat, the
public have constantly been urged to be vigilant.

News of the proposed peacetime civil protection laws, which according the
Cabinet Office will provide "a structure for civil defence for the 21st
Century," follows warnings from the Government's former emergency planning
chief, Eric Alley.

He believes the UK is not doing enough to ensure it could cope in the wake of
September 11-style attacks.

The new proposals will update post-war legislation from 1948 and 1986 that
reflected Cold War threats. A Cabinet Office spokesman said: "We are consulting
with local authorities, experts and emergency planners.

"This is a significant piece of legislation and we want to get it right," he
said.

But what would happen if the terrorists struck tomorrow - could the city of
Cardiff cope?

A spokeswoman from Cardiff Council insisted adequate measures were already in
place.

"If a major incident or terrorist attack was to take place, the local
government's role would be to support the emergency services. "South Wales
Police would provide intelligence and advise the council, and any necessary
medical equipment would be provided by the health service.

"There are four council officers who are dedicated to dealing with any major
incidents in Cardiff or the Vale of Glamorgan and the council's major incident
plan was reviewed following September 11 last year."

South Wales Police say they are also prepared for an act of terrorism.

Cardiff Chief Superintendent Jeff Cooksley said: "The police constantly review
and update our contingency plans for any eventuality and we have a number of
officers based in Cardiff with specialist knowledge in various areas which we
would utilise in the event of an attack.

"The threat level is assessed on a daily basis," he added.

But if the city was hit by a biological attack, such as smallpox, it would be
the health service that theoretically would be stretched the most.

Last month several NHS hospitals in Britain were put on alert for a terrorist
attack involving chemical or biological agents. Public health officials issued
guidelines to doctors telling them how to identify and treat patients caught up
in an attack involving the deliberate release of anthrax, smallpox, botulism and
plague.

But a report by the National Audit Office (NAO) said the NHS would struggle to
cope in the event of a major attack and that many hospital and ambulance trusts
were not equipped to deal with "significant" terrorism.

A spokesman from Bro-Taf Health Authority, which would invoke a major incident
plan in the wake of a terrorist attack, said: "Since September 11 last year, the
National Assembly has worked closely with the Department of Health and other UK
health departments to examine and improve health resilience in responding to
biological, chemical or nuclear threats.

"There is a commitment to a UK health approach and we will look very carefully
at proposals for raising public awareness of what to do in such an event.

"The NAO report is concerned with arrangements in England. The situation in
Wales is that we continue to build on NHS major incident plans in seeking to
address these new threats and much has been achieved."

Firefighters in the city regularly carry out emergency planning drills but the
September 11 attacks on America illustrate how impossible it is to tackle a
completely unpredictable event.

However, a spokeswoman from South Wales Fire Service said: "We are constantly
looking at contingency plans for every eventuality including terrorist attacks."

The question of whether Cardiff is fully prepared for terrorist attack still
remains largely unanswered.

During September 11, New York's emergency services were overwhelmed and it is
hard to believe Cardiff's infrastructure could cope with a cataclysmic attack.

Understandably, details of key emergency plans are deliberately kept secret to
prevent terrorists trying to sabotage them.

But the Government's proposals suggest a cloud of uncertainty does hang over
current emergency planning provisions.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POSSIBLE TARGETS Landmarks in Cardiff such as Stadium House, Park;
Street and City Hall could be the target of terrorists just like New York's;
World Trade Center when it was attacked on September 11, 2001.

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 10, 2002, Tuesday

Terrorist attacks the final straw for United

BYLINE: Abigail Rayner and Mark Court

SECTION: Business; 23

LENGTH: 583 words


THE impact of the September 11 terrorist attacks doubtless played a part in
yesterday's decision by United Airlines to seek Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection, but only as far as the timing was concerned.

United has been losing money for two years as the US economy weakened and
companies cut back on business travel. United's focus on business class
travellers and its subsequent high-cost base made the carrier more vulnerable
when US companies began to tighten their belts and low-cost carriers started to
increase their market share.

If the atrocities of September 11 had not occurred, industry insiders doubt
whether United would have filed for bankruptcy yesterday. They argue, however,
that such a move may only have been a few months down the line.

Even without the attacks, United should have acted more quickly to withdraw from
unprofitable routes, force through pay cuts and introduce a lower-cost business
model.

The company was putting on a brave face yesterday, assuring passengers that it
would continue to offer a full service and attempting to put the move in a
positive light.

The decision will give the carrier more leverage to argue for lower wages. For
United, burdened by some of the highest labour bills in the industry, a wage
agreement with unions will be key in ensuring its swift emergence from
bankruptcy protection.

But it has a tough job on its hands. United has been engaged in tense
negotiations with its unions over pay for months and, although the unions could
eventually be forced to comply by the mediating judge, a deal is not expected
quickly or easily.

Yesterday's prediction by Glenn Tilton, United's chief executive, that it could
emerge from protection within 18 months, was greeted with scepticism. The
decision has already enabled the company to secure $ 1.5 billion (Pounds 900
million) in financing from Citigroup and JP Morgan among others.

As it begins to emerge from bankruptcy protection and can demonstrate that it
has a sound business plan, it will also get another chance to secure a $ 1.8
billion loan it was seeking from the Government. Last week the Government
refused to provide the loan, after which the decision to file for bankruptcy
protection was United's best option.

Without court protection the company would have been forced into liquidation,
all of its employees would have lost their jobs, and debtors would have lost
their money. Analysts point out, however, that the proceedings will be not be
easy.

"It's bad for management, it's bad for employees, it's bad for debt holders.
It's bad for just about everyone but it's better than the alternative," Jim
Corridore, equity analyst at Standard & Poor's, the ratings agency, said.

He also predicted that rival airlines would follow United into Chapter 11.

Meanwhile, analysts said that United's filing would prove beneficial to UK
carriers such as British Airways, especially over pay concerns. BA is currently
conducting pay negotiations.

"United was unique in having very high labour costs so (the filing) is good for
companies that are trying to get their cost structures back to an affordable
level," one analyst said.

BA, whose transatlantic flights compete with those of United, is also expected
to benefit from some reluctance by travellers to using airlines that are in
Chapter 11. Virgin could also be a beneficiary.

Some analysts, however, have given warning that price competition could
intensify over the Atlantic.


LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 11, 2002

CITY AND BUSINESS EDITED BY STEPHEN KAHN; SECURICOR ACCUSED OVER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: PETER CUNLIFFE

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 208 words


SECURICOR'S US arm is facing 25 lawsuits over its handling of security at two US
airports involved in the September 11 terrorist attacks.

The UK group's Argenbright subsidiary screened passengers at Newark and
Washington airports from where two planes were hijacked and one crashed into the
Pentagon.

After the attacks the federal government took over responsibility for US airport
security.

Yesterday, Securicor chief executive Nick Buckles said Argenbright carried out
its duties and responsibilities properly and had no case to answer. In addition,
the US subsidiary had ample terrorism insurance and was ring-fenced so the
parent company was not affected by any action.

Restructuring and write-off costs at Argenbright took GBP 37million off group
profits for the year to the end of September. After a separate GBP 36million
charge against Securicor Information Systems, which has been put up for sale,
annual group pre-tax losses doubled from GBP 12.8million to GBP 24.6million.
Buckles refused to comment on the sale of its 50 per cent stake in its parcels
business, which will leave the group in guarding, cashhandling and prison
services. The shares rose 2p to 77 dp after the dividend was lifted by a third
to 2.11p.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                               December 11, 2002

Terror attack: how prepared is Britain?

BYLINE: Michael Evans

SECTION: Features; Times2; 6

LENGTH: 1289 words


IF THE WORST HAPPENS HOW WILL THE EMERGENCY SERVICES RESPOND? DEFENCE EDITOR
MICHAEL EVANS EXAMINES THE PLANS, WHILE PENNY WARK CONSIDERS HOW MUCH WE SHOULD
BE TELLING OUR CHILDREN

IT'S 10am, A HOT day with a strong westerly wind. Parliament Square is filled
with traffic. Then the first warning crackles across police radios. The
terrorists have struck. A cloud of anthrax spores is heading for Whitehall. So
what happens next?

This is the theory. Within minutes, workers from the three emergency services,
all dressed in protective suits, have arrived. Pedestrians will need the most
immediate help. They will be ordered to cover their mouths, and shepherded as
soon as possible to St Thomas's hospital just across the river.

There they will be showered thoroughly with soap and water to remove all traces
of anthrax. Their clothes will be instantly removed and discarded into double
plastic bin liners. They will need antibiotic treatment within a matter of
hours. (The treatment will last for 60 days.)

What of passengers in the Tube tunnels beneath the street? If it is decided that
there is a risk of the spores entering Westminster station, the action will be
swift and far-reaching: the whole Underground network will be evacuated and shut
down.Meanwhile MPs, peers and civil servants in the Palace of Westminster and
Whitehall will be warned to stay indoors while the potential for disaster is
assessed.

This is the sort of scenario now being rehearsed regularly by the Government's
civil emergency experts. Every citizen is also to be told how to survive an
al-Qaeda terrorist attack. It sounds like a return to the Cold War days of
fall-out shelters, stocks of baked beans and tin helmets. There is even a
suggestion that every household is to get a government leaflet through the door,
spelling out what to do in the event of a chemical, biological or
nuclear/radiological attack by terrorists.

It seems nothing has changed. In the 1970s and 1980s, when nuclear holocaust was
still a realistic prospect, "protect and survive" civil defence edicts advised
people to shut their windows and draw the curtains after an atomic explosion.

However, those involved in emergency contingency planning, masterminded by the
Cabinet Office, say things are different this time. They have devised a new
nationwide response network, intended to ensure that wherever a terrorist attack
might take place, the reaction and the availability of professional expertise
will be the same. The Government's Cobra (Cabinet Office Briefing Room A)
emergency committee rehearsed a terrorist attack scenario in Cleveland last
weekend.

Every fire service and police force now has trained teams able to respond to a
chemical/biological or "dirty nuclear bomb" attack. The military has also been
restructured so that a brigade commander from each region is ready to react with
emergency teams of regulars and reservists.

About 50 special mobile decontamination teams have also been formed to
decontaminate people and buildings after a chemical or biological attack; and
the Met Office has experts assigned to provide minute-by-minute predictions of
wind strength and direction if terrorists succeeded in releasing deadly
materials such as anthrax spores into the environment. The National Health
Service is stocked up with three and a half million anthrax vaccines and plans
to double the amount of small pox vaccines to cater for 60 million people.

All this planning is supposed to reassure, not alarm, the public, which is
probably why the Government will eventually decide against distributing leaflets
to every householder.

There are already numerous websites, such as the Government's
www.ukresilience.info, which describes, among other things, how to protect
yourself from exposure to anthrax. Masks can help to reduce the risk of inhaling
spores, but they must be worn continuously: "there can be no eating, blowing of
the nose or scratching of the face," it says.

Since September 11, the potential risks to this country of an attack by an
international West-hating terrorist group have unquestionably risen
significantly. But there is no specific warning of any such attack and the risks
have to be put in context.

Terrorists might one day be armed with devices capable of mass destruction but
they will never pose the sort of threat this country potentially faced in the
worst era of the Cold War. Mass destruction in that sense is a misnomer. The
terrorist armed with fearful devices capable of killing hundreds, possibly
thousands, of people, is not going to be equipped with missiles or long-range
bombers. His terror kit relies on stealth and cunning.

The first line of defence against such evil human resources has to be the
intelligence system.This, more than any amount of emergency planning and
contingency measures, will save lives.The budget allocated by the Government for
funding local authorities' civil defence planning is a mere Pounds 19 million a
year, although councils can spend more from their allocated grant. But Cabinet
Office sources say millions of pounds in extra funds are being spent on new
equipment and expertise to counter terrorist attacks. This includes Pounds 43
million for the fire services to buy decontamination equipment, about Pounds 64
million more for the security and intelligence services and Pounds 110 million
on the Home Office budget for counter-terrorism and extra police street patrols.

This will increase next year when the Government publishes a Civil Emergencies
Bill which will include new powers, such as the right to cordon off huge areas
after an attack.

This country is already blessed with almost unrivalled expertise because of
decades of having to deal with Provisional IRA terrorist acts. But the IRA gave
warnings, it was not an organisation committed to creating mass casualties, and
its so-called active service units always devised an escape route. Suicide was
not for them.

Indeed, countering the IRA was never seen as an act of civil defence. The new
terrorism, however, has necessitated a different and more holistic approach,
which is why the Government's crisis-management team - the Civil Contingencies
Secretariat - has become involved in creating a new version of civil defence
planning.

Although the Government is unlikely to admit it, the firefighters' strike has
provided key lessons in civil emergency planning which could prove invaluable if
there is a serious terrorist attack. The new set-up in Whitehall, following a
review by Sir David Omand, who combines the roles of Security and Intelligence
Coordinator and Permanent Secretary of the Cabinet Office, ensured a smooth
operation in which the military stepped neatly into the boots of the firemen.

Civil defence these days, and especially since the September 11 attacks in the
United States, has more to do with genuine survival than any of the rather
quaint notions on offer to the general public before the Soviet Union
collapsed.The problem is that civil defence seems old terminology. You can hear
the sirens wailing and see the Cabinet ministers scuttling off to their regional
command bunkers to escape the fall-out while those who elected them innocently
check their A-Z survival kits at home.

Most of the Cold War bunkers have now been sold off to private owners, and under
current plans there is no intention of sending the Prime Minister and his
Cabinet colleagues off to some underground country retreat in the event of a
chemical or biological terrorist attack in London. There are secure and
protected command posts in Whitehall for the Government to continue as normal.

And today there is a different enemy to combat.


LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                               December 13, 2002

WE'LL BE READY FOR A TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: News; 999; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 384 words


Gloucester's A-Company of The Rifle Volunteers have been chosen to play a key
role in the Government's proposals to set up a Civil Contingency Reaction Force
(CCRF) in the South West.  The proposals, set up following September 11, mean
the soldiers will be trained to provide assistance to the emergency services in
the event of a terrorist attack, but also other emergencies, such as floods or
storms.

Captain John Penhale, Adjutant for The Rifle Volunteers said: "The Government is
forming this civil contingency reaction force to assist blue light services,
such as the police, ambulance and fire, in the event of a major incident that
requires extra support.

"You can take that all the way to the full September 11 or to a lesser extent
and look at incidents like foot and mouth, or floods and storms. But it came
about after September 11.

People are getting quite excited about the Government's warnings about threats
to the country.

"And as well as the police and fire emergency services this is about making sure
the local TA can assist. One of the great things about the TA is they know the
local area - they have local knowledge - and may well know the people they will
end up working with, for example the police." There will be 14 CCRFs across the
country - including the one in the South West which will comprise around 500
volunteers drawn from The Rifle Volunteers, which is the South West's TA
infantry battalion.

The CCRF will also involve soldiers from the battalion's other companies in
Exeter, Somerset, Cornwall and Dorset.

Planning is in the very early stages but he said TA soldiers in Gloucester would
be given two days extra training a year for their new role.

They will also take part in training exercises with the emergency services to
get them used to working together.

Lieutenant Colonel Ian Blewett, Commanding Officer of The Rifle Volunteers,
explained: "The Government has acknowledged the fact that it needs to put in
place measures to address the current threat. What it is also saying is that
there is a well trained, well disciplined and very capable force already in
existence in the Territorial Army, which is ideally suited to the job - and we
are delighted to take up the challenge here in the South West."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 The Gloucester Citizen

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 14, 2002, Saturday

Israeli settlements and terror attacks

SECTION: Features; 29

LENGTH: 133 words


From Mr Joshua Rowe Sir, Lord Wright of Richmond's argument that settlements are
an impediment to peace (letter, December 9) is as debatable as is his portrayal
of them as illegal.

The territories and the settlements are a consequence of Arab belligerence in
1967. Since then, Israel's policy has always been that it would relinquish
territories and settlements in exchange for genuine peace (just as it did with
Egypt when it returned the whole of Sinai, its oilfields and its settlements).

The Palestinian leadership want the territories but not the peace. Until such
time as they do, and for so long as they retain their threatening posture,
settlements are required for security not conquest.

Sincerely, JOSHUA ROWE, 86 Princess Street, Manchester M1 6NG.

December 11.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 14, 2002, Saturday

Israeli settlements and terror attacks

SECTION: Features; 29

LENGTH: 58 words


From Professor Geoffrey Alderman Sir, There has been a Jewish presence in Hebron
for several thousand years and the cycle of violence in that city commenced with
the massacre of scores of Jews, by Islamic terrorists, in 1929.

Yours faithfully, GEOFFREY ALDERMAN, 172 Colindeep Lane, NW9 6EA.

geoffreyalderman@hotmail.com December 12.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 14, 2002, Saturday

Israeli settlements and terror attacks

SECTION: Features; 29

LENGTH: 179 words


From Mr Zachary Segal Sir, I think Dr Bouthaina Shaaban (letter, December 9) is
naive if she believes that the suicide bombing of the Paradise Hotel and the
missile attack on an Israeli civilian aircraft in Mombasa was "an act of
terrorism which they (the Palestinians) had nothing to do with".

The so-called "Army of Palestine" claimed responsibility for these homicidal
attacks within hours of the carnage (report, November 29). Suspicion now centres
on the al-Qaeda network, which according to Islamic militant websites has
recently cited the "Jewish Crusader coalition" as the new focus of its
aggression. I assume this is part of al-Qaeda's campaign to champion the
Palestinian cause and eradicate the "Zionist entity".

To suggest that the murder of innocent Israeli holidaymakers (to say nothing of
the Kenyan hotel workers) and the attempted murder of hundreds of others are
unrelated to the Palestinian campaign of diplomacy by terror is in my view
ludicrous.

Yours faithfully, ZACHARY SEGAL, 6 Dorset Mews, Finchley, N3 2BN.

December 9.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 14, 2002, Saturday

Israeli settlements and terror attacks

SECTION: Features; 29

LENGTH: 97 words


From Mr D. S. A. Murray Sir, "Syrian leader defends suicide bombers on eve of
London visit" (headline, December 13).

President Assad of Syria must know that there is a fundamental moral difference
between genuine freedom fighters, who fight for life, liberty, property and the
pursuit of their own happiness, and those "freedom fighters" who fight for the
right to subordinate the individual to their race, class, culture, state or god.

Yours faithfully, D. S. A. MURRAY, Three Oaks, Deepdene Avenue, Dorking, Surrey
RH5 4AA.

dsam7@btinternet.com December 13.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           December 15, 2002, Monday

CIVIL DEFENCE: NUCLEAR CATASTROPHE TEST DESCENDS INTO FARCE AS SERVICES FAIL TO
COPE;
 OFFICIALS SENT TO WRONG POWER STATION IN SIMULATED TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: Geoffrey Lean And Severin Carrell Cold comfort: Bradwell power station,
near Chelmsford in Essex, was the setting for the disaster simulation that ended
in chaos MICK GELL, SION; TOUHIG/GETTY IMAGES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 671 words


It was like a day-long episode of The Keystone Cops when Britain's elite
emergency nuclear squad struggled to cope with the simulated effects of a 747
cargo jet being flown into a nuclear reactor, setting it alight.

Operation Isis - specifically ordered "at the highest political level" to
reproduce a terrorist attack, and the biggest exercise for five years to address
the effects of a nuclear catastrophe on the public - began at 6.40am on Friday
10 May, when Essex police reported "a major incident at Bradwell power station".

However, the confidential official report admits, "there was no information on
the type of incident, wind direction, wind speeds, etc", all vital for working
out how to tackle the accident and to protect the public.

Five minutes later, further notification was received from the Essex ambulance
service but "the on-call doctor could not contact the ambulance paging service
to confirm the veracity of the information". Another alert "left an incomplete
message" on an automatic system at the Department of Trade and Industry, the
owner of British Nuclear Fuels which operates the reactor.

Confusion descended into farce when yet another alert to the Food Standards
Agency led officials to concentrate on the wrong nuclear power station, thinking
that the disaster was at Sizewell, 45 miles away. Yet another alert turned up,
"not for the first time", at "the wrong place".

It got no better when around 50 emergency experts - from government departments,
key official agencies, local authorities, the nuclear industry and the police,
fire and ambulance services - had trouble in finding their way to the "main
strategic co-ordinating centre" at Essex police headquarters at Springfield, in
Chelmsford.

"The direction maps were difficult to follow," says the report. "When the HQ was
found, it was not clear where anyone was supposed to go." Alarmingly for
security, "there was no identification check on entering".

Once there, the experts were soon caught up in a shambles in "very cramped" and
"noisy" conditions, where people had difficulty even finding the lavatories.
Some key officials were not allocated phonelines and other telephones "kept
being cut off". Fax messages "were not picked up" and "some replies from the fax
machine were not getting through until several hours after they had been sent".

Papers "became disorganised", notice boards "were not updated frequently
enough", and lettering on the computer screens was in white, making it
"invisible when printed".

The quality of the operation reflected the chaos in the control room. A
direction from the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate caused "a considerable
delay in putting out the reactor fire. There was "very little information about
the nature of the release" of radioactivity, and meteorological information,
particularly vital to determine where the fallout would go, was "lacking until
late in the day".

There was "little communication" with the health authority early in the day, and
it was often advised too late that radioactive emissions from the reactor had
increased.

But most alarming of all, there was a delay of more than five hours before the
public could be given potassium iodate tablets, which must be taken immediately
to protect the thyroid against radioactivity.

The report says: "Decisions to protect the public were made by the health
authority at 0900 hrs when Essex ambulance service requested to order stocks of
potassium iodate from the Department of Health/ NHS Logistics.

"Significant delays in the response from the DoH/ NHS Logistics resulted in
access to the tablets being agreed at 12.20 hrs, with their despatch at 12.30
hrs and their delivery to Ambulance HQ at 14.20hrs."

But there was some good news. The report says: "There were plenty of
refreshments throughout the day".

The report, written by BNFL, concludes that the exercise was "a successful
demonstration of the ability to extend existing detailed emergency
arrangements".

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           December 15, 2002, Monday

IRA BLAMED FOR TWO NEW TERROR ATTACKS IN COLOMBIA

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 269 words

HIGHLIGHT: TERROR: Bomb victim


THE IRA has been accused of being behind two fresh bomb attacks in Colombia.

A bomb hidden inside a suitcase tore through a restaurant on the 30th floor of a
building in the capital Bogota late on Friday, wounding 30 people.

In a separate attack, a senator was wounded when he opened a book bomb wrapped
as a Christmas present.

Sen Vargas Lleras was rushed to hospital with wounds to his arm and hand. His
condition was not life-threatening.

Colombian President Alvaro Uribe has blamed the attacks on leftist rebels
trained by the IRA and other European terror groups.

He blamed rebels of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia - known as FARC -
operating with help from the IRA and the outlawed Basque separatist group ETA.

"The reports we have indicate that the FARC group is in contact with
international terrorist organisations," Uribe told reporters.

"Some reports say the IRA, other reports say ETA and they are carrying out these
attacks against citizens in our country."

Friday's attacks came two days after authorities said they had thwarted FARC
plans to explode five powerful car bombs capable of destroying entire city
blocks.

The Colombian army has accused the IRA of teaching FARC urban warfare tactics
that have led to attacks including a mortar bombardment during Uribe's swearing
-in ceremony in August, which killed 21 people.

Three suspected IRA members were arrested last year on charges of training FARC
to build bombs. The men, held in a Bogota prison, are standing trial.

On Friday, Uribe pledged to capture "the last of these terrorists".

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           December 15, 2002, Monday

DOG ATTACK TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 22 words


A WOMAN of 49 who was attacked by two Staffordshire bull terriers in Exmouth,
Devon, is "stable" with serious facial injuries.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               St Helens Guardian

                               December 16, 2002

Deaf girl in terror attack

SOURCE: St Helens Guardian

LENGTH: 274 words


A PARTIALLY deaf schoolgirl was attacked by a sinister thug who jumped out from
bushes and tried to rob her.

Vicky Kelly, aged 14, was making her way down Garton's Lane in Clock Face at
around 4.30pm on Monday when the assailant struck.

Vicky's father, Tony Kelly, believes the man must have been lurking in the
bushes waiting for a victim to walk past.

The attacker, who is described as around 5ft 6in, grabbed the terrified
youngster and put his hand around her mouth to stop her screaming.

He then began rifling through the girl's coat pockets as she struggled to break
free from his grasp.

During the scuffle Vicky, who is deaf in one ear and wears a hearing aid, kicked
her attacker in the shin, forcing him to let go and giving her vital seconds to
escape.

Dad Tony says his daughter has been left traumatised, but unhurt, by what he
described as a sickening attack.

He said: This man jumped out of the bushes and put his hand round her mouth. He
then went through her pockets - it was a horrendous and frightening experience.

She is distraught. All she's done since is walk around like she doesn't know
what to do next and we have had to give her something to help her sleep.

Vicky, who attends Sutton High School, was going to meet her 10-year-old brother
from a schoolfriend's house when the attack occurred.

Tony added: She said this man smelt like a homeless person. He just went through
her pockets, she didn't give him the chance to do anything else.

We just want to warn the people of Clock Face that this person is out there and
say that they should take extra care when they are walking alone.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               December 16, 2002

BALL-AND-CHAIN ATTACK TERROR FOR LANDLADY.

BYLINE: Echo reporter (author email newsdesk@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 262 words

DATELINE: Southampton



A FAMILY was left terrified as a ball-and-chain wielding motorcyclist rained
blows on their car in Southampton this morning.

Grandmother Betty Johnson, landlady of the Ice House pub in Shirley Warren
pulled over in Lancaster Road, Lordshill, to speak to the man at about 12.30am
after realising he was following them.

The motorcyclist then began smashing the windscreen with his fist before Mrs
Johnson, who was in the car with daughter Sarah, 36, and grandchild Kylie, 14,
sped off.

But minutes later the motorcyclist reappeared and smashed a ball-and-chain at
the windows of the gold Toyota people carrier as he drove alongside it.

Mrs Johnson, 57, said: "It was the most terrifying 20 minutes of my life. My
daughter and granddaughter were so scared."

They were pursued around Millbrook for 20 minutes and even drove through red
lights in a bid to shake their attacker off.

Mrs Johnson had been driving a member of staff, and members of her family, home
from her pub when the attack took place.

Her husband Tony Johnson, 63, said: "I would like to get my hands on whoever did
this.

"I wish I had been in the car with her and this man needs to be caught."

The trials bike, which did not have its lights on, pursued the car around Lower
Brownhill Road, Green Lane and Atherfield Road following the attack.

The rider is slim and in his 20s. He wore a white helmet with flame motifs on
it.

Anyone with information should call PC Wright at Shirley police station on 0845
045 4545, or the free, anonymous Crimestoppers line on 0800 555 111.


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               December 17, 2002

Landlady relives her terror at chain attack.

BYLINE: Jamie Thompson (author email jamie.thompson@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: Southampton



REGULARS at a Southampton pub are rallying around a landlady and her family
after they were subjected to a terrifying attack by a chain-wielding
motorcyclist.

Betty Johnson, 57, was back serving behind the bar yesterday just hours after
her car was pursued by the maniac during the 20-minute nightmare journey,

As reported in later editions of the Daily Echo yesterday, her daughter Sarah,
36, and grandchild Kylie, 14, were also in the Toyota people carrier as well as
a member of staff.

They were driving along Palm Road, Lordshill, at about 12.30am yesterday when
they first spotted the motorcyclist and stopped to see what he wanted.

Mrs Johnson pulled away when he began punching the windscreen but moments later
he reappeared.

Their terrifying journey took them across the Lordshill and Millbrook areas of
the city as they struggled to shake him off.

He repeatedly pulled up alongside the vehicle, raining blows on it with a
padlock and chain.

Mrs Johnson, landlady at The Ice House, Warren Avenue, Shirley Warren, said: "It
was terrifying, my daughter and granddaughter were so scared.

"It didn't really hit me till about an hour later. I was so angry.

"I just think we were in the wrong place at the wrong time. I think he would
have done this to anybody."

Punters at the pub, which she has run for about ten years with husband Tony,
spoke of their anger and shock yesterday.

Eric Fitzgerald, 78, of Warren Close, said: "I'm shell-shocked.

"I just don't know why it would have happened.

"She's a great landlady and always looks after the staff and customers."

Ronald Taylor, 52, of Outer Circle, Lordshill, said: "You don't expect this sort
of thing to happen, it must've been so frightening for all of them. You don't
know if he'll do it again to someone else."

The ordeal came to an end when Mrs Johnson spotted a police car and pulled up
behind it. Her daughter had been on the phone to them during the chase.

The motorcyclist smashed the windscreen with the padlock and chain, before
speeding off. The trials bike did not have its lights on and the rider was
described as slim and in his 20s. He wore a white helmet with flame motifs on
it.

Anyone with information should call PC Wright at Shirley police station on 0845
045 4545, or the free, anonymous Crimestoppers line on 0800 555 111.



LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          December 19, 2002, Thursday

'Real threat' of terrorist attack as 7 are held

BYLINE: By Philip Johnston Home Affairs Editor and Auslan Cramb

SECTION: Pg. 05

LENGTH: 558 words

THE threat from al-Qa'eda terrorists remains real but there is no sign of an
imminent attack, a senior government source said yesterday as seven suspected
Islamic terrorists were held in Edinburgh and London.

Officials are also less worried about terrorists using biological or
radiological weapons, which they are not thought to possess, than they are about
"old-fashioned" explosives.

The greatest concern in Whitehall centres on a mass casualty attack on a soft
target, like the car bombing in Bali, rather than apocalyptic scares about
poison gas or smallpox.

Government planners fear that too many wild stories that turn out to be
unfounded will make people less inclined to be vigilant about threats from
unattended vehicles or bags.

Although a number of precautionary measures have been taken, including ordering
smallpox vaccines, body bags and decontamination equipment, a senior adviser
said: "The threat has not increased markedly over the last few months. But we
have become much more aware of the nature and characteristics of that threat."

Information has come from internees captured in Afghanistan and held by the
Americans in Cuba and from normal intelligence channels.

"We found their training manuals, what they talked about, dreamed about and
trained for. We know they talked about producing fairly simple chemical warfare
agents and about how they could use such techniques against ourselves and other
western interests."

However, the source said these were general threats and there was nothing
specific that would warrant alerting the public.

He said the intelligence agencies cannot rule out the possibility that the
smallpox virus may have fallen into the wrong hands. But he added: "We are not
expecting a smallpox attack.

"We have no intelligence of a smallpox attack. But knowing what we know of the
things they discussed it seems prudent to take precautions should it turn out
that this low probability attack should happen."

Nor does the Government expect an attack with a "dirty" atomic weapon or with
chemicals, since the terrorists are unlikely to have access to weapons-grade
substances.

However, the Government's fear is that terrorists' capabilities will grow over
the years.

Three suspected terrorists from North Africa were detained in the Meadowbank
area of Edinburgh and four others in west London after dawn raids yesterday on
four addresses.

Security sources said they were being held on suspicion of Islamic-related
terrorist activity, and were accused of being involved in fund-raising and
logistical support.

They are suspected of being loosely connected to a network associated with
al-Qa'eda, although police said there was no evidence that a terrorist attack
was being planned in Scotland, or that any UK event was being targeted.

A source said they could have been part of a group involved in the supply of
false documents, such as passports and credit cards.

The joint operation, which involved the Metropolitan Police anti-terrorist
branch, was led by Lothian and Borders officers and had been planned for several
weeks.

Several vehicles were seized and the men's belongings removed in plastic bags.

Downing Street said it was not aware of any link between the arrests and the
detention in Paris of Islamic extremists suspected of planning a chemical attack
on Britain.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 21, 2002, Sunday

FRANCE: ISLAMIC MILITANTS ARRESTED IN PARIS WERE PLANNING IMMINENT TERROR
ATTACK'

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 88 words


Four Islamic militants arrested in Paris were planning "one or several"
terrorist attacks in the near future, the Interior Ministry said yesterday. Two
of the four suspects told investigators they had trained in the Pankisi Gorge, a
remote region in Georgia that borders Chechnya, and had met Chechen rebel
leaders. The suspects, three Algerians and a Moroccan, were arrested on Monday.
The ministry said there was "no doubt that one or several terrorist actions were
being prepared in the more or less short term".

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               December 21, 2002

Paris accuses four arrested Islamists of preparing terror attack;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 251 words


FOUR suspected Islamist militants arrested this week in a raid near Paris that
unearthed possible bombmaking devices were preparing at least one attack,
France's Interior Ministry said yesterday.

"There is no doubt that, given the materials found, one or several terrorist
attacks were being planned in the relatively short term, " the ministry said in
a statement.

"All those detained declared during custody their support for jihad, " it said.

The ministry statement named Merouane Benhamed as one of those arrested, saying
that he was an Algerian militant who had taken part in conflicts in Afghanistan
and Chechnya.

It added that two of the suspects had admitted received training in Georgia's
Pankisi Gorge and had met Chechen separatist military leaders.

The statement confirmed information from police sources on Thursday that two
separate raids on premises in the northern Paris suburb of La Courneuve this
week had unearthed devices for possible use as detonators and the iron
trichloride chemical which can be used in explosives.

The ministry statement also mentioned two empty gas containers found in the
flat, which were described by police sources as the same type of container used
in a wave of bombings in France in the 1990s that were claimed by Algerian
terrorists.

The suspects were taken before a judge yesterday with a view to launching a
formal investigation, which would allow authorities to keep them in custody
prior to making substantive charges.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2003

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               December 22, 2002

Focus: How scared should we be?: It has been another week of chilling warnings
about a terrorist attack on British soil. Should we take them seriously? Kamal
Ahmed reveals a crisis at the heart of Whitehall over what to tell the public

BYLINE: Kamal Ahmed

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1628 words


MARGARET THATCHER'S old study is on the first floor of Downing Street. A set of
windows overlooks the garden where the swings and slides for Tony Blair's
children take pride of place.

Every day at 8.30am Alastair Campbell, the Prime Minister's Director of
Strategic Communications and the man regularly described as the second most
powerful man in Britain, uses the office to hold his morning briefing of
internal staff. They are usually routine affairs, going through the timetable of
the day, what the Government will be announcing, and wrap up, incident free,
about 30 minutes later.

Last Thursday Campbell arrived as usual on the dot of 8.30. As he walked through
the corridors from his office at Number 12 Downing Street he settled on what he
was going to say. He was furious. And everyone was going to know about it.

A few minutes later he launched his salvo. There was no swearing. No shouting.
Just cold, unadulterated anger. 'What is the point of having a strategy?' he
demanded. 'What's the point of having meetings?' The last 24 hours had been a
mess, he said, and, worse than that, Number 10 had been in danger of losing
control of one of the most important issues facing the Government: the security
of the public. And if Number 10 was losing control of the agenda that meant the
Prime Minister was as well. And if that happened they may as well all pack up
and go home.

The officials around him listened in silence. After five minutes Huw Evans,
special adviser to the Home Secretary David Blunkett, arrived and took his seat.
The Home Secretary was equally unhappy with the mixed messages that had been
coming out of the Government, Evans said. It had not been a happy 24 hours,
another 'Black Wednesday' as one official involved in the mess ruefully
observed.

That morning Campbell had woken to a set of headlines which made for grim
reading. Stories of terror alerts and imminent terrorist atrocities by al-Qaeda
littered the papers: from gas attacks on the Tube to lorries packed full of
high-explosives driven into hotels in London. To any member of the public they
appeared to convey one message: be afraid.

On the sensitive issue of public security the public might think the Government
would have a well thought out strategy. How much should the public be told about
what terrorists are up to around the country? Is there a real threat from
al-Qaeda? What should the response be when headlines suggest attacks are
imminent?

Far from it. As Black Wednesday revealed, messages on such a sensitive issue
were allowed to spill out, uncontrolled, from officials speaking without the
authority of Number 10. The Prime Minister himself was blind-sided and yet
another slew of 'scare-em senseless' headlines dominated the agenda.

Now Blair has been warned that he has to get a grip on what the Government is
telling the public. One Cabinet member spoken to by The Observer said that it
was 'time to stop scaring the public' and that the constant diet of stories
about al-Qaeda cells, possible hijackings and 'dirty chemical bombs' being
unleashed on the public were in danger of sending them into a spiral of
confusion. And then when a real and present threat is identified, what is to say
that the public won't just ignore it?

'The problem is that a lot of this looks like macho posturing and it is leaving
the public concerned about what actually is going on,' the Cabinet Minister
said. 'If you don't have something concrete to say, then don't say anything.'

But the travails of Black Wednesday go far beyond the actual message the
Government is giving to the public. Today The Observer also reveals that
computer systems used in Whitehall to analyse and disseminate information are
simply not up to the job. The systems, used by the Foreign Office, had to be
shut down late last year because so many documents were going astray.

'In short the security problem has two main features: disgraceful physical and
technological security for the majority of Foreign Office secrets and an
unimpressive, hit-and-miss system for crisis management,' a Whitehall source
closely involved with the Foreign Office process said.

The Thursday morning headlines came after a briefing by the Cabinet Office the
day before. A senior Whitehall official had sat down with more than 40
journalists and discussed at length the latest state of thinking on the
terrorist threat to Britain. Campbell could not believe journalists had been
told they could quote what the official had said.

At the same time a Foreign Office civil servant had briefed the media on Jack
Straw's attitude to Saddam Hussein's official dossier on Iraq's weapons of mass
destruction. He gave a quote from Straw. 'If Saddam persists in this obvious
falsehood it will become clear that he has rejected the pathway to peace laid
down in the UN resolution,' it read.

Downing Street was flying blind on both issues. A briefing on the terror alert
from the Cabinet Office was suddenly beginning to run on the news wires. Then
came Straw's statement on Saddam which Number 10 admitted 'went a little further
than we expected'. In less than 30 minutes Blair would have to stand up in the
House of Commons for the weekly Prime Minister's Questions where he would be
grilled on Iraq and the security situation in Britain.

'All this stuff was coming in which we didn't know was going on and the Prime
Minister was going to be questioned on it in half an hour,' said one Whitehall
source. 'Basically the Prime Minister had to busk it because he wasn't sure what
different parts of the Government were saying,' said another. 'It must have been
made clear to Alastair that the PM was not happy, that's why he was so angry the
following morning. I've never seen anything like it.'

SIR DAVID Omand is a tall, bespectacled civil servant with a professorial air.
When bowled a tricky question he leans back in his chair and stares at the
ceiling, allowing a long pause before coming up with his considered view. A
mandarins' mandarin.

Omand is now responsible for Britain's home security, the man who every day has
to analyse 150 pieces of 'intelligence information' from MI5, MI6 and the
police. He is the country's leading security and intelligence co-ordinator. If
anyone knows the state of the terror threat to Britain, he does.

Omand is based in the Cabinet Office. It was information gathered for him that
became the basis of the remarkable briefing to journalists in Conference Room A
at lunchtime on Wednesday.

It represents where the Government now stands on the terrorist threat. The
officials spoke expansively on the chances of a 'catastrophic attack', a
large-scale terrorist atrocity of the order of 11 September on London which
could lead to the evacuation of Government and people from the capital.

Two committees in Government are charged with organising the response to such an
attack, the officials said. Where would the Government set itself up? How many
body bags would be needed? What if there were a chemical attack on the London
Underground or the water supply was poisoned? The officials detailed scenario
after scenario. And everyone gently ratcheted up the fear factor.

On the briefing went. Officials said that details of plans for such attacks had
been gained from seizing training manuals from al-Qaeda operations in
Afghanistan and interviewing detainees. Much of it is fantasy, the officials
insisted. But they do know that people have been trained in rudimentary
chemistry, for example, and may try some small-scale hit to scare the public.
The sarin attack on the Tokyo underground killed 12 people and induced mass,
national panic.

'The information is very fragmentary and much of it is non-specific,' one of the
officials said. They explained the three key legs of an attack - the what, the
when, the how - that would be needed before a specific alert to warn the public
was published. They spoke of 'postcard targets' such as Big Ben and Canary
Wharf, of 'soft targets' such as seaside hotels or out-of-town shopping centres,
that the threat of a smallpox attack was tiny, that there were a number of small
al-Qaeda cells in Britain but that they were not necessarily planning an attack
and that, one day, it was likely someone, somewhere, would get through Britain's
anti-terrorist defences and kill innocent people in the name of extremism.

The country has to plan for the next five years, not five minutes, the officials
said. They have even started looking at using air raid sirens to warn the public
about imminent attack, but there were concerns that sound-proofed housing and
cars would mean that no one would hear them. What about texting everyone on
their mobile phones instead? Or ringing them at home? Every piece of information
was a possible headline.

Officials say they are in an invidious position. Say too little about the
security situation and be accused of complacency. Say too much and be accused of
scare-mongering. There is little happy middle ground and the public is left not
knowing whether to take it seriously or to ignore it all.

Campbell has now insisted that new systems are put in place to ensure Black
Wednesday never happens again. Any briefings, their status and who is going to
them will have to be cleared by Downing Street first. 'In the end Tony Blair is
the Prime Minister,' said one official who observed the 24-hour chaos close
hand. 'He has to know what is going on. And so Alastair has to know.' It is a
question of public trust.

The Observer TALKING POINT: The domestic terror threat: fact or fantasy? Email
debate@observer.co.uk Plus the best of The Observer's commentary in our
terrorism crisis online special. www.observer.co.uk/waronterrorism


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           December 22, 2002, Monday

HOGMANAY TERROR TARGET;
 ATTACK WAS PLANNED IN GLASGOW AND EDINBURGH

BYLINE: Alan Rimmer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 135 words

HIGHLIGHT: UNDER THREAT: Hogmanay celebrations in Glasgow


SECRET intelligence documents claim that an al-Qaeda terrorist group DID plan a
Hogmanay massacre in Scotland.

A high-level security source has revealed to the Sunday Mirror that both
Edinburgh and Glasgow were considered "high-value" targets.

Police chiefs believe the attack was foiled when seven al-Qaeda suspects were
arrested in Edinburgh and London last Wednesday. The Sunday Mirror can reveal
the secret report specifically warned of the "high probability" of a terrorist
attack during the New Year's Eve festivities.

It names Edinburgh's Princes Street, Princes Street Gardens and High Street as
being particular targets.

Glasgow's George Square and Buchanan Street, along with the "feeder" roads
surrounding the area set aside for an outdoor concert, were also named as
targets.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                           December 22, 2002, Monday

JEWEL THIEVES' TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 167 words


BRUTAL armed robbers left a Birmingham jeweller with extensive facial injuries
after attacking him and fleeing with jewellery thought to be worth thousands of
pounds.

They struck as the unnamed 59-year-old victim was closing Ade's Gems, in
Hockley, Birmingham.

He was threatened with a knife before being repeatedly beaten about the head
with an iron bar.

The pair, who wore black balaclavas, then forced him inside the shop where they
grabbed an undisclosed amount of jewellery.

They left him bleeding heavily before making their getaway in a car following
the incident on Friday night.

Last night he remained in hospital with facial wounds.

Det Sgt Steve Smith, of West Midlands Police, described the attack as 'nasty.'

He appealed to shoppers or anyone in the jewellery quarter who saw anything
suspicious to contact police.

Police are hunting two muscular black men who were 5ft 8ins and aged 25-35.

Anyone with information should ring police on 0121 626 6017.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               December 23, 2002

FAMILY IN FIRE ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: EMMA SLEE and PAUL MATTHEWS

SECTION: News; 999; Fires; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 205 words


A young family had a lucky escape this morning after an arson attack on their
city flat.  Burning paper was pushed through the letterbox of their Whipton home
as they slept upstairs.

The family, from Lloyds Crescent, awoke to the sound of their smoke alarm just
before 2am.

The father went to investigate and found paper on fire in the letterbox.

He was able to put out the fire before it spread to the rest of the property.

None of the occupants - including a baby and a toddler - were injured.

Station officer Mark Wilkins, of Exeter's white watch, said: "They had a very
lucky escape. This just shows how important smoke detectors are. Without an
alarm, they would not have had any warnings if the paper had continued to burn
and caught the door alight." Mr Wilkins said: "It beggars belief how anyone
could do this." Because of the father's quick actions, damage was limited.

A neighbour said: "I heard a lot of shouting. " A police officer was still at
the scene at 8am this morning.

City police said a 34-year-old local woman was arrested at 6am on suspicion of
arson with intent to endanger life.

She was detained at Heavitree Road Police Station for questioning later today.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2002 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 23, 2002, Monday

Hogmanay terror attack reports played down

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 4

LENGTH: 146 words


Reports that terrorists were targeting Edinburgh's Hogmanay celebrations were
played down by police yesterday. Security sources were quoted in several
newspapers saying that militant Islamic groups might target the high-profile
event after seven men were arrested on terrorist charges earlier in the week.

Lothian and Borders Police, which led the raids on Wednesday, said that there
was nothing to suggest the suspects had been plotting a terrorist attack and
there was no information pointing to an attack in Edinburgh.

Armed police and security agents had arrested three men suspected to have al
Qaeda links at three addresses in Edinburgh and a further four were held in
London.

The seven men, all believed to be of North African origin and aged between their
late teens and 30s, are being held at a police station in Glasgow under the
Terrorism Act.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 24, 2002

Terrorist army on the march;
 Attack on Saddam GCHQ has role in tracking down elusive fanatics

BYLINE: Matthew George Parliamentary Correspondent

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.10

LENGTH: 889 words


A 10,000-strong terror army is plotting to wreak havoc in the New Year in 40
countries around the world, the Western Daily Press can reveal.

Experts believe that an attack on Iraq will trigger a new influx of recruits to
a highly motivated and well-funded force.

International analysts say the pool of potential recruits is vast, both in
Britain and Europe, and in Arab countries.

Tony Blair warned after September 11 that the War on Terror was going to be
permanent - but even he must be surprised by the size of the task.

A series of arrests in London, Edinburgh and Paris over the past few weeks has
exposed the complex terror networks operating in Europe, and shown connections
spanning the globe.

And since September 11, the case of shoe bomber Richard Reid, who tried to blow
up a transatlantic flight with 197 people on board, has provided a picture of
the typical terror recruit.

One of the problems for the Security Service - including Britain's electronic
eavesdropping spybase, GCHQ in Cheltenham, which is playing a key role - is how
the new breed of terrorists differ from their predecessors.

The IRA, one of the world's most successful terror groups, insisted its gunmen
and bombers worked in small cells, which reported to a rigid, military-style
hierarchy.

Several cells could be operating in the same British city such as Bristol,
unaware of the others, meaning there was a limit to how much they could tell
under interrogation, even if they wanted to talk. This was the model used by the
white Marxist terror groups of the 1970s, such as the West German Baader
-Meinhoff Group.

The Greek November 17, the only one still operating in a Continental country,
murdered British attache Brigadier Stephen Saunders from Dorset last year. This
group also adopted the IRA structure.

But the new Islamic terror groups, including those operating in Israel and
Chechnya, as well as Osama bin Laden's al-Qaeda, are different.

They are a series of loose affiliations between individuals, who know they can
find support structures throughout the world. And they are also quite prepared
to die for the cause.

The Security Services estimate 3,000 Britons were recruited by militants in the
1990s and sent for military training in Afghanistan and Kashmir.

What links a teenager recruited in Britain, and one from Saudi Arabia, is the
training camp, probably in Pakistan, Chechnya, and increasingly once again in
Afghanistan.

Those in east Afghanistan are small, discreet and mobile because of the threat
from Western forces which are patrolling the country after ousting the Taliban.

BRITISH expert Michael Chandler was commissioned by the United Nations to lead
an international panel report investigating al-Qaeda.

He concluded its operatives are working in 40 countries, and said most new
recruits are disillusioned young men who number around 10,000.

Despite a big operation to close down their finances since September 11, they
are still well funded from investments set up previously, and are actively
looking to acquire weapons of mass destruction.

Mr Chandler warns of the ultimate nightmare scenario of al-Qaeda getting hold of
"some kind of dirty bomb" with nuclear ingredients which could devastate a city.

There was no shortage of recruits before September 11, and the spectacular
assaults on the World Trade Towers and the Pentagon inspired many more.

But experts say the total will be dwarfed by the numbers likely to join al
-Qaeda following the expected New Year military strikes against Iraq aimed at
driving Saddam Hussein from power.

The Foreign Office claims there is little support for Saddam in the Arab and
Islamic worlds. But many others argue there will be a wave of new recruits.

Steven Simon, assistant director of the independent think-tank the International
Institute of Strategic Studies, and a former official at the US Security Council
says recruitment by al-Qaeda has been quite vigorous in the 1990s - even before
bin Laden, now the world's most high-profile terrorist. As well as immediate
attacks against Western interests around the world, there will be a long-term
boost for the terror networks.

MR Simon predicts: "A war against Iraq will generate an increase in conversions
from either moderate to more radical Islam practice, or from Christianity to
Islam in local mosques and within HM prisons."

There would be a perception of the US attacking the Islamic world and so the
pool of al-Qaeda recruits would increase "not only in remote areas but within
the UK and Europe". Another UN document - Arab Human Development Report -
explains the need for economic development.

At around 15 per cent, unemployment in Arab countries is among the highest in
the developing world, and this will grow fast as the region's young people reach
working age. Currently, 38 per cent of the population are under 15, and the
populations of Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Yemen, and the Occupied Palestinian
Territories are all growing at more than three per cent a year.

Living standards are likely to decline, and weak political participation can
only lead to further alienation and discontent.

The report says this fosters Islamic extremism in these countries, which provide
much of the strongest support for terror causes.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Sevenoaks Chronicle

                               December 27, 2002

Girl Faces Jail After Terror Knife Attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 354 words


A teenage girl from Wrotham is facing jail after holding a knife to a tied-up
man's genitalia and trying to perform a sex act on him.  Claire Gilson, of
Wrotham Hill Road, is one of three people who kidnapped Jay Pryke at gunpoint,
after one of the men, Daniel O'Kane, of Wordsworth Close, Chatham, believed he
had grassed on him to police.

The 18-year-old woman also paraded the victim around like an animal with a belt
around his neck and his trousers down.

During the trial at Maidstone Crown Court, Mr Pryke told how O'Kane, 32, and
himself were friends and had met on February 11 at a Gravesend pub, where the
defendant was a bouncer.

Later on, four of them, including Gilson, who Mr Pryke only met a few days
before, went out to a Northfleet cement works in O'Kane's Audi.

Craig Mercer, of Detling Road, Gravesend, also followed in his van.

When they arrived at the site, Gilson and Mercer, who worked there, pointed guns
at the victim, who was then led up a path to a fence.

Mr Pryke was tied to the fence with tape and bound around the neck by Gilson,
using his own belt, before she pulled down his trousers and underwear.

Nina Ellin, prosecuting, said: "She had a knife in her hand. She put it to his
testicles. He was terrified." It was at this point Gilson tried to perform the
sex act on him.

Mr Pryke said: "They treated me like a dog." The jury were told how he was then
taken away in the Audi and dumped by a railway station.

Gilson and O'Kane pleaded guilty to false imprisonment.

She also admitted robbery and possessing an imitation firearm and did not stand
trial.

On Thursday, O'Kane was convicted of robbery, burglary and possessing a firearm
with intent.

Mercer, of Detling Road, Gravesend, was found guilty of false imprisonment and
burglary but was cleared of robbery.

A fourth man, Anthony Sprigmore, of Detling Road, Gravesend, denied false
imprisonment and was acquitted.

Sentencing will take place on February 21 and psychiatric reports were ordered
on O'Kane, who has been receiving treatment.

They were all released on bail.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                       Copyright 2002 Sevenoaks Chronicle

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               December 27, 2002

WOMAN'S SEX ATTACK TERROR

LENGTH: 53 words


    A WOMAN was indecently assaulted as she walked her dog on Christmas morning.

    The terrified 38-year-old, from Wishaw, Lanarkshire, was grabbed by a man
who tried to drag her into nearby woods.

    But the woman - who suffered a facial injury - managed to fight off the
beast and he ran off into the woods.


LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2002 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 28, 2002, Saturday

Paris terror cell 'planned Russian Embassy attack'

BYLINE: Adam Sage in Paris

SECTION: Overseas news; 21

LENGTH: 419 words


FRENCH police have broken up an Islamic fundamentalist cell that was planning a
terrorist attack on the Russian Embassy in Paris to avenge the Chechen
hostage-takers killed in the Moscow theatre siege, the French Interior Ministry
said yesterday.

The ministry also pointed to evidence that al-Qaeda is developing the capacity
to make poison gas. Counter-terrorism agents found a list of products used for
cyanide gas at a flat outside Paris where four suspected terrorists were
arrested on Tuesday, officials said.

In a raid earlier this month on La Courneuve, agents also found a suit that
offered nuclear, biological and chemical protection and diagrams of formulas
that could be used for a chemical attack, judicial officials said.

However, detectives believe that the work on poison gas was part of a longer
term strategy to strike fear across Europe. The cell's immediate plans were for
a more conventional attack, they say.

In Romainville, detectives discovered a remote control device that could be
operated by a mobile telephone.

The suspects in La Courneuve had ferric chloride, which is commonly used for
soldering electronic circuits and was probably destined for bomb-making
equipment.

The officials added that leaders of the cell had been in contact with al-Qaeda
terrorists specialising in "toxic products".

The Interior Ministry statement came after four men - Menad Benchellali,
Belmehel Beddaidj, Maamar Bedderar and Omar Teguer - were questioned by
anti-terrorist judges in Paris yesterday after their arrest in Romainville,
north of the French capital, on Tuesday. Mr Benchellali's brother, Mourad, is
one of six Frenchmen detained at the American base in Guantanamo Bay since the
war in Afghanistan.

Menan Benchellali has been described by anti-terrorist detectives as one of the
leaders of a network of French-based Islamic fundamentalists who have provided
support for rebels fighting Russian troops in Chechnya. Four others were
arrested at La Courneuve on December 16 and a ninth suspect, Noureddine Merabet,
was arrested on the Franco-Spanish border this week as part of the same inquiry.

Last night, the Interior Ministry said that the cell had been preparing to
attack the Russian Embassy as well as other unspecified Russian interests in
Paris. It said that the suspects wanted to avenge the 41 Chechen hostage-takers
killed in October by Russian special forces at the end of the Moscow theatre
siege, in which 121 hostages lost their lives.


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           December 29, 2002, Monday

EXCLUSION ZONES PLAN FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Andrew Clennell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 276 words


Regulations for setting up "health cordons" to quarantine large parts of London
or other major cities in the event of biological attack are being considered as
part of new anti-terror law.

A Cabinet Office spokes-woman confirmed last night that the Government was
considering such legislation as part of a civil contingencies Bill, to be
published shortly.

According to reports last night, cordons would be used to prevent people
panicking and leaving cities in the event of an anthrax or smallpox attack. If
they left those attack areas, it is feared they would spread the killer
infections elsewhere.

"We are considering those sort of powers to set up cordons," the Cabinet Office
spokeswoman said last night. "It would possibly be part of the Bill."

It was claimed that the new laws would allow armed police and troops to be
positioned at train stations and road junctions to stop panic evacuations and
looting in the event of a biological attack.

The Sunday Times quoted a "government official" as saying: "If there is an
attack, we will contain and isolate the victims, then vaccinate and evacuate the
community in a ring around the outbreak to create a fire wall".

A civil contingency reaction force, to be made up of voluntary reservists, some
7,000 strong, which could be armed, would also be involved in quelling unrest
and setting up the cordons. A Ministry of Defence spokeswoman said last night
that a July proposal to set up the force was still in its early stages.

A Home Office spokeswoman said the civil contingencies Bill was to be "updated"
because the current legislation was based on Cold War situations.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 Independent Print Ltd

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                               December 29, 2002

Military 'health cordons' in terror attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 701 words


PLANS are being drawn up by the Government to use military units to cordon off
areas of Britain to counter the impact of a chemical or biological attack.




Under the proposals police would impose health cordons to stop victims of an
attack spreading infection with back-up from armed police officers and military
units to ensure terrorist strikes are contained within the no-go areas.

The move follows concern that Osama bin Laden's Al- Qaida network or Iraqi
dictator Saddam Hussein could be trying to acquire the smallpox virus, which has
not occurred naturally anywhere in the world since 1980 following a successful
vaccination campaign.

Experts believe that if terrorists did succeed in releasing the virus there
could be a massive death toll.

Ministers are considering the legal changes needed to put the dramatic plans
into action, the Cabinet Office confirmed yesterday.

The proposals were given a cautious welcome by Conservatives but the Liberal
Democrats said people must be reassured that anyone caught up in an attack would
receive proper treatment.

A new 7,000-strong civil contingency reaction force will have the option of
carrying arms, the Ministry of Defence confirmed. Drawn from military reserve
forces, primarily the Territorial Army, 500-strong forces will be deployed at 14
centres across Britain in the New Year.

They could take up positions at railway stations and key road junctions to
prevent people fleeing and spreading an attack.

Police can already clear buildings under anti-terrorism laws introduced before
the September 11 attacks in the United States.

But officers may be granted powers to impose the health cordons as part of the
Government's forthcoming civil contingencies Bill. A Cabinet Office spokeswoman
confirmed that Ministers are considering the move but stressed there were no
plans to give police new powers to use force.

Officials are understood to believe a major show of force by specially-equipped
police and emergency units would minimise any need for the use of force.

Professor Michael Langman, of the joint vaccinations and immunisation committee
which advises on biological threats, warned that panic could spread the impact
of a chemical or biological attack.

There will certainly be some panic, with people jumping into their cars with
their families to try to flee the city and avoid contamination, but they would
be stopped, he told The Sunday Times.

London will see a test run of its ability to cope with an attack in the New
Year, the Cabinet Office confirmed. The exercise will involve police, other
emergency services and hospitals. It is designed to ensure new systems put in
place in the wake of September 11 could cope with a real strike.

Shadow Health Secretary Liam Fox said: It makes sense to take all possible
precautions against the spread of deadly infections but there will always be a
time gap between infection and the first symptoms developing, which could mean
movement has already occurred.

Therefore, it makes sense to allow immunisation of the public when vaccines
become available. As stocks increase, the public should be allowed to opt for
immunisation at their own convenience as that will allow improved protection.

Liberal Democrat spokesman Edward Davey said the draconian measures could only
be justified if those who might find themselves inside a cordon knew they were
being treated properly.

Ministers will have to explain where the resources for these emergency units are
coming from, he said. The current bargain basement approach to civil defence
measures will not stretch to these plans.

The public must be reassured that people who are cordoned off will get the help
they need.

These draconian new laws could only be acceptable if the proper decontamination
and recovery services are guaranteed.

Earlier this month the Government announced that it is to acquire sufficient
stocks of smallpox vaccine to inoculate the entire population in the event of a
germ warfare attack by terrorists.

The plan to effectively double the country's vaccine stock was revealed in new
guidelines on dealing with a smallpox outbreak issued by the Department of
Health.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

                       Copyright 2002 Johnston Press Plc

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 30, 2002, Tuesday

CORDON PLAN FOR TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 288 words


POLICE are to receive powers to impose "emergency cordons" around major cities
to stop people getting away after a terrorist strike, it was confirmed
yesterday.

Armed officers and military units could enforce the cordons following a
biological or chemical attack.

Specialist teams based at railway stations and key road junctions would prevent
people leaving and spreading infection.

Police can already clear buildings under anti-terror laws introduced before
September 11.

But officers may be granted powers to impose the "health cordons" as part of the
Government's forthcoming "civil contingencies" bill.

A Cabinet Office spokeswoman confirmed that Ministers are considering the move.

The spokeswoman stressed there were no plans to give police new powers to use
force.

Officials reportedly believe a major show of force by specially-equipped police
and emergency units would minimise any need for the use of force.

The Ministry of Defence confirmed that a 7,000-strong civil contingency reaction
force would have the option of carrying arms.

Drawn from military reserve forces, primarily the Territorial Army, 500- strong
forces will be deployed at 14 centres across Britain in the New Year.

Professor Michael Langman, of the joint vaccinations and immunisation committee
which advises on biological threats, warned that panic could spread the impact
of a chemical or biological attack.

"There will certainly be some panic, with people jumping into their cars with
their families to try to flee the city and avoid contamination but they would be
stopped," he said.

London will see a test run of its ability to cope with an attack in the New
Year, the Cabinet Office confirmed.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Century Newspapers Limited

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               December 30, 2002

Terror attack cordons

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 122 words


NATIONAL: Police would impose "health cordons" to stop victims of a chemical or
biological attack spreading infection, it has been revealed.

Armed officers and military units could impose the emergency cordons to ensure
terrorist strikes are contained.

Ministers are considering the legal changes need to put the dramatic plans into
action, the Cabinet Office confirmed.

A new 7,000-strong civil contingency reaction force will have the option of
carrying arms, the Ministry of Defence confirmed Forces could take up positions
at railway stations and key road junctions to prevent people fleeing and
spreading an attack. Police can already clear buildings under anti-terror laws
introduced before September 11.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           December 30, 2002, Tuesday

RING OF STEEL' PLAN AFTER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: James Lyons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 373 words


POLICE are to receive pow-ers to impose "emergency cordons" across major cities
to stop people getting away after a terrorist strike, it was confirmed y
esterday. Armed officers and military units could enforce t he cordons following
a biological or chemical attack.

Specialist teams based at railway stations and key road junctions would prevent
people leaving and spreading infection, according t o a Sunday newspaper. Police
can already clear build-ings under anti-terror laws introduced before September
11.

But officers may be grantedpowers to impose the "health cor-dons" as part of the
Government's forthcoming "civil contingencies" Bill. A Cabinet Office
spokeswoman confirmed t hat ministers were con-sidering t he move. The
spokeswoman stressed there were no p lans to give police new powers to use
force.

Officials reportedly believe amajor show of force by speciallyequipped police
and emergency units would minimise any need for the use of force.

The Ministry of Defence con-firmed that a 7,000-strong civil contingency
reaction force would have the option of carrying arms. Drawn from military
reserve forces, primarily the Territorial Army, 500-strong forces will be
deployed at 14 centres across Brit-ain in t he New Year. Professor Michael
Langman, of the joint vaccinations and immunisation committee which advises on
biological threats, warned that panic could spread the impact of a chemical or
biological attack. "There will certainly be some panic, with people jumping into
their cars with their families to try to flee the city and avoid contamination.
"But they would be stopped," he said. London w ill see a test run of its ability
to cope with an attack in t he New Year, the Cabinet Office confirmed. The
exercise will involve p olice, other emergency services and hospitals. It is
designed t o ensure new sys-tems put in p lace in the wake of September 11 could
cope with a real strike. Liberal Democrat spokesman Edward Davey said the
"draconian" measures could only be justi-fied if those who might find t hem
-selves inside a cordon knew they were being t reated properly.

"Ministers will have to explain where the resources for these emer-gency units
are coming from," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2002 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 30, 2002, Monday

Plan to enforce city cordons in terror attack

BYLINE: By George Jones

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 363 words

LAWS allowing police to impose "emergency cordons" across cities to stop people
fleeing in panic after a terrorist attack are being considered by ministers.

Armed officers and military units would enforce the quarantining of areas of
London or other cities after a biological or chemical attack.

Specialist teams based at railway stations and main road junctions would prevent
people leaving and spreading infection.

Police can already clear buildings under anti-terrorist laws introduced before
September 11. But they would need extra powers to cordon off large areas for
health reasons if there was a terrorist attack.

A Cabinet Office spokesman confirmed yesterday that ministers were considering
giving the police and Armed Forces the extra powers as part of the Government's
forthcoming Civil Contingencies Bill.

Specially trained armed police and military units would be sent in to enforce
the cordons and control any outbreak of disorder, including looting.

According to the Cabinet Office, changes in the law were needed to cope with the
threat posed by modern terrorists.

There were legal issues around the setting up of health cordons.

"The law may need to be tightened in this area and that is what is being looked
at," a spokesman said.

The Ministry of Defence confirmed that a 7,000-strong civil contingency reaction
force would have the option of carrying arms.

Drawn from military reserve forces, primarily the Territorial Army, 500-strong
forces will be deployed at 14 centres across Britain in the New Year.

Prof Michael Langman, of the joint vaccinations and immunisation committee that
advises on biological threats, said panic could spread the impact of a chemical
or biological attack.

People would jump into their cars with their families to try to flee the city
and avoid contamination but they would be stopped.

London will stage a test run of its ability to cope with an attack in the New
Year, the Cabinet Office confirmed. The exercise will involve police, other
emergency services and hospitals. It is designed to ensure that new systems put
in place in the wake of September 11 could cope with a real strike.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2002 Telegraph Group Limited

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 30, 2002

Police plan health cordons in the event of a terrorist chemical attack

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 429 words


POLICE would impose "health cordons" to stop victims of a chemical or biological
attack spreading infection, it was revealed yesterday.

Armed officers and military units could impose the emergency cordons to ensure
terrorist strikes are contained.

Ministers are considering the legal changes needed to put the dramatic plans
into action, the Cabinet Office confirmed.

The scheme was given a cautious welcome by Conservatives. But people must be
reassured that anyone caught up in an attack would receive proper treatment, the
Liberal Demo-crats said.

A new 7000-strong civil contingency reaction force will have the option of
carrying arms, the Ministry of Defence confirmed

Drawn from military reserve forces, primarily the Territorial Army, 500-strong
forces will be deployed at 14 centres across Britain in the New Year.

They could take up positions at railway stations and key road junctions to
prevent people fleeing and spreading an attack.

Police can already clear buildings under anti-terror laws introduced before
September 11. But officers may be granted powers to impose the "health cordons"
as part of the government's forthcoming "civil contingencies" bill.

A Cabinet Office spokes-woman confirmed that ministers are considering the move.
The spokeswoman stressed there were no plans to give police new powers to use
force.

Officials reportedly believe a major show of force by specially-equipped police
and emergency units would minimise any need for the use of force.

Professor Michael Langman, of the joint vaccinations and immunisation committee
which advises on biological threats, warned that panic could spread the impact
of a chemical or biological attack.

"There will certainly be some panic, with people jumping into their cars with
their families to try to flee the city and avoid contamination but they would be
stopped," he told the Sunday Times.

London will see a test run of its ability to cope with an attack in the New
Year, the Cabinet Office confirmed. The exercise will involve police, other
emergency services and hospitals.

It is designed to ensure new systems put in place in the wake of September 11
could cope with a real strike.Shadow health secretary Liam Fox said: "As stocks
increase, the public should be allowed to opt for immunisation at their own
convenience as that will allow improved protection."

Lib Dem spokesman Edward Davey said the "draconian" measures could only be
justified if those who might find themselves inside a cordon knew they were
being treated properly.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               December 30, 2002

Blair hands fresh powers to police;
 Cities face 'cordons' in event of terror attack

BYLINE: by MIKE AMBROSE

SECTION:  Pg. 1

LENGTH: 468 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair prepared to hand over fresh powers to the police
yesterday as the government stepped up preparations for a fresh military
adventure in Iraq.

Officials leaked stories at the weekend that police are to receive powers to
impose "emergency cordons" across major cities to stop people getting away after
a terrorist strike.

The Cabinet Office later confirmed reports in the Sunday Times that ministers
were looking at the proposals.

"Existing legislation is not flexible enough to deal with the threats we are
facing, " a government spokeswoman said yesterday "On the setting up of health
cordons, the law may need to be tightened in this area, " she said.

Since the terrorist attacks in New York in September 2001, the United States and
British governments have come forward with a raft of anti-terrorist plans, which
often include erosion of civil liberties.

A draft Bill is due to be put before Parliament in the new year calling on
councils to develop emergency plans for biological, nuclear and chemical
attacks.

A Cabinet Office spokesman said that the plans would provide "a structure for
civil defence for the 21st century, " updating legislation from 1948 and 1986
that reflected cold war threats.

The proposed laws would allow armed officers and military units to enforce
cordons following a biological or chemical attack.

Specialist teams based at railway stations and key road junctions would prevent
people leaving and spreading infection.

Professor Michael Langman, of the joint vaccinations and immunisation committee,
which advises on how to deal with biological warfare threats, said that there
was concern that people in cities would try to leave after an anthrax or
smallpox attack, potentially spreading infection.

The government has already announced a series of measures which have been aimed
at raising public awareness of possible dangers from terrorist organisations.

These have usually been carefully timed to try and win public support for
attacks on alleged terrorist countries like Iraq.

Earlier this month, the government announced that it is to acquire sufficient
stocks of smallpox vaccine to inoculate the entire population in the event of a
germ warfare attack by terrorists.

The plan to effectively double the country's present vaccine stock was revealed
in new guidelines on dealing with a smallpox outbreak issued by the Department
of Health.

The Government is currently thought to have sufficient stocks to vaccinate 30
million people - around half the total British population of about 60 million.

Liberal Democrat spokesman Edward Davey said that the "draconian" measures could
only be justified if those who might find themselves inside a cordon knew that
they were being treated properly.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2003

               Copyright 2002 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 30, 2002, Monday

Police may cordon cities to contain terror attacks

BYLINE: Richard Ford, Home Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 553 words


THE police are to be given powers to cordon off cities and urban areas in the
event of a chemical or biological terrorist attack.

Armed police officers assisted by military units would be able to impose the
cordon to prevent people fleeing in panic and possibly spreading infectious
diseases.

The "health cordons" are proposed as part of new legislation to overhaul
outdated emergency planning laws developed for the Cold War threat rather than
the era of international terror attacks. Under the proposals specialist officers
based at railway stations and road junctions would have the power to ban people
from leaving an area.

The cordons are expected to form a key part of a draft consultative Civil
Contingencies Bill to be published early next year. Legislation to bring in the
powers is, however, unlikely to be introduced until the next session of
Parliament, which begins in November.

Anti-terrorism laws introduced before the September 11 attacks allow the use of
force to evacuate buildings, but do not enable the authorities to cordon off
large areas indefinitely for health reasons.

The Cabinet Office confirmed yesterday that ministers were considering health
cordons. It said that existing laws were not flexible enough to deal with
threats posed by modern terrorists.

Professor Michael Langman, of the joint vaccinations and immunisation committee,
which advises on biological threats, said that panic could spread the effects of
a chemical or biological attack. "There will certainly be some panic, with
people jumping in their cars with their families to try to flee the city, but
they would be stopped," he said.

A test run of London's ability to cope with an attack would take place in the
new year, the Cabinet Office said. The exercise would involve police, other
emergency services and hospitals. It was designed to ensure that new systems put
in place after September 11 could cope with an attack.

As part of longer-term planning for a possible attack on London, a civil
emergency planning group has advised that mobile mortuaries should be set up
within hours of an attack and suggested that the Thames could be used as a route
for moving people away from the capital.

Edward Davey, a Liberal Democrat spokesman, said that measures could be
justified only if those who might find themselves inside a cordon knew that they
were being treated properly. He added: "The current bargain basement approach to
civil defence measures will not stretch to these plans. The public must be
reassured that people who are cordoned off will get the help they need. These
draconian new laws could only be acceptable if the proper decontamination and
recovery services are guaranteed."

Liam Fox, the Shadow Health Secretary, said: "It makes sense to take all
possible precautions against the spread of deadly infections but there will
always be a time gap between infection and the first symptoms developing, which
could mean movement has already occurred. Therefore, it makes sense to allow
immunisation of the public when vaccines become available. As stocks increase,
the public should be allowed to opt for immunisation at their own convenience as
that will allow improved protection."

War on Terror, page 12 TIMESONLINE www.timesonline.co.uk/terror Latest news


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Times Newspapers Limited

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           December 30, 2002, Tuesday

QUARANTINE ORDERS PLANNED IN CASE OF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Tomos Livingstone

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 642 words


EMERGENCY cordons could be set up around Britain's cities to contain the impact
of a terrorist attack, it was claimed yesterday.

This could mean people living in areas hit by a biological or chemical weapon
would be prevented from leaving in order to contain the problem and prevent it
spreading.

The National Assembly said it was involved in meetings with the Home Office to
discuss how to respond to any terrorist threat.

The Sunday Times reported ministers were planning to introduce new laws giving
the police and military power to evacuate or quarantine swathes of London or
other cities by force.

A "health cordon" would be set up around the affected area and no one would be
allowed to pass through it until the all-clear had been given or a period of
quarantine had been served.

It is believed that the enforcement of a cordon would prevent the spread of
infectious diseases such as smallpox - an idea dealt with in the recent film 28
Days later.

A Cabinet Office spokesman told The Sunday Times, "There are legal issues around
the setting up of health cordons and keeping people in and out of them. The law
may need to be tightened in this area and that is what is being looked at."

The Ministry of Defence told the newspaper that a 7,000-strong civil contingency
reaction force would be deployed across the UK next year and would be able to
carry live arms.

A spokeswoman for the National Assembly declined to comment on The Sunday Times
story last night, but said, "The Welsh Assembly Government is involved in
meetings chaired by the Home Office at both official and ministerial level, and
they are meetings looking at any possible terrorist threat."

There are fears that Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaeda network or Iraqi dictator Saddam
Hussein could be trying to acquire the virus which has not occurred naturally
anywhere in the world since 1980 following a successful vaccination campaign.

Experts believe that if terrorists did succeed in releasing the virus, there
could be a massive death toll.

In September, The Western Mail revealed that all front-line health service
workers had been issued with protective clothing to be used in the event of a
chemical attack.

Professor Michael Langman, of the joint vaccinations and immunisation committee
which advises on biological threats, warned that panic could spread the impact
of a chemical or biological attack.

"There will certainly be some panic, with people jumping into their cars with
their families to try to flee the city and avoid contamination but they would be
stopped," he told The Sunday Times.

London will see a test run of its ability to cope with an attack in the New
Year, the Cabinet Office confirmed.

Liberal Democrat spokesman Edward Davey said the "draconian" measures could only
be justified if those who might find themselves inside a cordon knew they were
being treated properly. Ministers will have to explain where the resources for
these emergency units are coming from," he said.

Smallpox vaccine

EARLIER this month, the Government announced that it is to acquire sufficient
stocks of smallpox vaccine to inoculate the entire population in the event of a
germ warfare attack by terrorists.

The plan to effectively double the country's present vaccine stock was revealed
in new guidelines on dealing with a smallpox outbreak issued by the Department
of Health.

Currently the Government is thought to have sufficient stocks to vaccinate 30
million people - around half the total UK population.

The Prime Minister's spokesman said, "We have enough to vaccinate key workers
and we want to be able to enlarge our stocks further."

Earlier the Government announced plans to inoculate key groups of National
Health Service and Armed Forces personnel who would be needed to deal with any
outbreak.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 30, 2002

THERE'S NO ESCAPE;
 Police and troops will stop you getting away from a terror attack

BYLINE: Michael Ribbeck

SECTION: News :Other :Armed forces, Pg.1

LENGTH: 88 words


POLICE are to receive powers to impose emergency cordons across major cities to
stop people escaping a terrorist strike.

Armed officers and troops will enforce the cordons following a biological or
chemical attack. Specialist teams based at railway stations and key road
junctions will prevent people leaving and spreading infection.

Police can already clear buildings under anti-terror laws. But officers will be
granted powers to impose the cordons as part of the Government's new "civil
contingencies" Bill.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2002 Bristol United Press

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               December 31, 2002

Phone mast terror raid;
 UVF blamed for attack at Ballymena siteUVF blamed for attack at Ballymena site

BYLINE: By Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 386 words


TERRORISTS have damaged a controversial phone mast, the latest communication
installation to be targeted in Northern Ireland, it emerged today.

The UVF was being blamed for making unusable the base of a mast being built in
Ballymena.

It follows the toppling of a communications mast in County Tyrone earlier this
month, although no paramilitary involvement is suspected in that attack.

The spectre of terrorism in mobile phone mast protests is likely to prove an
unwelcome development for mainstream anti-mast campaigners.

The Ballymena incident comes just days after the paramilitary gang issued a
statement that they were in support of local people who opposed the erection of
the structure in an industrial estate in the Harryville area.

A loyalist source confirmed: "The base was removed on Sunday night/ Monday
morning.

"I was told about this at 6.40am and went round at first light and a number of
the fixing studs have been sheared off at concrete level and the rest are bent.
They are unusable.

"A couple of pieces of cardboard with the words 'UVF' written on them were left
at the scene.

"It is safe to say that the UVF carried this out," said the source.

Last week, in their statement, the paramilitary group said they were opposed to
the mast because the people in the area were against it because of health
concerns.

The terrorists' statement had pledged their full support to the people of
Harryville in "whatever measures they feel they must take to prevent the
erection of the mast".

It added: "Our volunteers will continue to monitor the situation and will abide
by the democratic wishes of the people in the area in the course of their
campaign."

Work on the mast base started in recent weeks but was halted for the Christmas
and New Year holidays.

A spokesman for Hutchison 3G, which is erecting the mast, said: "I have no
comment to make at this stage other than to say that we have been engaging with
residents and councillors in connection with the overall issue."

Police examined the scene on Monday.

The mast is set to be discussed at a meeting between Ballymena Council and
planners this Thursday night.

The telecommunications industry says masts are necessary for mobile phone
coverage, for which there is widespread demand.


LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          December 31, 2002, Wednesday

FEARS OF TERROR ATTACK ON NEW YEAR REVELLERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 212 words


TONIGHT'S New Year's Eve celebrations in London and elsewhere in the UK are
being held in an atmosphere of tight security amid fears that terrorists could
strike at crowds of revellers they regard as "soft targets".

Scotland Yard anti-terrorist police remain on a state of heightened alert and
2,000 beat officers will be on the streets of London for the celebrations.

Officers urged revellers to stay away from central London this evening, although
they stressed this was to prevent congestion and overcrowding rather than
because of any terrorist threat.

However, revellers were advised to be "vigilant".

The main event in the capital - an international parade on New Year's Day - is
expected to attract thousands of visitors and will be heavily policed.

Three years ago, Islamic extremists were foiled on New Year's Eve when they
tried to blow up Los Angeles Airport in the United States.

Ahmed Ressam, an alleged member of an Algerian terrorist group, was caught
trying to enter the US from Canada with a car filled with explosives.

Fears of an attack have already been raised by news that ministers are drawing
up new powers for police and the military to impose emergency cordons if there
is a large-scale terrorist strike in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2002 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           December 31, 2002, Tuesday

DEFIANCE;
 OVER 600,000 HOGMANAY REVELLERS TO PARTY IN SPITE OF TERRORIST ATTACK THREAT

BYLINE: Marie Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 633 words


MORE than 600,000 Scots will defy terrorist threats to see in the New Year at
street parties tonight.

Around half a million are expected to party the night away on the streets of
Edinburgh, with another 100,000 turning out for Glasgow's city-centre
celebration.

Organisers feared concerns about a terrorist attack on the capital's world-
famous Hogmanay party, the biggest in Europe, would stop people turning up.

The recent arrest in the capital of three men suspected of al-Qaeda links added
to the unease.

However, the City Council say even more people than expected have arrived in
Edinburgh.

A council spokesman said: "An stimated 500,000 people have come into the city -
and we expect a similar number to be out partying on Hogmanay.

"Terrorism concerns seem to have made people more determined to have fun."

As usual, the capital leads the celebrations - and with pubs banned from
charging an entrance fee, organisers predict it will be the biggest bash ever.

The fun starts at 2.30pm, when two giant video screens will go on at either end
of Princes Street, showing music videos and short films.

The main party kicks off at 10pm.

Around 150,000 people are expected to cram into Princes Street alone to see the
year's hottest pop act, Ms Dynamite, and veterans Culture Club headline a
concert in the shadow of Edinburgh Castle.

Also in Princes Street Gardens, a World Stage will feature international acts La
Boum, Transglobal Underground and Dhol Foundation.

On Waverley Bridge, the Celtic Stage plays host to Daimh, Salsa Celtica and the
Peatbog Fairies.

Partygoers will also be able to dance the night away at the Assembly Rooms from
9.30pm.

The spectacular Seven Hills fireworks extravaganza will once again light up the
city sky on the stroke of midnight.

For those who have had enough, free buses will leave every 15 minutes until
4.15am from Haymarket, Potterrow, Lothian Road and London Road.

A police spokesman said: "As well as the main party, we expect surrounding areas
such as Calton Hill, Leith and the Grassmarket to be filled with hundreds of
thousands of revellers.

"We just urge people to take common sense precautions, wrap up well, have fun
and be safe."

More than 100,000 revellers are expected at Glasgow's bash, which features four
stages and street theatre across the city.

George Square will host a traditional Hogmanay party from 9pm, with Scottish
music, a ceilidh and comedy.

Chewin' The Fat's Karen Dunbar will take to the stage to see in the bells, when
a huge fireworks display will be launched from the City Chambers.

A council spokeswoman said: "A traditional Scottish Hogmanay celebration is
planned.

"An upbeat programme of Scottish entertainers and comedians has been drawn up to
see 2002 out in true Scottish style."

At King Street car park, the bill for the pop and rock stage includes Space,
Toploader and McAlmont and Butler, plus Scottish newcomers Ashton Lane.

A host of tribute acts, including a Kylie impersonator, will see in the New Year
at the Trongate, while some of Scotland's finest up- and-coming bands will take
to the stage in Wilson Street.

Buses will run from Buchanan Street bus station to areas across the West of
Scotland until 4am.

Elsewhere in Scotland, the celebrations are decidedly low-key.

There is no party in Aberdeen, although thousands are expected in Stonehaven for
the traditional fireball-swinging ceremony.

At Pittodrie, the Dons are also hosting a party to mark the start of Aberdeen
FC's centenary year.

There are no official party plans in Dundee either.

However, a council spokesman said: "We expect hundreds of people to visit the
carnival and they'll probably stay in the city centre to see in the New Year."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           December 31, 2002, Tuesday

WOMAN'S TERROR IN CHURCH YARD SEX ATTACK

BYLINE: Charlie Gall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 232 words


A WOMAN was dragged into a churchyard and sexually assaulted yesterday.

The 27-year-old was walking past the churchyard to a friend's house in the early
hours when the attacker struck.

He grabbed her and punched her on the head before dragging her into the
churchyard, where he brutally assaulted her.

After he fled, she was found by passers-by who heard her crying in the
churchyard.

The attack happened at the Sacred Heart Church in Aberdeen's Torry district.

Detective Inspector John Soutar said the woman suffered "a significant sexual
assault".

Last night, she was recovering at her home.

DI Soutar said: "She is emotionally exhausted. She has bruising and was punched
about the head."

Police are anxious to trace a man in a fluorescent green jacket who flagged down
a passing patrol car to get help for the victim, as well as anyone else who saw
the victim or the attacker.

The woman was discovered by passers-by who heard her crying in the church
grounds.

DI Soutar said: "We'd like to appeal to this man to come forward.

"Three men were present when the police arrived. They had heard the woman
crying.

"We know who they are but don't know who the man in the fluorescent jacket was."

The attacker is described as in his late 40s or early 50s, slim with short
greying hair.

He was wearing a beige jacket, jeans and a woollen hat.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2002 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 31, 2002

Vigilance and tolerance;We must strive for balance after latest terror attack

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 511 words


The year is drawing to a close with another indiscriminate terror attack against
a Western target. Abed Abdel Razzak Kamel, a Yemeni student, yesterday shot dead
three American health workers at the Southern Baptist convention missionary
hospital in Jibla. His purpose was to cleanse Islam, his religion, of "infidels"
and to get closer to Allah, his God. The attack was on Americans who, according
to the

Baptists, were serving their God in Yemen. Yemen is a long way from Europe, but
the al Qaeda network and its proxies pose a threat to Britain and its neighbours
(as well as the United States). Ministers have issued warnings of an attack
here, possibly involving biological or chemical weapons. They are now
considering laws allowing police to impose emergency

cordons across cities to stop people fleeing in panic after a terrorist attack.
The aim is to stop victims of a chemical attack spreading infection. It is the
stuff of nightmares.

More than a year after the September 11 attacks (which, like the bombing in
Bali, another faraway place, claimed British lives) people probably feel in
greater danger from attack at home. There is a widespread view that 2003 will be
characterised by random and planned violence; random because of the threat from
al Qaeda, a shadowy yet present danger; planned because of possible war with
Iraq. Every precaution must be taken to ensure neither happens. Conflict with
Iraq should be countenanced only if there is incontrovertible evidence of Saddam
Hussein contravening UN resolutions, and only then with the consent of the
security council. As to random violence, a balance has to be struck between
being vigilant about the threat from an enemy in the homeland and being paranoid
about people who are equally Scots and Britons but who could be treated
differently because of a different colour and creed.

To conduct a witchhunt for Muslims under the bed would fly in the face of a
tradition of tolerance, understanding, and respect for different cultures built
up over many years as immigrants have made their home in what should be a
welcoming melting pot. We must be vigilant, but being careful must not spill
over into regarding people from other cultures as enemies. Most British Muslims
are as opposed to Islamic fundamentalism as anyone else. Many came here to
escape persecution and a lack of opportunity, to find safety, stability, and
opportunity. These goals might still be distant for some immigrant groups, but
they will not be met by isolating ethnic communities simply because they share
the same colour and background as a terrorist threat. We must stop ourselves
feeling that all Muslims are on the other side. They are not. They are just as
likely to be the victims of terror and random attack. The Bali, Nairobi US
embassy, and Mombasa hotel bombings demonstrated that. Ostracising or
persecuting ethnic communities is also the stuff of nightmares because it
produces the breeding grounds of the types of terror and fundamentalism we must
tackle

coolly within democratic laws.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                               December 31, 2002

Terror of family in 'race gang attacks'.

BYLINE: Kim McRae

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 438 words


image large="31Zenkovicpage15P.jpg" type="portrait"image A Bosnian family fear
someone will be killed before police stop racist thugs from attacking their
home.

Disabled Irfan Zenkovic, 47, and his son Admir, 16, pictured, claim to have
suffered 37 racist incidents in the last four years at their home in Bowater
Court, Holme Wood.

In the latest incident in the early hours of Christmas Eve bricks were thrown at
the house, fence panels kicked in and their Alsatian dog hit with a road sign,
washing line and bricks.

They have installed a camera outside their house to record the thugs in action
and claim to have had 20 different neighbours in four years because of the
problems with crime and vandalism.

Admir said: "A man came and attacked the house, shouting 'We know who you are -
get back to Bosnia.' I went out when I heard the dog barking and the man tried
to hit me."

Irfan, who has a brain tumour, added: "The man was drunk and was beating the dog
with the washing line and a road sign until his leg was bleeding. The man kicked
the fence in and threw bricks at the back of the house.

"The police told me not to go into the garden and to keep the dog outside. But I
can't not go outside or they will kill the dog. If there is no dog in the
garden, they will come into the house instead." He said that at a summer
barbecue, bricks were thrown which narrowly missed hitting a three-year-old
child.

Admir, studying law, business studies and economics at Bradford College, said he
rang the police but when they arrived, the attacker had gone. When the police
left, the suspect returned with other men and carried on a tirade of abuse. The
police were called four times, but each time they arrived, the gang had left.

"We've no faith in the police, so what's the point in ringing them because they
never do anything?" said Admir. "One time, my dad even showed the police where
one of them lived and they said they couldn't go into the flat. Something bad
will happen before anything is done."

A police spokesman said: "I can confirm we are investigating damage to a door
and fencing at a property in Bowater Court in the early hours of December 24.

"We take all such reports seriously. We attended this address a number of times
and made searches of the area."

The pair fled war-torn Bosnia nine years ago. They chose England for refuge
after hearing how safe it was.

Irfan bought a house in Holme Lane before moving to the Brunel Housing-owned
property in Bowater Court. Irfan's wife died four years ago.

Anyone with information on the attack should call the police on (01274) 376459.

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Oxfordshire

                               December 31, 2002

Police prepare for terror attack.

BYLINE: Michael Knox

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 374 words



A mock terrorist attack is to be staged by Thames Valley Police next year at a
cost of GBP 250,000 to test the force's response.

Operation Remount will test the speed and effectiveness of the police's response
to a terrorist threat in partnership with other agencies.

Chief Constable Peter Neyroud said a substantial number of specialist officers
would be involved, including armed response officers, over two days.

Earlier this month, the Government warned there was a high probability
terrorists would launch an attack in the UK.

Mr Neyroud told members of Thames Valley Police Authority: "I have never in my
career seen the threat levels and concerns as high.

"The threat level has got to the point where it would be improper that the
public were not made aware of it.

"It is higher and nastier than it was at the height of the Irish threat."

Details of what Operation Remount will involve, and its date and location have
not been revealed.  Mr Neyroud added after the meeting: "There has been a lot of
criticism of how well or poorly prepared police forces are. But we do put a
considerable effort into it.

"We will be playing the whole thing out in real time as we would in a real
scenario. It's to test the whole system."

Oxfordshire County Council's emergency planning officer John Kelly said the
response of councils, police, firefighters, paramedics and hospitals to major
incidents were being routinely tested, and this should reassure the public.

Mr Kelly said he would not be told what Operation Remount involved before it
took place.

"I don't want to know what the scenario is beforehand -- otherwise there is no
test for me and my staff," he said.

Part of the operation will be played out using computer modelling. But Mr
Neyroud emphasised: "It is to test the linkages between people. The only way to
do that properly is to use the real people involved, including me. It's a
complete a run as you can do."

Mr Neyroud added a location for the operation would be chosen which would not
inconvenience the public.

"In the past when I was head of CID in Hampshire we used a boat in the Solent,"
Mr Neyroud said. "The scenario was hostages on a boat but we had a land-based
element as well."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               December 31, 2002

'Draconian' terrorism measures attacked

BYLINE: Gillian Molesworth

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 541 words


Plans to increase police powers to cope with a biological attack by terrorists
were last night condemned as "scare tactics to sway public opinion towards war
with Iraq" by a Westcountry MP.  A Cabinet spokeswoman yesterday confirmed that
ministers are considering giving police and other forces power to impose "health
cordons".

The measures, part of the Government's forthcoming "civil contingencies" Bill,
would allow forces to cordon off the scene of a biological or chemical attack
and control people's movements.

Under the proposals, specialist teams at railway stations and key road junctions
would prevent people moving away from the scene of an attack and possibly
spreading infection such as smallpox.

But South East Cornwall Lib-Dem MP Colin Breed said that the "draconian"
measures, outlined while Parliament is in recess, are "scare tactics".

He said: "I just wonder if it is just a further means to influence public
opinion towards going to war with Iraq.

"There has been a series of scare tactics - predictions of attacks on the
underground, police cordons - that have been leaked.

"With these new measures, we have had no details, no indication of what they are
actually going to do - and it comes to light while we are on recess so it can go
unchallenged.

"If there were such measures undertaken, it would have to be carefully
considered what would happen next - people would have to be cared for in and out
of the cordons, and responsibilities outlined.

"I am extremely sceptical that the draconian measures suggested will actually be
introduced. It is just another instance of this Government trying to manipulate
public opinion." Police can already clear buildings under anti-terror laws
introduced before September 11.

But officers may be granted powers to impose the "health cordons" if the Bill
goes through.

A Cabinet Office spokeswoman confirmed that ministers are considering the move,
but said there were no plans to give police new powers to use force.

But armed officers and military units could brought in to enforce the cordons
following an attack.

Officials believe a major show of force by specially-equipped police and
emergency units would minimise any need for the use of force.

Yesterday the Ministry of Defence confirmed that a 7,000-strong civil
contingency reaction force would have the option of carrying arms.

Drawn from military reserve forces, primarily the Territorial Army, 500-strong
forces will be deployed at 14 centres across Britain in the New Year.

Professor Michael Langman, of the joint vaccinations and immunisation committee
which advises on biological threats, warned that panic could spread the impact
of a chemical or biological attack.

"There will certainly be some panic, with people jumping into their cars with
their families to try to flee the city and avoid contamination but they would be
stopped," he said.

London will see a test run of its ability to cope with an attack in the New
Year, the Cabinet Office confirmed.

The exercise will involve police, other emergency services and hospitals.

It is designed to ensure new systems put in place in the wake of September 11
could cope with a real strike.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               December 31, 2002

Doctors killed in terror attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 586 words


A suspected Muslim extremist shot dead three American missionaries and seriously
wounded a fourth at a Southern Baptist hospital in Yemen yesterday. The gunman
was arrested after the attack at the complex in Jibla, 125 miles south of the
capital San'a. He entered the Jibla Baptist Hospital cradling a semi-automatic
rifle like a child, then opened fire, killing the three instantly as they held a
meeting. He then headed to the hospital's pharmacy and shot and badly wounded
the pharmacist, Yemeni officials in Ibb province said.

The killings are "a crime unacceptable in any religion. This contradicts Islam,"
said a Jibla woman who gave only her first name, Fatima, and said she used the
hospital. "They cared for us and looked after us. I can't even count the number
of children they treated and saved." The US-based Southern Baptist International
Mission Board identified the dead as hospital director William Koehn, 60, of
Texas, who had planned to retire next year after 28 years of service; purchasing
agent Kathleen Gariety, 53, of Wisconsin, and Dr Martha Myers, 57, of Alabama.

The pharmacist was identified as Donald Caswell, 49, of Texas. The three dead
were shot in the head, Yemeni security officials said.

Caswell was shot in the abdomen and hospital officials said he was in critical
condition.

"We are devastated by this news," International Mission Board spokesman Larry
Cox said. "We are moving quickly to minister to family members located in Yemen
as well as the United States." Officials said they believed the gunman was a
Muslim fundamentalist. The official Yemeni news agency Saba quoted an Interior
Ministry official as saying the 30-year-old assailant, whom he identified as
Abed Abdul Razak Kamel, admitted plotting yesterday's attack with Ali
al-Jarallah.

Al-Jarallah was described by Yemeni officials as a Muslim extremist and as a
member of Yemen's fundamentalist Islamic Reform Party. He was arrested for
shooting dead a senior Yemeni left wing politician on Saturday.

Yemeni security officials said a helicopter carrying a US team that included
doctors landed in Jibla shortly after the attack.

The hospital was cordoned off and security was beefed up around it as forensic
experts gathered evidence.

Impoverished, factionalised, predominantly Muslim Yemen has for years been a
haven for wanted Muslim extremists and is the ancestral homeland of al-Qaida
terror chief Osama bin Laden. Bin Laden enlisted thousands of Yemenis to fight
alongside the mujahedeen of Afghanistan in their US-backed war against an
occupation Soviet army in the 1980s. Many returned when the Soviets withdrew,
and they are a powerful political force.

In one of several such alerts, a November 14 US embassy message to Americans in
Yemen said the US government "continues to receive credible warnings that
additional terrorist activities against Western and American interests in Yemen
are being planned." On October 6, an explosives-laden boat rammed a French oil
tanker off the coast, killing one crew member, tearing a hole in the vessel and
spilling some 90,000 barrels of oil. Statements attributed to bin Laden and his
network's "political bureau" hailed the explosion on the tanker but would not
confirm al Qaida's responsibility.

The French tanker scenario recalled the October 12, 2000, attack on the USS
Cole, which was rammed by a small, explosives-laden boat in the southern port of
Aden. Seventeen US sailors were killed in that attack.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2002 Western Morning News

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           January 1, 2003, Thursday

RIDDLE OF STREET GUN ATTACK TERROR

BYLINE: Ian Fannon Echo Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 183 words


TWO men were today recovering in hospital from horrific injuries suf-fered in a
gangland-style shooting in Liverpool. The pair were discovered sitting in a car
in Roxburgh Street, Kirk-dale, after residents heard blasts from a gun and
called police. Police found one of the victims with severe injuries to his upper
legs and his friend with a wound to his groin at around 5am yesterday. A third
man in the car was unhurt. He was interviewed by detectives yesterday but was
not suspected of carrying out the attack. Neither man's injuries were considered
life-threatening. DCI Ian Campbell said: "There is nothing to link this shooting
to any other at this time. We're working to establish a motive." The three men
had just left the Moonlight Pizza on Westminster Road in their Metro. A Renault
Laguna is then believed to have drawn alongside the car and followed them to
Roxburgh Street. Two men got out of the Laguna and a conversation took place
before the shots were heard and the men got back into the Laguna and drove off.
Anyone with information should call police on 0151-777 4065.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: horror ROXBURGH STREET: Scene of the shooting

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Leigh Reporter

                                January 3, 2003

OAP gagged in terror attack

SOURCE: Leigh Reporter

LENGTH: 250 words


A PENSIONER was gagged and robbed by a man he let into his home.

Describing the attack as cowardly, police are appealing for witnesses following
the aggravated burglary at the home of the 66-year-old in Mealhouse Court, off
Fletcher Street, Atherton.

Some time between 6pm and 6.30pm on Friday, December 20, the victim was in his
house when he saw three men standing outside his window.

The man, thinking he recognised one of them, opened the door. Two of the men
walked away, but one came in.

Suddenly the visitor turned nasty, gagging the pensioner by pushing a
handkerchief into his mouth and stole his black wallet and £100. Before running
away the thief took back the hankerchief.

His victim was uninjured but left very badly shaken by his ordeal. The offender
is described as white, 20 to 35-years-old, of medium build, and spoke with a
local accent.

He had a chubby face, with bulging eyes, and a goatee beard. He was wearing a
black beanie hat with a white stripe, jeans, and a black padded jacket with a
hood.

Det Con Mark Sanderson of Leigh CID said: It is a terrifying experience to be
robbed in your own home. Thankfully the man was uninjured, but has been left
extremely shaken.

This was a very cowardly type of crime, especially given the age of the victim.

I would remind people living alone, especially pensioners, to check the identity
of any unexpected callers at their door. If you are in any doubt at all, do not
let the caller into your house.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 4, 2003, Saturday

NO COVER FOR TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 68 words


BRITAIN'S largest home insurer, Norwich Union, is specifying on its policy
documents that it will not provide cover for the effects of chemical, biological
and nuclear attacks. Norwich Union said it had amended documents to state that
policies would not entitle people to claim for damage. But the group stressed it
had not changed its policies, saying that it was instead making the cover
clearer.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 7, 2003, Tuesday

LAW: THE SIDE-EFFECTS OF TERROR;
 THE THREAT OF A TERRORIST SMALLPOX ATTACK SEEMS LESS REMOTE THAN

BYLINE: PENNY LEWIS A scene from the BBC drama Silent Weapon', about a smallpox
epidemic

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1337 words


The remote threat of a terrorist attempt to infect the population with the
deadly smallpox virus has forced the Government to make contingency plans that
will be published in an eagerly awaited Civil Contingencies Bill. Speculation is
rife that new laws will allow cordons and quarantines to be imposed to prevent
an epidemic spreading. Under the current provisions, the Terrorism Act 2000
gives police officers only limited powers to evacuate premises and establish
cordons when investigating terrorist acts.

The Cabinet Office explains that the proposed legislation, which is only at
discussion stage, will "update terrorism laws that are not considered flexible
enough". A review conducted in 2001 of local response capabilities in relation
to all aspects of emergency planning, generated a specific request for the
Government to address civil contingency capabilities in the wake of terrorism
incidents.

The relative dearth of legal provisions to control the movements of human
"vectors" contrasts with the draconian powers available during the foot-
and-mouth crisis in 2000, when livestock transport here was grounded. A Cabinet
Office spokesperson confirms that there are "legal issues around the setting up
of health cordons". These will form part of the overall debate. They would like
to reassure people, however, that "use of force will not be considered" in the
bill.

Meanwhile, the terror plans prompt questions about measures that might be
implemented to prevent a virus spreading, including whether concerned
individuals have a right to demand inoculation now.

The Department of Health (DOH) recently released a consultation document
entitled "Interim Guidelines for Smallpox Response and Management in the
Post-Eradication Era". This describes initial multidimensional procedures should
this rapid-spread killer re-emerge.

Interestingly, the authors pick up on the lack of "legislation to enforce
compliance with restrictions on activity" during the incubation period - on
average, up to 12 days. They therefore comment that those in close proximity to
patients should "remain close by". So-called "primary contacts" will be urged to
maintain daily contact with the doctor and "will be actively traced" if they
fail to do so.

Should mass inoculation take place before a crisis? The DOH makes plain that
this course of action is not "a first-line option either prior to or in the
event of an outbreak", because of the unacceptably "high risk of complication".

Vaccination in general has been a headache for health authorities and drug
manufacturers. MMR, whooping-cough and hepatitis-B vaccinations have cast doubts
on the wisdom of "herd" and case- specific inoculation. Serious side-effects
from smallpox jabs inevitably generate fears of unnecessary suffering and
compensation claims. Confirming the risks, Dr Liam Fox, shadow Health Secretary,
cites the last major incident, in Edinburgh in the 1940s, when eight people died
following vaccination, and 38 contracted the disease.

Another pertinent issue, therefore, is whether inoculation might be made
compulsory, a course that the Cabinet Office says would not be adopted. Frances
Swaine, a clinical-negligence partner at Leigh, Day & Co, says that "the
Government would have to introduce new laws to make vaccination of civilians
compulsory".

The barrister David Thompson, also a qualified doctor, agrees that there are no
legal powers to force you to be inoculated against your will. Personal autonomy
rules, subject to the qualification that "what is in people's best interests
depends on their capacity. If they are an adult and compos mentis, they can
refuse treatment".

By the same token, can anyone protect themselves or their family by being
vaccinated now, as with travel inoculations? Smallpox immunisation has not been
offered here as routine since 1980, when the World Health Organisation's
worldwide vaccination campaign ended. The NHS website describes vaccination as:
"A way of protecting ourselves against serious disease." There must be
compelling reasons, therefore, not to do so if there is an appreciable risk of
infection. Dr Fox observes that vaccination of key health-workers suggests that
the Government identifies the disease as "a perceived risk". Accordingly, he
queries whether the facility should be more widely available.

The DOH says: "Nobody has a right' to receive the vaccine from the DOH or the
NHS. As with any other NHS treatment, whether it is necessary to provide a
particular service to meet reasonable needs is a matter for the Secretary of
State or NHS bodies." Obtaining and administration of vaccine privately would be
"a matter for the Medicines Control Agency, as the control of unlicensed
medicines falls to them."

Mr Thompson explains that availability of a given medicine usually depends on
establishing that "you are particularly at risk". Understandably, there are
concerns about complications from smallpox immunisation; certain groups are
especially susceptible to adverse reaction, such as pregnant women and those
suffering from immune disorders and eczema.

Ms Swaine doubts that legislation penalising refusal of a vaccination would be
introduced. The issue, she says, should remain one of giving "informed consent",
an issue that has been of paramount importance to parents whose consent is
required for childhood injections such as MMR. In her opinion, the two key
aspects are, first, ensuring there is enough vaccine available to take up, and
second, that the Government ensures sufficient research into side-effects.

The employment solicitor, Barry Stanton, points out that smallpox is a vaccine
that gives rise to statutory governmental compensation following inoculation.
Probably because it is no longer administered, the Vaccine Damages Act limits
damages to cases where vaccination occurred before August 1971. This would need
to be urgently updated to provide redress as a result of fresh inoculation
programmes.

The MMR debate provides a graphic example of legal issues that can dog
vaccination. Stephanie McNerney, a solicitor and mother of a two-year- old son,
summarises the dilemma facing parents. She says that her perception is that
"significant questions have been raised as to the safety of MMR, and the
Government's response has been to bully the dissenters rather than address the
concerns of parents".

A class action concerning MMR involving 1,000 children is being co-ordinated by
Richard Barr of Alexander Harris. In these types of case, Barr explains that
manufacturers are normally the defendant since they supplied the vaccines.
Claims are based on the Consumer Protection Act 1987, which imposes a duty on
manufacturers if their products cause injury and are held by the court to be
unsafe. The issue of safety usually revolves around a number of factors
including the adequacy of warnings given. Mr Barr would like to see a "proper
compensation scheme" analogous to the one in the United States, which does not
have "an arbitrary cap on damages of pounds 100,000". Here, you have to be able
to show that someone was 60 per cent disabled by the vaccine in order to claim
damages from the government.

Jeremy Stuart-Smith QC, who specialises in product liability claims, says that
the only alternative redress is by "proving negligence". He refers to the
decision of "S and others vs the National Blood Transfusion Authority (2001)",
which reviewed the basis of liability under the CPA. He points out that, unlike
negligence claims, "liability is defect-based, not fault-based." The test is
"whether the medicine is not as safe as people are generally entitled to
expect". This, he cautions, is not a "straightforward question of cause and
effect".

With smallpox, therefore, if one "expects the incidence of severe adverse
reaction to be one in 1,000, but it is one in 50, there might be the makings of
a cause of action". For everyone's sake, it is hoped that such legal arguments
will remain academic.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 7, 2003, Tuesday

STATUE OF LIBERTY TO BE SCANNED IN CASE OF TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: DAVID USBORNE IN NEW YORK

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 357 words


THE UNITED States is using laser scanning technology to map every contour of
iconic landmarks, such as the Statue of Liberty and Mount Rushmore, so they can
be quickly rebuilt if destroyed by terrorists.

Particular attention is being paid to symbolic structures without detailed
original drawings. They include the dome of the Capitol in Washington, which may
have been the target of the hijacked airliner that crashed into a Pennsylvania
field in September 2001.

John Burns, of the National Park Service, said: "Since we now face threats to
the touchstones of our heritage, our history and our civilisation, we are now
looking at new possibilities in terms of reconstruction."

Every millimetre of the landmarks is mapped using laser scanners. Once
completed, the country will have 3-D computer models placed for safe-keeping
with the National Archives at an undisclosed government location. Thereafter,
any of the structures could be reproduced down to the last centimetre.

Don Striker, superintendent of Mount Rushmore National Memorial in South Dakota,
told the New York Daily News: "If someone comes along with a suitcase bomb or a
briefcase nuke and blows up a chunk of Thomas Jefferson, and his nose falls off,
the 3-D representation would allow us to perform major reconstructive surgery on
the mountain."

Only sketches exist for the 93m-tall (300ft) Statue of Liberty in New York
harbour, designed by the Frenchman Frederic Auguste Bartholdi and dedicated in
1886. And the eight principal architects who built the Capitol between 1793 and
1868 left only unfinished plans.

w Three men in Hong Kong agreed to surrender to the US yesterday on charges of
conspiracy to trade drugs for anti-aircraft missiles they told an FBI undercover
agent they wanted to sell to al-Qa'ida.

In a move that surprised even their lawyer, the two Pakistanis and an
Indian-born US citizen said they would not fight extradition. They were caught
in the FBI sting by undercover agents who said the three had agreed to provide
five tons of hashish and 600kg of heroin for four shoulder-fired Stinger
anti-aircraft missiles. (AP)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 7, 2003, Tuesday

LIBERTY SCANNED IN CASE OF TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: DAVID USBORNE IN NEW YORK

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 182 words


THE UNITED States is using laser scanning technology to map every contour of
iconic landmarks, such as the Statue of Liberty and Mount Rushmore, so they can
be quickly rebuilt if they are destroyed by terrorists.

Particular attention is being paid to symbolic structures without detailed
original drawings. They include the dome of the Capitol in Washington, which may
have been the target of the hijacked airliner that crashed into a Pennsylvania
field in September 2001.

John Burns, of the National Park Service, said: "Since we now face threats to
the touchstones of our heritage, our history and our civilisation, we are now
looking at new possibilities in terms of reconstruction."

Every millimetre of the landmarks is mapped using laser scanners. Once
completed, the country will have 3-D computer models placed for safe-keeping
with the National Archives at an undisclosed government location.

Only sketches exist for the 93m-tall (300ft) Statue of Liberty in New York
harbour, designed by the Frenchman Frederic Auguste Bartholdi and dedicated in
1886. (AP)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           January 8, 2003, Wednesday

TAKING ON THE TERRORISTS;
 HOW WELL IS BUSINESS PREPARED FOR A TERRORIST ATTACK - AND HOW MUCH

BYLINE: GLYN MN HUGHES

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1480 words


WHILE the world looked on in horror as New York was turned into a raging
fireball on September 11, few could have predicted the knockon effect would be
quite so profound.

Some may have breathed a sigh of relief that there was an ocean separating the
US and Europe. But, in stark terms, nobody has escaped the evil influence of
al-Qaeda. Yet Britain has lived with terrorism for years. IRA bombs hit London
targets on numerous occasions, killed youngsters in Warrington and devastated
the centre of Manchester.  The total cost of the rebuild of Manchester has been
pounds 750m, '' said a city council spokeswoman.  But in the immediate aftermath
of the bomb, businesses were keen to carry on trading and the city quickly
picked itself up. ''

Other parts of Europe have been terrorised by the ETA - the Basque separatist
movement - as well as the likes of the Red Brigade and the Bader-Meinhof gang
for several decades now. Life, though, appears rather more complex.

As recently as last week, the World Bank warned that the global economy faces a
significant risk'' of sliding into recession, not helped by global uncertainty
caused by terrorism. British manufacturing has been mired in the murky depths of
depression practically since the turn of the millennium. According to the CBI's
head of economic analysis, manufacturers had hopes that life was going to get
easier but, instead, it has become tougher''.

Immediately after the World Trade Centre attacks, stock markets around the globe
crashed. This week, the FTSE 100, the most regularly quoted UK index, fell back
below the 4, 000 mark, a far cry from the heady days when it almost touched 7,
000.  It doesn't affect me. Stocks and shares are only for the rich, '' is often
the cry on the number 73 bus. That notion is quickly refuted by Robert
Stansfield, of Pensioners' Voice.  The Victorian idea that stock markets are for
the rich has been turned upside down in the last 30 years. Most people have
investments in pension funds and they rely on those for their income, especially
as state contribution is low.  As a result of the plunging stock markets,
hundreds of thousands of people are suffering acute embarrassment, with an
income drop of 20pc far from uncommon. '' And it goes on. The value of the
average pension fund fell more rapidly over the last three months than at any
time since the stockmarket crash of 1987, according to research from
Russell/Mellon Caps, which looks at the performance of around pounds 185bn
invested by companies and local authorities. Parts of North Wales and North West
England, where the concentration of people of pensionable age is higher than in
many other parts of the country, will feel the chill winds of economic hardship
blowing harder than ever.

But what of the vulnerability of the UK? It's a day-by-day game of nerves which
clearly affects stock markets and business confidence. Almost daily reports talk
of biological attacks, dirty bombs, even nuclear strikes. As Blair lines up with
Bush to take on the terrorists, some say that makes Britain a sure target for a
future attack.

HOW safe, then, are people in this region?  There is an inherent vulnerability
in an urban area, '' said Prof Denis Smith, professor of management at the
University of Liverpool.  And there is a trade-off between vulnerability
generated by terrorism and the erosion of civil liberties.

Most businesses have made contingency plans since the bombing of the City of
London and Manchester, '' he added.  Economic terrorism is clearly important and
September 11 underlined that fact. Terrorists will both seek generally military
and economic targets.  But the business continuity side of the issue is clearly
important. Major multinationals have developed contingency plans to cope with
the loss of a building, whether as a result of terrorism or because of an
accident.  The main problem associated with terrorism is invariably that of
prior warning and intelligence, '' noted Prof Smith, drawing attention to the
intense criticism levelled at MI5 by the Commons Intelligence and Security
Committee in which MI5 was accused of making serious misjudgements'' in its
assessment of the threat faced by UK citizens ahead of October's terrorist
attack on Bali.

Attempts have been made to put a cost on September 11 and the costs run into
billions. But some costs are simply indeterminate across many organisations and
countries and may never be made public.  One of the key issues for organisations
to address is the concern that people so obviously feel about the risks that
they face in the wake of such attacks. '' Last summer, MI5 drew up a list of
al-Qaeda targets in Britain. Key government buildings and installations vital to
the economy find themselves on what is called the critical national
infrastructure'' list.

MI5 agents are said to have visited the country's 15 nuclear power stations,
including those in North Wales, in order to step up security. Other
installations such as the main National Grid sites and the chemical defence
agency at Porton Down in Wiltshire are also seen as being at risk. But is all
this too obvious? There are two major airports in the region with flights into
both Liverpool and Manchester passing over oil refineries and chemical complexes
on the Cheshire banks of the Mersey. What could be easier than to fly an
aircraft into one of these complexes and create a massive explosion, one
possibly releasing a cloud of poison gas?

Tens of thousands dead plus a fifth of the nation's petrol supplies scuppered.
That would, surely, bring the country to its knees.

What's to stop a lethal dose of some deadly poison being dropped, unseen, into a
reservoir in North Wales which could, again, kill thousands on both sides of the
border and bring business to a standstill? The fact is that security is now so
tight at most of these installations that such a scenario is hard to
contemplate.

We are in constant touch with the Government, '' said Bryn Bellis, engineering
director of the Wrexham-based Dee Valley Group, supplier of water to industries
on both sides of the Wales/England border.  Procedures are in place to increase
visits to reservoirs. Needless to say, we are keeping a close watch on the
situation.  But, then, this is nothing new. We've kept a close eye on things as
a result of the Irish problems. Obviously, there's not much we can do to prevent
an aerial bombardment of a water plant, short of installing anti-aircraft
missiles. We are part of the Government's early warning scheme but nothing more
can be said. The whole emergency planning procedure is top secret but it's very
much in place. '' Business has also been hard hit by vastly increased insurance
costs following September 11.  It's a big issue, '' said Richard Dodd of the
CBI.  There have been massive increases in costs and we called on the Government
to address this in its pre-Budget statement. We suggested the government should
use the windfall accrued from insurance tax to help business.  That amounts to
something like pounds 300m. We also asked them to extend their underwriting
cover to address all liabilities. Insurance companies at present generally do
not cover claims as a result of terrorism. ''

Any contingency plans to keep business on track are, naturally, not being made
public.  Of course, the threat is always there, '' noted Stephen Pearce of
Liverpool Chamber of Commerce.  The most important thing people want is for life
to carry on as normal. To make changes as a result of any threat means that the
terrorists have won. '' Yet there are those who think it's all a rather nasty
game being played out a long way from home and, if Britain becomes a target,
London will inevitably be hard hit. The shop in Anglesey and the bank in
Cheshire will still be open for business as normal. IT'S NOT necessarily so. A
salutary tale comes from a colleague in Australia. She ran a highly successful
PR consultancy in the northern suburbs of Sydney, well out of the city rush, in
something of a backwater. The business turned over (A$ ) 500, 000 a year and the
lifestyle was lavish. Come September 11 and business stopped, virtually
overnight. It took a year to pick up, then the bombers claimed dozens of
Australian lives in Bali and business has died away completely with no hope of
resurrection.

Jane Peters has gone from being at the top of the PR tree to withering away in
the New South Wales bankruptcy court. Sydney is 10, 500 miles from New York.
That's the effect on a sole trader. Imagine what might happen to the economies
of both North Wales and North West England if Liverpool or Manchester - or
anywhere else in the UK, for that matter - were targeted by al-Qaeda. Business
is being naturally coy about its plans. That, it seems, has got to be the right
approach.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: IN SIGHT: Trawsfynydd nuclear power station and the oil refineries and
chemical complexes on the Cheshire banks of the Mersey could be targets for
terrorists

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           January 8, 2003, Wednesday

NHS IS PUT ON TERROR ALERT FOR RICIN ATTACK

BYLINE: JULIE WHELDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 200 words


PUBLIC health workers throughout the NHS have been alerted to be on the look out
for symptoms of ricin exposure in patients.

It is understood that so far no-one has been to a doctor showing any signs of
having been in contact with the toxin.

Ricin would cause people to develop a fever and generally feel unwell. If it was
swallowed it would probably lead to stomach ache, diarrhoea and vomiting.

If the substance was inhaled it could lead to serious lung damage.

It could take 24 hours before people began to show symptoms and could be several
days before the most serious problems develop.

Health sources said although only a small quantity of material had been found,
it was felt public health workers should be fully informed about the incident.

Ricin can be made into a powder but the most lethal means of administering the
toxin would be directly into the bloodstream.

One microgram per kilo of body weight could be enough to kill if ricin was
injected. As a spray, it would only be effective if it was used in a confined
place.

As there is no antidote available for ricin poisoning, the Department of Health
says treatment is symptomatic and supportive''.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GANG LEADER: Actor Leonardo DiCaprio arriving at The Empire Cinema,
Leicester Square, London, last night, for the UK premiere of Gangs of New York.

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                January 8, 2003

Terror Attack Fear As Deadly Poison Found

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 373 words


Fears of a terror attack on Britain were heightened today following the
discovery of what appears to have been a makeshift laboratory for concocting
thedeadly poison ricin. Six men were arrested after anti-terrorist police raided
a one-bedroom flat in Wood Green, north London, and discovered traces of the
fataltoxin as well as the ingredients and equipment for making it.

The six were still being questioned today, but it was feared that other
suspectswith quantities of ricin could still be at large.

GPs and hospitals across the UK have been alerted to look out for anyone with
signs of ricin poisoning.

Only minute amounts of the poison, which can be administered by injection,
ingestion, inhalation or simply by physical contact, are needed to kill.

There is no known antidote to ricin, which experts say has the potential to be
used as a bio-terror agent or weapon of mass destruction.

But experts say ricin is most suited to being used, possibly through an
aerosol,in an assassination attempt on a leading public figure rather than a
mass attackon a busy civilian target such as the London Underground.

It could also be smeared somewhere where many people would touch it.

Prime Minister Tony Blair, addressing British diplomats at a conference in
London yesterday, said the discovery highlighted the present and real danger
posed by terrorists, while London Mayor Ken Livingstone described the
revelations as chilling.

Plans by Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terror network to produce ricin were found
in the Afghan capital of Kabul in November 2001.

Iraq is also known to have included ricin in its biological weapons programme.

The six arrested men, who are all of north African origin, were being
questionedover possible links to al-Qaida, although none was initially thought
to be a major player within the organisation. Scotland Yard revealed yesterday
that anti-terrorist police raided the flat early on Sunday morning after a
tip-off just a few days before.

One man was arrested at the flat, which is above a pharmacy, and the others
weredetained in north and east London. All are in their late teens, twenties or
thirties. A seventh person, a woman, was arrested but later released.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 South Wales Evening Post

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           January 8, 2003, Wednesday

SIX ARRESTED IN LONDON AS POLICE FOIL POISON TERRORIST ATTACK

BYLINE: JAMES PRITCHARD IN WOOD GREEN, LONDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 769 words


IT WAS a dawn raid that not only caught the sleeping suspects unawares, but was
also barely noticed by the next-door neighbours.

Only when some residents of Lyndhurst Road and Wood Green High Road started
arriving back at their homes after the weekend did they start to realise that
something very serious had been going on in their corner of North London in the
early hours of Sunday.

By the following afternoon they were wondering what the police vans were doing
in their street, where the quiet residents of the flat above the chemists had
got to, and why officers in protective clothing were moving in and out of the
premises.

The curiosity grew throughout Monday, but it was only yesterday that a police
statement confirmed what some of them had begun to fear - that in an operation
involving properties in East and North London, six North African men and one
woman had been arrested under the provisions of the Terrorism Act.

And in that nondescript flat on Wood Green High Road, with its discreet rear
entrance on Lyndhurst Road, a quantity of the lethal poison ricin had been
found.

In an uncompromising statement the Metropolitan Police baldly stated, No
antidote is known: treatment can only be supportive.''

To add a further ghoulish frisson, ricin is the toxin that was used to murder
Bulgarian dissident Georgi Markov, stabbed on Waterloo Bridge in London with a
poisoned umbrella in 1978.

And here, in a street like any other in the crowded jumble of flats, offices and
shops that make up this part of North London, a group of men had been
experimenting with or even manufacturing the chemical.

Understandably the police were not providing anything more than the bare details
of what they had learned since the arrests.

They confirmed that the woman had been freed, but that the six men remained in
custody.

Yesterday, neighbours seemed astounded at what had been going on in their midst.

Ismat Sigirtmac, who runs a nearby off-licence, said he had seen one of the
young men who lived at the address but had never really taken any notice of
them.

He was an African man but I never spoke to him, you just saw him going about his
business.''

Another local, 90-year-old Charles Mercer, said he had only realised something
was going on when he saw the police vans on Monday.  I had been away for the
weekend and came back to all this business,'' he said.

I didn't know who they were living in there but people come and go all the time
around here. You never really do get to know them.'' The manager of the local
dry cleaners said, With that alleyway at the back you could come and go whenever
you wanted without attracting too much attention. '' An ideal spot for secrecy
then, and with Arriva's main bus depot for North London, Wood Green's
underground station and even Tottenham FC's White Hart Lane all just a short
walk away, it would not have been difficult for prospective terrorists, if that
is indeed what the six suspects turn out to be, to find potential targets as
well.

Last night it was feared that other suspects could still be at large with
quantities of the toxin - and GPs and hospitals across the UK were alerted to
look out for anyone with signs of ricin poisoning.

But experts say ricin is most suited to being used, possibly through an aerosol,
in an assassination attempt on a leading public figure rather than a mass attack
on a busy civilian target such as the London Underground. It could also be
smeared somewhere where many people would touch it.

Plans by Osama bin Laden's Al-Qaeda terror network to produce ricin were found
in the Afghan capital of Kabul in November 2001.

Iraq is also known to have included ricin in its biological weapons programme.

Prime Minister Tony Blair, addressing British diplomats at a conference in
London, said the discovery of the poison in Britain highlighted the present and
real'' danger posed by terrorists, while London Mayor Ken Livingstone described
the revelations as chilling.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, a terrorism expert at St Andrew's University, said, It
is very worrying that apparently a large quantity of this very dangerous poison
was being held in such close proximity to a variety of different targets in
London.

We are facing an extremely dangerous form of terrorism and this particular
incident seems to reveal that we should have the maximum precautions in place
and preventative mechanisms in place against the kind of chemical, biological
and possibly radiological weapons that terrorists are undoubtedly able to get
these days.''

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 9, 2003

Blair facing rift in Cabinet and backbench revolt over Iraq attack;
WAR ON TERROR: Labour cracks widen over dealing with Saddam

BYLINE: Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 581 words


TONY BLAIR today faced deepening trouble over Iraq with a flaring Labour revolt
and continuing tensions inside his Cabinet.

The Prime Minister has been warned by his party managers that a war against
Saddam Hussein without explicit authority from the United Nations would bring
out up to 100 MPs in rebellion and a string of ministerial resignations.

The doubts intensified with a report that Britain is urging Washington to delay
military action until the autumn. The appeal reflects the belief in Whitehall
and among some ministers that there must be clearer evidence that Iraq is
flouting the UN over weapons of mass destruction to give legal authority for
war.

Ministers also believe that if the UN weapons inspectors are given more time to
build a case it would strengthen the chances of a UN resolution approving
military action later this year. The UN's chief weapons inspector, Hans Blix, is
expected to report to the Security Council later today that he needs more time
to pin down the gaps and discrepancies in the declaration provided by Iraq on
its weapons programmes. Mr Blix is due to deliver his first full report to the
council on 27 January. But, in a further softening of the line from London, both
Downing Street and the Foreign Office yesterday stressed that the date was "not
a deadline" and that the inspectors should be given "time and space" to
investigate.

Mr Blair yesterday sidestepped questions in the Commons over what he would do if
President Bush presses ahead regardless with a military strike next month, as
many in Washington still believe. But ministers are in little doubt that Mr
Blair would, however reluctantly, back the United States, and military
preparations are going ahead for just that contingency.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw was echoing the Downing Street line when he
stressed earlier this week that war was not inevitable. But today brought
renewed claims that he had gone too far and embarrassed the Prime Minister by
stating that the odds of war were now down to 60-40 against.

One report said Mr Blair had agreed that Mr Straw's prediction was "extremely
stupid".

True or not, there was continuing hostility between Mr Straw and Defence
Secretary Geoff Hoon, who described the Foreign Secretary's comments as
"unhelpful".

Britain's military build-up is set to continue with more callout notices to
reservists next week and the expected despatch of a strong tank force to the
Gulf. But Mr Blair and Mr Hoon face continued criticism from the Tories and from
some on their own side that, in the words of Iain Duncan Smith yesterday, the
Government is "half-preparing" for war.

A ROW has erupted between competitors for a multimillion pound government
contract for smallpox vaccine.

Five firms, French-owned Aventis Pasteur, Dutch-based RIVM, British
pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline and British biotech minnows Acambis and
Powderject Pharmaceuticals are said to be on the short list.

Powderject won the first £32million contract last April shortly after the
Evening Standard revealed that its chief executive Paul Drayson had contributed
£100,000 to the Labour Party. The Government claimed that there had been no open
tender for the contract because national security was involved.

Now some competitors for the new contract claim Powderject's prices are bound to
be lower because of existing production runs and that the whole tendering
process is a "farce".

Business Page 41


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Leigh Reporter

                                January 9, 2003

OAP gagged in terror attack

SOURCE: Leigh Reporter

LENGTH: 250 words


A PENSIONER was gagged and robbed by a man he let into his home.

Describing the attack as cowardly, police are appealing for witnesses following
the aggravated burglary at the home of the 66-year-old in Mealhouse Court, off
Fletcher Street, Atherton.

Some time between 6pm and 6.30pm on Friday, December 20, the victim was in his
house when he saw three men standing outside his window.

The man, thinking he recognised one of them, opened the door. Two of the men
walked away, but one came in.

Suddenly the visitor turned nasty, gagging the pensioner by pushing a
handkerchief into his mouth and stole his black wallet and £100. Before running
away the thief took back the hankerchief.

His victim was uninjured but left very badly shaken by his ordeal. The offender
is described as white, 20 to 35-years-old, of medium build, and spoke with a
local accent.

He had a chubby face, with bulging eyes, and a goatee beard. He was wearing a
black beanie hat with a white stripe, jeans, and a black padded jacket with a
hood.

Det Con Mark Sanderson of Leigh CID said: It is a terrifying experience to be
robbed in your own home. Thankfully the man was uninjured, but has been left
extremely shaken.

This was a very cowardly type of crime, especially given the age of the victim.

I would remind people living alone, especially pensioners, to check the identity
of any unexpected callers at their door. If you are in any doubt at all, do not
let the caller into your house.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                January 11, 2003

Target for terrorists;
 ATTACK FEARS: warning from man in charge of emergency planning

BYLINE: Amy Wilson

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 419 words


THERE are fears that Bath may be viewed as a 'soft target' for terrorist attacks
because of the number of tourists who visit the city.

Fears of an attack in England have grown following the discovery of the deadly
chemical ricin at a flat in London.

Gordon Hector, emergency manager for Bath and North East Somerset Council, says
the city could be vulnerable because of its popularity with American visitors.

He says the "amount of anti-American feeling there is in the world" means the
city could be attractive to terrorists.

A third of visitors to Bath are from abroad, and many come from the United
States.

The figure dropped following the September 11 attacks, but tourist chiefs hope
numbers will grow again following a concerted effort to encourage Americans to
the city.

Mr Hector, whose team works on contingency plans to deal with emergencies
including chemical warfare, said: "While Bristol may say it's a big city, in
some ways the sort of terrorists we are talking about would be looking at Bath
as a soft target.

"Anywhere could be a target - everyone is thinking of London. But they might go
for somewhere where people aren't looking."

Mr Hector has been involved in several seminars and gatherings held to pull all
the emergency services together and plan for a possible attack.

He said: "We are trying to come to terms with the issue and what could happen.

"We are not particularly worried about ricin, but it's the fact that there are
people out there dabbling in this sort of thing. Somebody may come up with some
substance that could be used for killing people on a mass basis."

But George Hall, chairman of the Association of Bath Hoteliers and
Restaurateurs, said he did not see terrorism as a real threat to Bath.

"I have not noticed any increase in the number of American visitors coming back
to Bath, " he said.

"The numbers have declined seriously in the last two years and, to date, forward
bookings just haven't been coming in.

"But I don't believe that we're in the first league for terrorist activity.

"I think that they would target London and its transport system before they turn
to tourist honeypots like Bath."

But Major Bill Miles, personnel administrator of Bath's Territorial Army base,
which is part of the 21 Signal Regiment, says no one place is more vulnerable
than another.

He said: "Great Britain is a soft target. I wouldn't suggest that Bath in itself
was a softer target than anywhere else in the country."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                                January 11, 2003

Hampshire well-prepared to cope with terrorism attacks.

BYLINE: Charis Mastris (author email newsdesk@basingstokegazette.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 289 words

DATELINE: BASINGSTOKE



HAMPSHIRE and the Isle of Wight are at "the top end of the scale" when it comes
to preparations for a full-scale post-September 11 terrorist attack with mass
casualties, a report to health chiefs reveals.

But it has also been recognised that more work is needed to train staff in how
to use personal protection and decontamination equipment.

The interim report from Strategic Health Authority managers says a
centrally-appointed Health Emergency Planning Adviser made the judgment on the
area's preparedness, which was backed up by another assessment from the National
Audit Office.

This found all health authorities in the South East were either in the
"prepared" or "well prepared" categories.

The report's authors - including director of public health Dr Simon Tanner - say
significant progress has been made in recent months in thinking through how to
cope with chemical, biological or nuclear terrorist incidents.

Plans are in place at Hampshire Ambulance Service and at receiving hospitals,
and there is also "an effective network" of emergency planning liaison officers
across the health field. The report notes that there have also been several
"extremely useful and successful exercises".

However, the report identifies areas for further work which include the
development of plans at primary care trust level and the training of PCT staff.

In the autumn, responsibility for major incident planning shifted to PCTs. The
report also says staff will have to train with decontamination kits, which it
admits "will absorb a tremendous amount of effort in the coming months".

It further states that health chiefs will have to set up a Joint Health Advisory
Cell to support the police strategic command.


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            January 13, 2003, Monday

ARE WE SUPPOSED TO GUESS WHAT TO DO IN NUCLEAR TERROR ATTACK?;
 THIS IS THE ALARMING QUESTION AS COUNCIL MISSES ITS POWER STATION

BYLINE: ERYL CRUMP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 616 words


A NORTH Wales council came under fire last night after failing to meet a
deadline to produce crucial plans to deal with a nuclear terror attack. Anglesey
Council was due to have a strategy in place for dealing with an attack on Wylfa
nuclear power station by the start of the year.

But the council yesterday admitted it could be at least two months before the
public protection plan is ready. Senior politicians last night blasted the
delay, saying the plan was crucial given the prospect of war with Iraq and the
heightened terrorist threat to Britain.

North Wales Tory AM Peter Rogers said last night: "The Government quite rightly
identified the vulnerability of Wylfa nuclear power station and the potential
danger to North Wales and beyond. "Anglesey Council were given six months to
draw up emergency plans, and to make the public aware of these, yet only a draft
plan has yet been prepared. This apparent lack of urgency on the council's
behalf is deplorable. "Yet again, it has been seen to be unreliable and
unresponsive in its action. Surely the ratepayers of Anglesey should call for
heads to roll as further evidence of council incompetence and lack of strategic
thinking unfolds." Anglesey MP Albert Owen said he had raised the matter with
ministers at Westminster. He told the Daily Post: "I am very concerned. The
public must be reassured that emergency plans are in place.

"I have written to the council's chief officer and will be demanding to know why
there has been this delay." Anglesey Council was given six months from last July
to draw up emergency plans to deal with the consequences of incidents, including
accidents and terrorist attacks, at Wylfa Power Station, near Cemaes, and make
them publicly available.

They plans must include arrangements to distribute potassium iodate tablets,
which protect against some forms of cancer, and the evacuation of affected
areas.

So far only a draft plan has been prepared which is now being considered by the
emergency services and other agencies. It could be late March before the plan is
completed and details published.

The council last night blamed the delay on the firefighters' dispute. A
spokesman said: "The authority is to apply to the Health and Safety Executive
and the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate for an extension to the timetable
which will give emergency services and responding agencies reasonable time to
comment on the draft document. "A final version will be produced following
consultation with these relevant stake-holders." But North Wales Fire Service
last night rejected the council's claim the fire strike was to blame. A
spokeswoman said: "The fire service continued to ensure that any information
asked for, during any consultation process, was provided within any agreed time
scales." Campaigners, angry that the public are not being involved, attacked
Anglesey Council and called the process "flawed". People Against Wylfa B (Pawb)
spokesman Dylan Morgan said: "There is a fundamental contradiction in the
council's attitude in that a document which is of obvious interest to the public
is be kept under wraps. "A detailed emergency plan is urgently required bearing
in mind the ageing, clapped out nature of the reactors at Wylfa and full details
must be revealed to the public. "In the matter of a serious accident or
emergency, are the people of Anglesey supposed to guess what to do?" Nuclear
regulators last night played down the delay. A Health and Safety Executive
spokesman said: "The Nuclear Installations Inspectorate (NII) of the Health and
Safety Executive (HSE) are content with the arrangements in place for preparing
the plan." Weather.....Leisure 1

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Q IN THE FIRING LINE: Anglesey Council missed a deadline to formulate
emergency plans to deal with a terror attack on Wylfa power station

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 13, 2003, Monday

SHANNON ALERT;
 AIRPORT FEARS TERROR ATTACK ON US TROOPS

BYLINE: MIRROR REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 333 words

HIGHLIGHT: TARGET: US planes use Shannon


INTELLIGENCE experts have warned the government that Shannon airport is a top
target for al-Qaeda terrorists.

Security chiefs told Taoiseach Bertie Ahern the airport was at "serious risk"
because US troops are using it as a stopover on the way to the Gulf.

Gardai and the Defence Forces are mounting one of the biggest security
operations ever seen in the state.

A senior cabinet source said: "We are concerned about Shannon. It's being taken
very seriously because of the troop flights.

"The security committee has gone into overdrive on it at the moment and the
security pressure is quite high."

The Co Clare airport has become the top concern for the government's National
Emergency Committee NEC set up in the wake of the September 11 attacks.

Ireland has agreed to allow troop transporters to refuel at Shannon as long as
they are unarmed. And thousands more are expected to pass through on their way
to the Gulf.

Extra plainclothes and uniformed Gardai and military personnel have been drafted
in at Shannon airport in a bid to ensure the safety of civilians.

But weaknesses in security were shown up last year when peace demonstrators got
past checkpoints and sprayed graffiti on a US military jet.

A security source revealed: "An attack on Shannon by a cell based outside
Ireland is being taken very seriously since the airport is one of the only
locations outside the Middle East, Afghanistan or the US itself where terrorists
could make a direct attack on US military."

The Green Party said yesterday it is to spearhead opposition to a war against
Iraq and the use of Shannon airport by US military planes.

Party chairman John Gormley said it was "now clear Shannon could become a
terrorist target in the event of a war".

He vowed the Green Party would assist peace activists in every way possible. He
added: "It is totally irresponsible to drag us into a war. The enslavement of
Irish foreign policy to US interest is pitiful to observe."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           January 14, 2003, Tuesday

ATTACK ON TERROR BACKED

SECTION: POLITICS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 67 words


SOUTH Belfast MP Martin Smyth and Fermanagh-South Tyrone UUP MLA Joan Carson
have welcomed comments from South Belfast SDLP MLA Carmel Hanna that republican
and loyalist paramilitaries can have no future role.

Mr Smyth said: "She is right that there is no role for the terrorists and never
has been," adding: "It is unfortunate to see that the SDLP has still not come
beyond empty rhetoric."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                January 15, 2003

City Girl,15, In Sex Attack Terror

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 182 words


Liane Davidson, who is leading the investigation, said today: "This was a
shocking crime on a young defenceless girl. "I appeal for anyone with any
information to contact us and in particular the local householder who may have
been awoken by the girl.

"We have some positive lines of inquiry that we will be following up today.

"But we would like to speak to the homeowner who answered the door to the
girl."Detectives were due to carry out door-to-door inquiries near the scene of
the attack.

Police said they would also be speaking with staff at Oldmachar Academy.

The incident happened between 11pm on Saturday and 2am on Sunday in Jesmond
Drive.

The assault took place near the playing fields at the back of Oldmachar Academy.

The attacker was 17-20, 5ft 6ins, slim, with dark hair and spotty or pockmarked
skin. He was wearing jeans, a light-coloured jacket and a cap.

Meanwhile, police are continuing their hunt for the man who sexually assaulted
awoman in a churchyard.

The incident happened at Torry's Sacred Heart Church at about 5am on December
30.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 15, 2003

FIVE POLICEMEN ARE KNIFED IN SWOOP; TERROR ATTACK: OFFICER KILLED

BYLINE: By Geoff Marsh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 578 words


A POLICEMAN was killed and four others injured last night when they were stabbed
by a gang of suspected Al Qaeda terrorists.

The officers were attacked with knives as they raided a house in Manchester.

Three men, all believed to be immigrants, were detained under anti-terrorism
legislation after the savage attack, but only after emergency back-up arrived.

One policeman, a 40-year-old detective constable, died less than an hour after
suffering multiple stab wounds to his chest and arms. Four other officers, a
detective constable, a detective inspector, a sergeant and a constable, were
also injured, one seriously.

They were being treated at North Manchester General Hospital.

The raid, shortly before 6pm, was part of a joint operation with the
Metropolitan Police Service Anti-Terrorism Branch.

Although police refused to confirm details, they admitted the raid was linked to
the discovery of the deadly poison ricin in a London flat last week. Scotland
Yard warned then that, although it had disrupted a major terrorist cell, they
were more concerned that other suspects were probably still at large armed with
the bulk of the deadly toxin.

The three-storey Victorian semi stormed by the police is split into separate
flats and the leafy suburban street in the Crumpsall area of the city has a high
ethnic minority population.

Police confirmed that immigration officials were present, but refused to reveal
the nationalities of the arrested men. A main road junction adjoining the
address was immediately closed to traffic.

A spokeswoman for Greater Manchester Police said:

"Officers attended an address in North Manchester this afternoon with
immigration officials to detain a man under counterterrorism legislation.

"Two further men in their 20s were arrested under the Counter-Terrorism Act 2000
in connection with an ongoing operation with the Metropolitan Police Service
Anti-Terrorism Branch.

"Shortly before 6pm the officers searching the premises requested back-up after
three officers were believed to have been injured."

The raid comes less than a week after Anti-Terrorist Branch officers arrested
six North African men following the finding of "traces" of the deadly toxin
ricin at their flat in Wood Green, north London.

Police sources claimed then that although traces of ricin were found, they
warned chillingly: "The material which is causing us concern is no longer
there."

Police fear a powdered form of ricin or aerosols loaded with the poison could be
used in an attack. Department of Health officials have warned hospitals and GPs
to be on the lookout for patients suffering early symptoms, and the
Anti-Terrorist Branch admitted it is in a "desperate race against time" to round
up the other suspects.

Terrorist experts have made it clear they do not suspect a mass attack aimed at
causing large numbers of civilian casualties is being planned. But the discovery
of traces of ricin - 1,000 times more deadly than cyanide - has been linked to a
possible attack on public transport or open public spaces.

Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin said: "The whole nation will mourn the
murder of a hero who died defending us from terrorism. This illustrates clearly
the nature of the danger with which we are faced."

Liberal Democrat Home Affairs spokesman Simon Hughes said: "This tragedy reminds
us of the dangerous job done by our security and police services in the front
line."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 15, 2003

AFTER HOUR'S SEARCH SUSPECT WRIGGLES FREE, GRABS KNIFE AND STABS 5 OFFICERS;
TERROR ATTACK: COPPER KILLED

BYLINE: By Geoff Marsh and Jane Young

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2 3

LENGTH: 976 words


A POLICEMAN was killed and four other officers injured last night when they were
attacked an hour after they had detained suspected Al Qaeda terrorists.

The murdered officer died after one suspect broke free and grabbed a kitchen
knife after the raid on a house in Manchester. He was stabbed in the chest.

Police confirmed the raid was connected with the discovery of ricin in north
London and a forensic examination was being carried out at the scene although
officers had not expected to find traces of the lethal substance at the house.
Greater Manchester Police Chief Constable Michael Todd said last night officers
were searching the flat when one of the terror suspects grabbed a large knife.
He said: "During the course of the search one of the suspects managed to get
free, get a knife and stab a number of our officers. One, a 40-year-old special
branch officer, was sadly killed."

Police from the tactical aid unit were wearing protective equipment when they
entered the flat, Mr Todd said. They were supported by special branch officers.

"It's been a rather terrifying day for all of us and a rather traumatic day with
one of our officers losing his life, " he said.

He said the operation was "intelligence led", in which the officers were seeking
a specific person. "We had no suspicion that we were likely to find ricin on the
premises - we were looking for an individual, " he added.

Police later confirmed that all of the injured officers were aged between 34 and
42. In addition to the officer who was killed, three others were stabbed - one
seriously - and one suffered a broken ankle.

The three arrested men were aged 23, 27 and 29 and believed to be of North
African or Middle East origin. Last night two of men were being held under the
Terrorism Act. The third suspect was detained under the Anti-Terrorist, Crime
and Security Bill in Manchester.

Of the two being held under the Terrorism Act, one was last night being held in
Manchester where he was being questioned about the murder of the officer. The
other was driven to London for questioning by the Anti-Terrorist Branch.

Last night it was also revealed that the raid was ordered by Home Secretary
David Blunkett in connection with last week's ricin arrests in London.

One source said: "We are talking about a raid as part of a nationwide operation.

It is an on-going operation against Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda."

Tony Blair expressed his dismay at the killing and said he was shocked and
saddened at the death of a brave police officer.

migrants, were detained under antiterrorism legislation after the savage attack
but only after emergency back-up arrived.

The dead officer, a father-of-three who has not yet been named, was a
plainclothes detective constable aged 40. He died less than an hour after
suffering multiple stab wounds to his chest and arms.

Four other officers, a detective constable, a detective inspector, a sergeant
and a constable, were among the injured, one seriously. They were being treated
at North Manchester General Hospital.

The raid, shortly before 6pm, was part of a joint operation with the
Metropolitan Police Service Anti-Terrorism Branch.

Last night Assistant Chief Constable Alan Green confirmed it was linked to the
discovery of the deadly poison ricin in a London flat last week. But he stressed
no traces of the toxin had yet been found in the flat in Crumpsall Lane.

A teenage girl told last night how she saw colleagues battling to save the life
of the officer. Mikayla O'Farrell, 13, saw him stagger from the building
drenched in blood just moments after he had been knifed in the chest.

She described his horrifying screams as first fellow officers and then
paramedics fought in vain to save him.

The teenager, who was with her 11year-old sister Aine, live just 50 yards from
the scene of the murder.

She said: "I saw the police officer come out of the house and his white shirt
was covered in blood, I think he had been stabbed in the chest because he had
blood on his front and arm. There was lots of blood, it formed into a puddle.

"He had policemen helping him out of the house and you could hear his screaming
'arrgh' as they took him for help. He was holding a paper towel against his
chest. He was obviously in agony and then I saw another officer giving him heart
massage as he lay on the floor.

"We only came out when we heard the sirens but it had obviously only just
happened. Then I saw a woman doctor who was giving heart massage to another man
who was also injured.

"We didn't know too much about it only that my mum had heard screaming just
minutes before and we came out to see what was happening. It was terrifying."

It is understood a single officer from the Metropolitan Police's Anti-Terrorist
Branch travelled to Manchester early yesterday to brief a group of local
officers about the proposed raid.

He told colleagues from the Greater Manchester Police that he was acting on
information that a lone suspect in the flat was wanted by the Anti-Terrorist
Branch and is believed to have been with the officers when they raided the flat.

Scotland Yard warned last week that, although they had disrupted a major
terrorist cell, they were more concerned that other suspects were still at large
armed with the bulk of the toxin.

The three-storey Victorian semi in the Crumpsall area of Manchester, which has a
high ethnic minority population, is split into several separate flats.

Witnesses saw police cars circle the building before at least half a dozen
officers - some in plain clothes - entered.

Jawad Hussein, 18, lives directly opposite. He said: "It was terrifying. Police
officers arrived and jumped out of their cars and rushed into the building. We
were told to go in and not to hang around, just to get away."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 15, 2003

ATTACKING IRAQ WILL NOT END TERRORIST PLOTS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 119 words


MR BLAIR argues that we must go to war with Iraq to prevent its weapons of mass
destruction falling into the hands of terrorist organisations ("We must disarm
Saddam", January 14). Surely if we invade, Saddam will use these weapons to
defend himself?

Over and above this, is this the best way to defeat terrorism?

Terrorists do not need a national base - they can work out of a bedsit in any
city - and will always exist where a small number of people are sufficiently
motivated, alienated from the wider society and supported by a sympathetic
minority around them.

Attacking Iraq hardly seems the best way to defeat them.

Chris Barnes, Liberal Party Spokesman on Policing and Community Safety

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 15, 2003

PC killed in terror raid;
 Five officers attacked as ricin poison plot suspects arrested

BYLINE: Richard Edwards

SECTION: News :Politics :MPs, Pg.1

LENGTH: 543 words


A POLICEMAN was stabbed to death last night while arresting suspected ricin
terrorists in Manchester.

Special Branch officer Stephen Oake, a 40-year-old father-of-three, was killed
and four of his colleagues injured during a raid on a house in the suburb of
Crumpsall. Three men - of North African origin - were arrested under terrorist
legislation and a murder investigation was launched.

Chief Constable of Greater Manchester Michael Todd confirmed the intelligence
-led mission was linked to the discovery of ricin in London ten days ago.

But he said no traces of poison were expected to be found at the Manchester
house.

Officers had arrested three men and were searching the flat when one broke free
and attacked them with a large kitchen knife.

Last night, tributes were paid to the bravery of the police involved.

Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "I was shocked and very saddened to learn of the
death of this brave police officer.

"It is an appalling tragedy and wicked in the extreme. The thoughts of everyone
must be with his family and his colleagues.

"His death and the injuries to the other officers involved in this incident
underline the dangers that our police and security forces face in these times."

Chief Constable Todd said: "It's been a terrifying day for all of us and a
traumatic day with one of our officers losing his life."

Assistant Chief Constable Alan Green added: "We have lost a colleague, many
people have lost a very good friend.

"My concerns and sympathies go out to the families and the other officers
involved."

Officers entered a three-storey Victorian semi in the leafy suburb of Crumpsall
at around 5.50pm

They were acting after a tip-off from the Metropolitan Police.

The detectives expected to confront one suspect they wished to arrest, but were
faced with three men.

They had arrested the men and were one hour into the operation when one of the
prisoners struggled free, picked up a knife and attacked the policemen.

Detective Constable Oake was stabbed in the chest. He was treated at the scene
but was pronounced dead on arrival at North Manchester Hospital.

Of the other four officers, a 38-year-old Special Branch Detective Inspector was
also stabbed in the chest but is now out of danger.

A 41-year-old Detective Sergeant was stabbed in the arm, a 34-year-old Constable
suffered a broken ankle and a 42-year-old Sergeant a leg injury.

Three of the officers attacked, including the dead man, were from Special Branch
and were not wearing protective clothing.

Police were last night continuing to search the property and recovered a knife.

The men arrested were aged 23, 27 and 29.

The quiet North Manchester suburb was left in shock by the killing and the
threat of terror.

One resident said: "It's shocking something like this has happened here."

Graham Watson, Somerset-based leader of the Liberal Democrats in the European
Parliament, who pushed through the EU response on terrorism after September 11,
said in a statement: "Clearly these events show we cannot afford to relax our
guard on terrorism.

"They also show that we have to deal with the terrorist threat on an
international basis and not as one country alone."

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2003 Bristol United Press

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                January 15, 2003

Paramedics ready for terror attacks.

BYLINE: Glen Little

SECTION: Sport

LENGTH: 273 words



IT'S a chilling scene and one which Bolton paramedics hope will never happen.

One is pictured wearing a new space age suit to treat a patient in a
decontamination chamber -- in the event of a nuclear or chemical attack.

The yellow fluorescent suits, the first to be dispatched in the country, were
officially unveiled at Bury ambulance station.

Since September 11, the Government has provided more than GBP 9 million to equip
emergency workers in the event of a terrorist attack in the UK.

Paramedic David Cartwright, from Bolton, is in charge of training emergency
crews to use the new gear in readiness for the Commonwealth Games, when security
will be at its tightest.

The suits feature charcoal filters and a respirator to allow the wearer to
breathe clean air.

Paramedics can only stay in the suits for up to 20 minutes -- enough time to
deal with eight to 10 patients, says Mr Cartwright.

The costumes are designed to withstand lethal gases, chemicals and
radioactivity.

More than 150 suits have been sent to the region, with six Wigan and Bolton
paramedics chosen to start training staff in how to use them.

Mike Hynes, pictured wearing the costume, described the suit as warm but
comfortable -- although at more than six foot tall, he was having difficulty
seeing through his visor.

Communications manager John Williams said: "We have never had any suits before
and these are a first for the country. They are proving very popular with lots
volunteers coming forward to train.

"Every ambulance service and accident and emergency unit in the country is being
given suits following September 11."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           January 16, 2003, Thursday

PLAGUE THEFT SPARKS FEAR OF TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 141 words


TERROR experts fear that al-Qaeda could unleash bubonic plague after vials
containing the deadly disease were stolen.

More than 30 containers are missing from a university in Texas.

Staff at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Centre in Lubbock reported
the theft to police on Tuesday, although the vials had been missing for days.

Bubonic plague is an infectious disease of animals and humans. People usually
get it from being bitten by a rodent flea that is carrying the bacteria or by
handling an infected animal.

In Washington, FBI officials confirmed that they had sent agents to Lubbock.

White House spokesman Ari Fleischer said: "Officials have been briefed on the
plague reports."

Plague - which is fatal in 14 per cent of cases - is seen as a likely weapon to
be used in a biological terror attack.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Leigh Reporter

                                January 16, 2003

OAP gagged in terror attack

SOURCE: Leigh Reporter

LENGTH: 250 words


A PENSIONER was gagged and robbed by a man he let into his home.

Describing the attack as cowardly, police are appealing for witnesses following
the aggravated burglary at the home of the 66-year-old in Mealhouse Court, off
Fletcher Street, Atherton.

Some time between 6pm and 6.30pm on Friday, December 20, the victim was in his
house when he saw three men standing outside his window.

The man, thinking he recognised one of them, opened the door. Two of the men
walked away, but one came in.

Suddenly the visitor turned nasty, gagging the pensioner by pushing a
handkerchief into his mouth and stole his black wallet and £100. Before running
away the thief took back the hankerchief.

His victim was uninjured but left very badly shaken by his ordeal. The offender
is described as white, 20 to 35-years-old, of medium build, and spoke with a
local accent.

He had a chubby face, with bulging eyes, and a goatee beard. He was wearing a
black beanie hat with a white stripe, jeans, and a black padded jacket with a
hood.

Det Con Mark Sanderson of Leigh CID said: It is a terrifying experience to be
robbed in your own home. Thankfully the man was uninjured, but has been left
extremely shaken.

This was a very cowardly type of crime, especially given the age of the victim.

I would remind people living alone, especially pensioners, to check the identity
of any unexpected callers at their door. If you are in any doubt at all, do not
let the caller into your house.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                January 16, 2003

Tanzania steps up security on Zanzibar after warnings on terror attacks;

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 182 words


TANZANIA announced yesterday that it had stepped up security on its Zanzibar
island after the United States and Britain had warned their nationals that
extremists might be planning attacks in the archipelago.

"We will follow up any reports of people acting in a suspicious manner, be they
foreign or Tanzanian, and any elements that are thought to be colluding with
terrorists in Zanzibar, " said Zanzibar police Commissioner Khalid Iddi Nuizzan.

However, he added, police had no evidence of any particular violent extremist
group operating on the island.

Britain had earlier warned its citizens in Zanzibar to be especially careful in
public places such as hotels, restaurants, bars and shopping malls, echoing a US
warning last week to its citizens visiting this popular tourist destination.

Mr Nuizzan said that police patrols had been increased in public places such as
hotels and beaches and that they were on the lookout for any suspicious looking
characters.

Hotels on the island had also increased security and were employing extra guards
to reassure guests.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

               Copyright 2003 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            January 17, 2003, Friday

GUNPOINT RAPE TERROR IN CITY;
 SICKENING ATTACK ON 20-YEAR-OLD

BYLINE: HAYLEY CUTHBERTSON HORROR: The scene of the rape, and police officer DC
Caroline Porter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 319 words


A 20-YEAR-OLD woman was dragged into a Coventry city centre alleyway and raped
at gunpoint.

The attacker then tried to frogmarch his victim to a cashpoint to withdraw money
for him.

The sickening attack happened as the woman walked along Queen Victoria Road at
10.15pm yesterday.

Detectives say the woman was talking on her mobile phone when she was grabbed
from behind and dragged into a dead-end alleyway by a man with a small handgun.

Det Con Rich Huckvale, from Little Park Street CID, said the attacker forced the
woman to the ground, where he raped her.

He said: "He then led her from Queen Victoria Road towards the Skydome complex,
saying she had to withdraw money from a cashpoint for him."

But the distraught woman managed to run away from her attacker, and raised the
alarm with security guards at the Skydome.

Det Con Huckvale said: "Some of them did go out to search the area for the
attacker immediately and saw a man of that description.

"They gave chase but unfortunately lost him."

The victim is said to be extremely distressed by her ordeal.

She did not suffer any serious injuries but needed medical treatment following
the attack.

Forensic experts have combed the scene of the attack for potentially vital
evidence, and police were today beginning the task of sifting through extensive
CCTV footage of the area.

Det Con Huckvale is urging anyone who was in the area at that time last night to
contact police.

The attacker is described as white, aged about 20. He has distinctive scarring
from acne on his face, and gaps in his teeth. He wore dark clothing and a
baseball cap with a hood up to partially disguise his features.

Anyone with information is urged to contact CID on 024 7653 9082.

It is the second rape in the city centre this month. A 14-year-old girl was
attacked as people saw in the New Year opposite the Council House.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            January 17, 2003, Friday

YOU'VE LEARNT NOTHING FROM SEPTEMBER 11 TERROR ATTACKS;
 PROTESTERS BLAST ARROGANT' NUCLEAR INDUSTRY'S EMERGENCY PLAN

BYLINE: ERYL CRUMP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 529 words


ANTI-NUCLEAR campaigners have blasted proposals by a North Wales council to deal
with emergencies at a nuclear power station as being "flawed" and "too local in
nature". The Daily Post has discovered plans drawn up by Anglesey Council to
deal with incidents at Wylfa power station cover only a one mile radius from the
station, barely reaching the outskirts of Cemaes.

Information on what to do in an emergency will be issued in a bilingual calendar
sent to all households in this area. Noting that "the probability of a nuclear
emergency occurring is extremely remote" and that a nuclear reactor cannot cause
an explosion like an atomic bomb, the council's plan makes no reference to
terrorist attacks. Nuclear campaigner Dylan Morgan, of Pawb, People Against
Wylfa B, said: "This plan is flawed and insufficient. The nuclear industry in
their arrogance are not prepared to consider the effects of an accident at Wylfa
on the population of Anglesey and the rest of North Wales and beyond."
Environmental group Greenpeace is also concerned. Spokesman Jim Footner said:
"The one mile radius is shocking. This came from the HSE's but it should be the
absolute minimum radius. The council could have taken the initiative and chosen
to extend it. "The plan doesn't take into account any unforeseen circumstances
and makes the authority appear complacent about the safety of those people
living around the plant. "It appears they have taken no heed of the lessons
learned as a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks." North Wales Tory AM
Peter Rogers said: "The plan makes disturbing reading in view of it's gross
inadequacy; too much is left up to circumstances and too much seems vague and
confused. "A test of this plan needs to be carried out to iron out potential
problems. Hold ups due to confusion could have tragic results in the event of a
real emergency."

Anglesey council was given six months last July to draw up emergency plans to
deal with the consequences of incidents at the power station and make them
publicly available. Only a draft plan has been prepared and this has not been
implemented. A council spokesman said a period of consultation with stake
holders is being carried out and their comments are expected by the end of the
month.

He said: "The final draft document will then be presented to the executive
committee and copies made available in local libraries." Nuclear regulators have
played down the delay. A Health and Safety Executive spokesman said: "The
Nuclear Installations Inspectorate (NII) of the Health and Safety Executive are
content with the arrangements in place for preparing the plan.

Action plan...

Wylfa's Detailed Emergency Planning Zone covers an area just 1 mile radius from
the station The boundary can be extended to evacuate people up to two and a half
miles from the site and provide potassioum iodate tablets up to nine miles away
In the event of a nuclear emergency food and water supplies would be restricted
The main responsibility for dealing with the crisis would fall to the emergency
services Council chief officers would go to the emergency centre at police
headquarters in Colwyn Bay

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 17, 2003

WAR ON TERROR BRITISH ATTACKS LOOM AS DISCOVERY PUTS SADDAM IN BREACH OF UN
RESOLUTION WEAPON TEAMS FIND EMPTY CHEMICAL WARHEADS IN IRAQ BRINGING WAR A STEP
CLOSER; STASH OF TERROR

BYLINE: By John Ingham and Ben Sheppard

SECTION: NEWS; Pg.  11

LENGTH: 656 words


THE prospect of war with Iraq grew last night after UN inspectors found the
"smoking gun" of Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction.

They discovered 11 "undeclared" empty chemical warheads in "excellent" condition
while inspecting bunkers built in the late 1990s.

The warheads were designed to carry chemical weapons which could have been
unleashed on Allied forces in the event of a new Gulf War.

In the past, these warheads have carried the nerve agents sarin and VX of which
Iraq is known to have made more than 800 tonnes. Both agents inflict an
agonising death on victims.

A UN spokesman said: "It was a discovery. They were not declared."

The find - made after inspectors had spent weeks scouring Iraq without success -
puts Saddam in "material breach" of UN resolutions which would in itself justify
attacks by America and Britain.

Saddam published a massive manifesto of his arsenal last month but denied the
existence of terror weapons and made no mention of the chemical warheads.

Iraq last night denied that the warheads were part of any banned weapons
programme, insisting they had been for conventional use.

They were designed to be fitted to Soviet-style rockets with a range of up to 20
miles.

Tony Blair was informed of the discovery last night. And today he has crucial
talks with the head of the UN weapons inspectors, Hans Blix, at Chequers.

A Downing Street spokesman said:

"We note what the spokesman for the UN weapons inspectors has said about their
find. We await more information."

Earlier this week Mr Blair hinted that the inspectors would find evidence of
Saddam's illegal weapons programmes before their scheduled report on January 27.

Foreign Office Minister Mike O'Brien said:

"We have always said that Saddam has been concealing things. We will have to see
whether this falls into that particular category.

But it is time for Saddam to stop concealing and start complying."

Iraq's chief weapons scientist, General Hussam Amin, said: "These are empty
warheads.

There are no chemical or biological agents or weapons. They were in closed
wooden boxes that we had forgotten about."

The latest development comes after Britain and America passed intelligence to
the inspectors to help them beat Saddam's suspected attempts to hide weapons.

Andy Oppenheimer, consultant on chemical weapons for Jane's reference work,
said: "This is the first example of Iraq not managing to stay one step ahead of
the inspectors. It could be the start of a lot more discoveries of this nature.
So much chemical weaponry is unaccounted for in Iraq.

"But this is not a smoking gun unless the tests which will now be done on the
warheads prove that they were recently emptied of chemical material."

The 122mm warheads were found at the Ukhaider ammunition storage area 75 miles
south of Baghdad.

The UN team used portable X-ray equipment for a preliminary analysis of one of
the warheads and collected samples for chemical testing.

In a statement the inspectors said:

"The warheads were in excellent condition and were similar to ones imported by
Iraq during the late 1980s."

Last month the inspectors discovered a dozen artillery shells filled with
mustard gas, a weapon first used in the trenches of the First World War, that
had first been inventoried by their predecessors in the 1990s.

Saddam used banned chemical weapons, including sarin and VX, against Iranian
troops during the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war and against his own people in an attack
on the Kurds.

Britain and America dispute Saddam's claim last month to have destroyed
missiles, warheads and chemical agents.

Washington has cited nine areas in which it said Iraq's declaration fails to
give a complete picture of weapons.

These include thousands of pounds of unaccounted materials for producing
anthrax, and the chemical precursors for manufacturing mustard gas.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 18, 2003, Saturday

Tourists confused by warning of terrorist attacks in Tanzania

BYLINE: By PAUL MILES

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 601 words

Travellers with holidays booked to Tanzania and Zanzibar were thrown into
confusion this week after the Foreign Office issued a warning of possible
terrorist attacks on tourists.

Some potential visitors wanted to change their travel plans but most tour
operators to the East African country said trips would go ahead.

The FO advice stated: "We believe that Tanzania, including Zanzibar and the
Pemba Islands, is one of a number of countries in East Africa and the Horn of
Africa where there may be an increased terrorist threat.

"We have received information that an international terrorist group may be
planning an attack on the island of Zanzibar.

"British nationals in Tanzania, and especially in Zanzibar, should be vigilant,
particularly in public places frequented by foreigners, such as hotels,
restaurants, shopping malls, markets, bars and nightclubs."

The Foreign Office refused to give specific details of the threat and did not go
so far as to advise Britons to leave the country or to advise against travel. A
spokeswoman said: "The assessment that most visits to Tanzania are trouble-free
remains in force."

Some 75,000 British holidaymakers go to Tanzania each year, attracted by the
beaches, the game parks and Mount Kilimanjaro.

The last major terrorist incident in the predominantly Muslim country was in
1998, when eight people were killed in an attack on the US Embassy in Dar es
Salaam. In neighbouring Kenya, 15 people died in a bomb attack on a hotel near
Mombasa in November. Terrorists made an unsuccessful attempt to shoot down an
Israeli charter plane on the same day.

The FO advice, issued on Wednesday, came several days after the US State
Department gave a similar warning. Despite the advice, most British tour
operators and Tanzanian tour operators and airlines were proceeding with trips
and sticking to their normal booking conditions.

Tracy Griffin, 38, from London, who is due to go to Zanzibar and mainland
Tanzania on her honeymoon next month, said she had been told by British Airways:
"If we're still flying there, it's safe for you to go."

She was, nevertheless, anxious. "I don't want to spend my honeymoon worrying
about being widowed or blown up," she said. "I do not understand why we cannot
choose to fly somewhere else."

British Airways, which flies to Dar es Salaam, confirmed that it will not be
changing bookings for, or refunding money to, people with non-refundable
tickets. British Airways Holidays, which considers Zanzibar "a very small
destination", is maintaining standard cancellation fees.

A spokesman for the London-based adventure travel operator Exodus said that the
company had about 100 people booked to go to Zanzibar in the next two months and
a group there at the moment. The company is not offering alternatives. "No one
has been asking," said the spokesman, Paul Goldstein. "Our customers are made of
sterner stuff."

Some specialist operators such as Simply Tanzania, Sunvil Africa and Carrier are
offering customers alternatives at no extra cost if they are unhappy about
continuing with their holiday as planned.

In Zanzibar, the 10-roomed boutique hotel Emerson and Green has so far just had
one cancellation - from a British couple. "People should be a little cautious,
but I don't think there's a real threat," said the hotel's American owner,
Thomas Green.

Operators are unsure about the usefulness of the FO advice. Goldstein described
it as "over cautious" and "a cut-and-paste job".

A spokesman for the FO said its advice was based on the "latest information
available" and was under constant review.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 18, 2003

WATER BOSSES TAKE NOCHANCES AS FEARS GROW OF AN ATTACK; TERROR THREAT TO
RESERVOIRS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4 5

LENGTH: 545 words


WATER companies have been ordered urgently to improve security as fears grow of
an imminent poison attack by terrorists.

Power stations, transport companies and scores of other "soft targets" have also
been alerted to the chemical weapons threat following the discovery of a ricin
factory in London.

Home Office sources confirmed yesterday that "security work was ongoing at a
whole range of water plants across the United Kingdom" to combat the terrorist
menace.

Officers from MI5 have contacted every water company and the London Underground
to offer security advice.

In the south of England, where most of the supply is in underground reservoirs,
firms have been told to increase the number of checks on heavily-padlocked
access hatches.

Scottish Water has been ordered to build new perimeter fences around a reservoir
which supplies much of Glasgow's drinking water. MPs were told the measures at
the Mugdock Reservoir in Milngavie were for reasons of national security.

"We are regularly being updated by the security services on the threat posed by
terrorists and have told all staff to be extra vigilant, " said one water
company executive. "We know the threat is very real and are taking no chances."

A Thames Water spokesman said:

"We have certainly stepped up security at our sites. There was a review after
September 11 but with these latest episodes awareness has been raised." A
spokesman for Water UK, which represents all the companies, refused to give
details of security improvements but said: "We are in touch with the Government
at all times - we are on the case."

A security review was begun after September 11 when the chemical and biological
threat began to emerge, but the arrests of terror suspects in London,
Bournemouth and Manchester, where a policeman was stabbed to death, have given
added urgency.

Nuclear power stations and oil refineries are also part of the security review
along with hospitals and industrial plants, where radioactive material which
could be used for a "dirty bomb" is stored.

Rhodri Morgan, First Minister in Wales, confirmed that security had been
improved at Wylfa nuclear power station, Anglesey, and other "sensitive" sites.

In London, Underground bosses have told staff to cut overcrowding on station
platforms by holding more passengers above ground during rush hours to minimise
casualties in an attack involving nerve gas.

Routine tests on air being pumped into the network have been carried out by
British Transport Police since 1995. Tube bosses may also run an advertising
campaign to encourage passengers to be vigilant.

Terrorism expert Frank Barnaby, of the Oxford Research Group, said the most
serious threat came from a release of a nerve agent, such as sarin, soman or
tabun.

He said: "I am pretty certain there will be some sort of attack. These
fundamentalist groups have no moral constraints on the numbers they kill."

The number of asylum seekers coming to Britain would fall "dramatically" if
refugees were locked up, an expert claims.

Since detention was introduced for those arriving from 10 east European
countries in November, the flow of asylum seekers has eased significantly, said
John Tincey, of the Immigration Service Union.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 20, 2003, Monday

THE WAR ON TERROR: HIT AND RUN ATTACKS PLANNED;
 EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: SHAUN MILNE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 206 words


BRITISH forces deployed in the Gulf will spearhead a series of hit and run
special operations on Iraq, the Mirror has learned.

British and US generals believe this will be the key tactic in disabling Saddam
Hussein's military machine and achieving a swift conclusion to any war.

Senior intelligence, leaked to the Daily Mirror, explains that is why the number
of British troops being sent to the area is smaller than expected.

Only around 30,000 UK troops have been earmarked for battle - including two
Scottish regiments, The Royal Scots Dragoon Guards and the 1st Battalion, The
Black Watch, who help make up the 7th Armoured Brigade.

However military experts insist this compact force is also the most potent, and
will rely on them heavily to carry out some of the most daring raids against
Iraq.

Among the key targets will be seizing strategic airfields and ports, taking out
anti-aircraft batteries, radar posts and Republican Guard strongholds.

A Government source, speaking under condition of anonymity, told us: "If you
look at the size and make up of the British contingent, it becomes plain the
kind of operations they'll be involved in.

"They will play a very significant part in any action."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 20, 2003, Monday

TRIPLE ATTACK TERROR;
 COPS HUNT SEX PERV

BYLINE: JAMES TAIT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 293 words


POLICE are hunting a serial sex attacker who struck three times in one night.

The man's first victim was assaulted as she walked home in St Andrews in Fife
shortly after 10pm on Saturday.

The 20-year-old woman was molested by the attacker before managing to break free
from him.

Fifteen minutes later three 20-year-old women were stalked by the man as they
walked through the streets of the town.

And shortly after midnight a 21-year-old woman was indecently assaulted by the
twisted pervert in front of a young teenage boy.

Last night Fife Police appealed to the boy, who went to the woman's aid, to come
forward as they hunted the attacker.

A police spokesman said the teenager, who was aged between 12 and 15, spoke to
the frightened woman after the man fled, asking if she was okay.

Detective Sergeant Douglas Milton, who is leading the investigation, said: "I
would like to make a direct appeal to the boy to come forward as he may have
vital information."

DS Milton said all the victims gave the same description of their attacker.

He was described as aged between 17 to 20, about 5ft 9in tall, slim with fair
hair.

He was wearing a dark coloured hooded top with the hood up and baggy jeans.

The first attack happened on Nelson Street in the town, before the man was
spotted following the three girls from Lady Braes Lane to Queens Terrace.

The third incident happened in nearby Bridge Street.

DS Milton said: " Due to the close proximity of the incidents and the similarity
in both the assaults and the descriptions given of the culprit I believe the
same man is responsible.

"I would ask anyone who saw a male fitting this description in the town centre
area to get in touch as a matter of urgency."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                January 20, 2003

Reservoir Terror Attack Concerns

SECTION: News; 999; Terrorism; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 335 words


Security is being stepped up at reservoirs in South Wales in case of a chemical
attack by terrorists. Water companies, including Dwr Cymru, have been told to
improve their security measures to protect supplies of drinking water to
thousands of homes, schools and businesses.

In Italy over the weekend, police smashed a suspected al-Qaeda-linked terrorist
plot to poison water supplies with cyanide.

Detailed maps of the American Embassy's water system were discovered during a
police raid in Rome, when six Moroccans were arrested.

Four containers of cyanide were seized from a flat on the outskirts of the city.

Police, who also found maps of gas mains and other water installations,
suspected a terrorist gang was plotting to detonate some form of chemical bomb
in the water system.

And following the anti-terrorists raids in Manchester and London where traces
ofricin were found, power stations, transport companies and scores of other soft
targets are on high alert.

Many reservoirs in England are below ground but in South West Wales many are
open making them soft targets for terrorists.

Bosses at Dwr Cymru have stressed they have procedures to deal with
contamination of the public water supply and are working closely with the
Government to ensure necessary safety precautions are in place.

First Minister Rhodri Morgan has confirmed that security has been improved at
possible targets across the country.

An open reservoir in Scotland is being fenced off after being ordered to do so
by the Home Office.

Similar precautions could soon be taken here in South Wales.

A spokesman for Dwr Cymru said: ''We have regular discussions with the
Government regarding security and emergency planning.

''We have procedures in place to deal with any crisis or civil emergency,
including contamination of the public water supply.

''However, for security reasons we will not reveal the details of our
discussions with the Government or our emergency plans.'' Caption:

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 South Wales Evening Post

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 21, 2003

TERRORIST ATTACK ON BRITAIN IS INEVITABLE SAYS BLAIR

BYLINE: Joe Murphy;Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 168 words


AN al Qaeda terrorist attack on Britain is "inevitable", Tony Blair said today.

The Prime Minister also told a Commons committee that members of the terrorist
group were known to be in Iraq, and there was evidence that Saddam Hussein's
regime was weakening.

"I believe it is inevitable that they (al Qaeda) will try in some form or
other," Mr Blair said. "I think we can see evidence from the recent arrests that
the terrorist network is here as it is around the rest of Europe, around the
rest of the world."

Mr Blair described Saddam as "a unique threat" but said the dictator's regime
was not itself allied to al Qaeda. Mr Blair predicted the public would back a
war against Iraq if there were no other means of disarming Saddam. He told the
Committee he understood why people were worried at the prospect of another Gulf
war. But he insisted that, if he had to order troops in, the public would find
it "acceptable and satisfactory because there is no other route available to
us".


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 21, 2003

TERRORIST ATTACK ON BRITAIN IS INEVITABLE SAYS BLAIR

BYLINE: Joe Murphy;Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 1;2

LENGTH: 392 words


AN al Qaeda terrorist attack on Britain is "inevitable", Tony Blair warned today
for the first time.

The Prime Minister delivered the alarm call as he mounted his most robust
defence yet of preparations for war against Iraq.

He told a Commons committee of MPs there was "no way out" for the Iraqi leader,
declared that he must " co- operate or crumble", and asserted there was evidence
that Saddam's regime was "weakening" in the face of international pressure.

But it was Mr Blair's stark assessment of the terror threat against Britain that
sparked most alarm as he went further than ever before in giving a direct
warning. Questioned about al Qaeda's threat to Britain he replied: "I believe it
is inevitable that they will try in some form or other.

"I think we can see evidence from the recent arrests that the terrorist network
is here, as it is around Europe and the rest of the world."

Mr Blair's comments followed the arrests of a number of men after a police raid
on a north London

"factory" geared up to produce the toxic drug ricin.

In the past, ministers have been careful to couple warnings with reassurances
that there is no direct evidence of Britain being targeted.

In a marathon session with chairmen of Commons select committees, Mr Blair said
links between al Qaeda and Saddam's regime were only "loose". He added: "I think
it's important we show people the link between weapons of mass destruction and
these terrorist groups."

Mr Blair gave a strong defence of his stance on Iraq.

He appeared to suggest that some form of action was inevitable. He said: "I
believe the circumstances in which we will opt for conflict will be satisfactory
because the public accepts there is no other way to deal with it."

He also launched a powerful defence of his staunch alliance with US president
George Bush. Mr Blair declared: "America, for all its faults, is a force for
good."

The Prime Minister cited intelligence reports on Iraq, claiming Saddam's regime
was wobbling. He told MPs:

"There is evidence that they are weakening and rattled about the build-up of
forces." On the crucial question of whether there should be a fresh United
Nations security council mandate for an attack led by the US and Britain, Mr
Blair said such a course of action was and "highly "preferable"desirable".


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                January 21, 2003

Jail terror of woman cleared of glass attack

BYLINE: by martin dillon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 381 words


A WOMAN jailed for a glass attack says she wants to rebuild her life now that
her conviction has been overturned.

Michelle Moore wept as three judges ruled that her conviction was unsafe and
refused a re-trial.  She had been found guilty of attacking Rachel Franks in the
Square nightclub in Manchester in 2000.  She denied she was in the nightclub at
the time and said she was at her family-owned pub in Prestwich.  She served
seven weeks of her three-year sentence before being freed on bail last November
pending appeal.  London's Criminal Appeal Court decided her conviction was
"unsafe", following a number of mistakes by her defence team in relation to her
alibi.  Mr Justice Holman said the trial judge had given "impeccable" directions
to the jury about the considerable length of time before details of Miss Moore's
alibi were given to the prosecution. But since the trial, facts had emerged
relating to the alibi which would have made it "inconceivable" for the judge to
have summed up and directed the jury in the way he did had he known the new
details.  During her trial at Liverpool Crown Court, it emerged that when
arrested Miss Moore, 25, said she had been in the club that night but had not
seen or been involved in the incident.  But when she was questioned later, she
said she believed they were referring to the Friday night and not the Saturday
night when Rachel was glassed. Miss Moore, who has no previous convictions,
today spoke of her relief at the court's decision and her anger at the way
police conducted the investigation.  She said: " This has been going on for
nearly three years and I am just glad that it's all over.  Prison was a
terrifying experience and I was stuck in a cell knowing I was innocent.  I will
be seeking legal advice about what I have been through.

"I think it was disgusting what happened to Rachel, but the police investigation
was a shambles from day one and they never investigated my alibi. Now I just
want to start rebuilding my life." Miss Franks, who did not want to comment on
the court's decision, had picked Miss Moore out in an identity parade.  Miss
Franks needed 22 stitches for cuts to her face. The incident caused outrage and
led to the M.E.N. launching the Safe Glass Safe City initiative.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FREE . . . Michelle Moore has been cleared of glassing Rachel

                     Copyright 2003 Manchester Evening News

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           January 21, 2003, Tuesday

EMPLOYEES IN THE DARK ABOUT TERROR ATTACK ADVICE

BYLINE: BEVERLEY JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 431 words


WORKERS in Wales "don't have a clue" about what to do in the event of a sudden
terrorist attack, a survey has revealed.

Despite the possibility of war with Iraq, North Korea increasing its nuclear
weapons production and possible terrorist activities in London, research by the
GMB union has shown that most people still have no idea what to do in an
emergency.

An anonymous telephone survey of 1,082 companies in major UK cities included 74
in Wales and was carried out by the GMB between January 14 and 17 on a random
basis.

It targeted small, medium-sized and large office-based businesses, particularly
in Cardiff which could be primary targets for attack.

And it showed that most workplaces are "alarmingly unprepared".

# 88% of people in the city and 91% of people across Wales do not know what to
do in the event of an imminent or actual terrorist incident at or near their
workplace. Most have no idea if their firm has safety procedures in place.

# 81% of employees in Cardiff and 83% across Wales said they had no idea what
symptoms to look out for if they suspected a colleague had been exposed to a
hazardous biochemical agent.

# 83% of people across Wales and 87% in the capital did not know that, following
the anthrax postal scares in America after the World Trade Centre attack, the
government recommends that all post should be opened with a letter opener in
case biological agents are present.

# 91% in the capital and 93% in Wales did not know that employees are advised to
wash their hands after opening all mail.

The survey also shows that most are ignorant of advice given out by the Health
and Safety Executive and the Government's Civil Contingencies Secretariat
regarding a terrorist incident.

GMB regional secretary Kevin Curran said the research shows workers are
"alarmingly unprepared" and added that this does not reflect well on employers.

"The survey confirms our greatest fears that employees are completely in the
dark about good practise," he said.

"Employees have told us they haven't a clue what the Government advice is. They
are demanding to know but it seems that nobody has bothered to tell them."

He added that even official Government information is not always easy to come
by.

"Regrettably, if we suffer a terrorist attack the likelihood is that most people
will be at work when it happens.

"Yet this survey shows that employees are not being properly briefed on
practical steps to take and the government is failing in its duty to inform
people about even the most basic precautions."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2003 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          January 22, 2003, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: BLAIR WARNS AL QAIDA ATTACK ON UK IS 'INEVITABLE'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 195 words


Prime Minister Tony Blair said it was 'inevitable' the al Qaida network will try
to attack Britain.

There were 'no limits' to the potential threat and the UK could not avoid
becoming a target by keeping out of the war on terror or declining to join
military action in Iraq, he said.

In a warning delivered as thousands of British troops deployed to the Gulf, he
told MPs: 'We are going to be in the front line of this whatever happens.'

Britain could spend billions of pounds on protective measures without being able
to thwart a terror attack, he told the House of Commons Liaison Committee. The
security and intelligence services were Britain's first line of defence, he
said.

Asked if there was certain to be an al Qaida attack on the UK, he said: 'I think
it's inevitable that they will try in some form or other and I think we can see
evidence from the recent arrests that the terrorist network is here, as it is
around the rest of the world.'

'That is why I think there is no point in us thinking - and I don't think it is
actually particularly in the British character to think - well, let's go to the
back of the queue and hide away.'

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                January 22, 2003

TERRORIST ATTACK INEVITABLE - BLAIR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 175 words


ARMED police raided a London mosque after a tip that it was the base for an
al-Qaida gang plotting a major attack.

The shock revelation came yesterday as Tony Blair grimly warned that a terror
strike on Britain is "inevitable".

He told MPs: "We are going to be in the front line of this, whatever happens."

The Prime Minister spoke out as it emerged that a leading Algerian terror
suspect arrested in France has turned "supergrass" and given spy chiefs details
of a string of gangs living in Britain.

French and US agents now believe Libyan and Tunisian terrorists may be working
on plots to cause September 11style carnage in Britain.

Algerian extremists have flocked to Britain in the last few years to escape a
crackdown by France.

Mr Blair warned MPs it is only a matter of time until a terror gang strikes
here.

He said: "I believe it is inevitable that they will try in some form or other.

"We can see evidence from the recent arrests that the terrorist network is here
as it is around the rest of Europe."

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 Express Newspapers

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                January 22, 2003

TERRORIST ATTACK IS INEVITABLE SAYS BLAIR

BYLINE: by DAVID PAUL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 521 words


ARMED police raided a London mosque after a tip that it was the base for an
al-Qaida terror gang plotting a major attack.

The shock revelation came yesterday as Tony Blair grimly warned that an al-Qaida
strike on Britain is "inevitable".

The Prime Minister told MPs: "We are going to be in the front line of this,
whatever happens."

He spoke out as it emerged that a leading Algerian terror suspect arrested in
France has turned "supergrass" and given spy chiefs details of a string of gangs
living in Britain.

French and US agents now believe Libyan and Tunisian terrorists may be working
on plots to cause September 11-style carnage in Britain.

Algerian extremists have flocked to Britain in the last few years to escape a
crackdown by France.

Spy bosses say some may have been trained to use and handle chemical and
biological weapons at terrorist training camps in Afghanistan.

Whistleblower Merouane Ben Ahmed is reported to have links with ruthless Chechen
fighters in the former Soviet Union, Algerian extremist groups and al-Qaida
supporters.

In the raid on the Finsbury Park mosque in north London police discovered a stun
gun, an imitation gun, a CS gas cannister, plus forged passports, identity
documents and credit cards.

It is believed the GCHQ spy base at Cheltenham, Glos, had been monitoring
e-mails sent to and from computers at the mosque.

Sheikh Abu Hamza, who runs the Finsbury Park mosque, yesterday said: "It is
disgusting if people have been breaking the sanctity of the mosque by bringing
these things here.

"I just go there on Fridays and Sundays to preach. I don't know who is there.
They could be my enemies. There are people who want to shoot me.

"And there are Algerian agents who want us to fall out with the British
Government. The items could have been planted there."

Egyptian-born Hamza, who is wanted on terrorist charges in Yemen, said he was
happy for the police to keep the mosque under surveillance.

He added: "The last thing we want to do is fall out with the people or
Government of this country."

Last night the seven men arrested at the mosque were still being held under
anti-terror laws.

Six, aged 23 to 48, are from north Africa, the other is a 22-year-old from
eastern Europe.

An Algerian among them is said to be a key al-Qaida figure who was being hunted
by MI5.

Meanwhile Mr Blair warned MPs on the House of Commons Liaison Committee that
Government officials have told him it is probably only a matter of time until a
terror gang strikes here.

He said: "I believe it is inevitable that they will try in some form or other.

"We can see evidence from the recent arrests that the terrorist network is here
as it is around the rest of Europe, around the rest of the world."

The human flood

AROUND 110,000 asylum seekers arrived in the UK last year - up from 92,000 in
2001 and 104,000 in 2000. But only one in four of those who were refused asylum
were then deported.

Roughly four in 10 of the total arriving get Government permission to stay in
Britain, either permanently or for several years.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 Express Newspapers

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 22, 2003

WE PLOTTED IRA BLASTS IN LONDON;
Terrorists admit role in attacks on Ealing and BBC TV centre

BYLINE: Paul Cheston

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 338 words


TWO MEN today admitted that they plotted to blow up London targets as part of a
Real IRA bombing campaign.

James McCormack, 34, and John Hannan, 19, pleaded guilty at the Old Bailey to
conspiring with others to cause explosions likely to endanger life and property
in Britain or the Irish Republic in 2001.

They were responsible for the car bombs detonated outside the BBC and in Ealing
Broadway and a device which failed to explode in Birmingham, the court heard.

It was "nothing short of a miracle" that innocent people were not killed by the
home-made explosives attached to timing devices, the jury was told.

Three other alleged terrorists, Robert Hulme, 23, Noel Maguire, 34, and Aiden
Hulme, 26, today denied taking part in the plot. Robert Hulme and Maguire also
pleaded not guilty to further charges of possessing explosives, a Smith & Wesson
revolver and ammunition with intent to endanger life.

Orlando Pownall QC, prosecuting, told the court that the guilty pleas showed
that the plot existed but did not prove that the three other defendants were
also guilty.

However, he said that Robert Hulme and Maguire could be linked to the handgun,
grenade, live and spent ammunition and detonators and timing devices identical
to the Birmingham car bomb which were found in a car parked outside a farmhouse
in Yorkshire.

"All three of these defendants were involved with others in a Real IRA bombing
campaign on the mainland and were members of an active cell responsible for the
detonation of three car bombs," said Mr Pownall. "They were detonated in March
2001 outside the BBC in Shepherd's Bush, in August that year in Ealing Broadway
and, in a device which did not go off, in November in Smallbrook, Queensway,
Birmingham."

Mr Pownall added: "There can be no doubt the same group of people was involved
and responsible for each device. It was nothing short of a miracle that no
pedestrians or

others in clubs and pubs nearby did not suffer fatal injuries."

The case continues.


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PLOT: MCCORMACK, LEFT, AND HANNAN IN COURT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                January 22, 2003

Workers 'in dark over coping with UK terror attacks'

BYLINE: by ian craig

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 356 words



WORKERS IN north west firms are "in the dark" about protecting themselves
against a terrorist threat, says a major union leader.  New statistics suggest
that 86 per cent of employees were unaware that the government says that all
mail should be opened with a letter opener and 93 per cent did not know they
should wash their hands after opening mail.  The claim comes after police chiefs
warned that supporters of terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden have wormed their
way into British rebel groups and may be plotting a major attack here.  The
northern regional boss of the GMB union, Kevin Curran, favourite to succeed John
Edmonds as leader of the union, today published new statistics which suggest
that British employees are "alarmingly" unprepared for terrorist attacks.

Employees from across business took part in the survey, which sought to reveal
their knowledge of what to do in the event of a terrorist attack in the
workplace.  The survey, which covers all regions of the UK, also showed that 89
per cent of UK employees have no idea of what symptoms to look out for, if they
suspect a colleague has become exposed to a biological or chemical agent and 92
per cent do not know what to do if a terrorist incident takes place in the
workplace.

Commenting on the findings, Mr Curran said the survey confirmed their worst
fears - that employees are completely in the dark about good practice.
"Employees have told me that they don't have a clue what the government's advice
is. They are demanding to know, but it seems that nobody has bothered to tell
them. "I am today calling on the government to be much more up-front and honest
with employees. "We need clear guidance for how companies should look after the
health and safety of their workforce," added Mr Curran. "Regrettably, if we
suffer another terrorist attack the likelihood is that most people will be at
work, when it happens. "Yet our survey shows that employees are not being
properly briefed on practical steps to take. "The government is failing in its
duty to inform people about even the most basic precautions," added the union
boss.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2003 Manchester Evening News

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               PR Newswire Europe

                           January 22, 2003 Wednesday

Safeguard against terrorist attacks and gain tax benefits

LENGTH: 325 words


The Prime Minister has acknowledged that it is now inevitable that terrorists
will try to attack Britain in the near future.

Given the uncertainty and fear which currently pervade British life, many
businesses and consumers are preparing for the worst by investing in
unprecedented security measures.

According to tax partner George Bull at accountancy firm Baker Tilly, much of
this investment can offer significant tax reliefs, whether security measures are
adopted by a business on behalf of key personnel or whether they are adopted by
individual consumers.

"The Inland Revenue will grant tax relief where employment exposes an employee
to a very real threat to their physical safety from terrorists, extremists and
others who may resort to violence," explained Bull. "In the past, this has
usually applied to personnel in multi-nationals or the diplomatic corps posted
to politically unstable locations. However, given how the world has changed
since 9/11, it is entirely possible that this tax relief will now be claimed by
people in the UK. Similarly, a business can also claim tax relief if it provides
at-risk personnel with home security assets like alarm systems, bullet resistant
windows, floodlights, reinforced doors and windows and perimeter walls and
fences."

"Partnerships and sole traders also benefit from legislation which enables them
to claim capital allowances on assets provided for their security, or for the
security of one or more members of a partnership," said Bull.

Current legislation also allows for tax relief on VIP bodyguards and for the
provision of bullet-proof vests, if there is a very real threat to the
recipients' safety. Personal alarms may also qualify for tax relief, for some
employees.

"The Inland Revenue specifically excludes cars, ships or aircraft from these tax
reliefs, so celebrities will have to pay in full if they want to travel in
armoured safety," explained Bull.Baker Tilly

CONTACT:

George Bull is available for interview on: +44 [0]207 413 5169 / 5424; mobile:
+44 [0]7767 607 726.

Sarah Browse / Karen Croft, Baker Tilly, Direct lines: +44 [0]20 7413 5344 /
5224

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 PR Newswire Europe Limited

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                January 22, 2003

Blades fans in attack terror

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 394 words


SHEFFIELD United fans dived for cover as thugs pelted their coaches with bricks
after last night's semi-final against Liverpool.

Four coaches were damaged on the way home from Anfield and one fan needed
hospital treatment for a head injury after the window of his coach was put
through.

And a 16-year-old Blades supporter was rushed to hospital after his front teeth
were knocked out at The Arkles pub near the ground.

Fans said trouble erupted an hour before the Worthington Cup match when 60
Liverpool supporters stormed a pub full of United supporters on Anfield Road.

James McKenna, 22, from Parsonage Street, Walkley, said: The pub was just full
of United fans, singing. The actor Ray Ashcroft had been in there, and everyone
from the official supporters' coaches was coming in.

Then all of a sudden a big roar went up, the windows started coming through, I
got pushed over.

There was a stand-off at the door with Liverpool fans with bottles trying to get
in. It was scary.

Actor Ray Ashcroft, who left to go to another pub before the trouble started,
said: It seemed such a good atmosphere. The United fans were singing, and they
were quite loud, but it seemed a really convivial atmosphere.

Lifelong Blades fan Albert Chrimes, a steward at Bramall Lane for 12 years, was
on board one of the coaches damaged as it drove away from the match.

He said: It was very bad, and had obviously been planned in advance.

Some people in a silver BMW pulled up in front of the coaches and got out,
taunting supporters to FROM PAGE ONE

get off the bus and come and have a battle with them.

My coach was full of young teenagers and married couples, so thankfully there
were no takers.

Martin Byrne of Nottingham coach firm Dunn-Line blamed a lack of police escort
out of the ground, and said the damage would cost £7,000 to repair.

Merseyside Police have not taken the right amount of care, and we are left
paying the price, he said.

Mr Chrimes, aged 57, from Arbourthorne, Sheffield, added: Coaches behind ours
were stoned. A window was broken and it had to be pushed out completely in order
for their journey home to continue.

Mr Chrimes has compiled a report into the trouble, which erupted following
United's 2-0 Worthington Cup semi-final defeat.

Police made only one arrest - that of a man aged 28 from Merseyside.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           January 23, 2003, Thursday

WEBSITE TO ADVISE ON CHEMICAL TERROR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 127 words


HEALTH staff on bio-terror alert have a new ally in accessing information on the
effects of chemical weapons.

The University of Warwick has launched a new web page to flag up symptoms and
treatments in the event of a suspected deliberate release of hazardous toxins.

The site has been set up following concerns about the possibility of a terrorist
attack involving chemical or biological agents.

Dr Matthew Cooke, senior clinical lecturer in emergency care, said: "The website
is increasingly seen as the first place emergency care staff look when needing
clinical or managerial information on new developments."

The electronic library's home page is www.nelh-ec.warwick.ac.uk and the link to
the terror agent webpage can be found there.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                January 23, 2003

Workers Not Ready For Terror Attack

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 204 words


Employees are unprepared for possible terrorist attacks, according to a new
survey by the GMB. The union questioned 1,000 firms about the action they have
taken to make sure tasks like opening post are safe.

It found that 87 per cent of employees in the South West are unaware that the
Government recommends all post be opened with a letter opener.

A total of 93 per cent in the South West didn't know that the Government
advisesemployees to wash their hands after opening post. And 90 per cent said
they did not know the procedures to follow if a terrorist incident were to take
place in the workplace.

Kevin Curran of the GMB said: "The current situation is completely
unacceptable.The Cabinet Office have squirrelled away their safety
recommendations on anotherwebsite, but how many employers and employees are
aware that this website even exists? "Regrettably, if we suffer another
terrorist attack, the likelihood is that most people will be at work when it
happens, yet employees are not being properly briefed on practical steps to
take. The Government is failing in its duty to inform people about even the most
basic precautions." The Government's website is at www.ukresilience.info
Caption:

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Leigh Reporter

                                January 23, 2003

OAP gagged in terror attack

SOURCE: Leigh Reporter

LENGTH: 250 words


A PENSIONER was gagged and robbed by a man he let into his home.

Describing the attack as cowardly, police are appealing for witnesses following
the aggravated burglary at the home of the 66-year-old in Mealhouse Court, off
Fletcher Street, Atherton.

Some time between 6pm and 6.30pm on Friday, December 20, the victim was in his
house when he saw three men standing outside his window.

The man, thinking he recognised one of them, opened the door. Two of the men
walked away, but one came in.

Suddenly the visitor turned nasty, gagging the pensioner by pushing a
handkerchief into his mouth and stole his black wallet and £100. Before running
away the thief took back the hankerchief.

His victim was uninjured but left very badly shaken by his ordeal. The offender
is described as white, 20 to 35-years-old, of medium build, and spoke with a
local accent.

He had a chubby face, with bulging eyes, and a goatee beard. He was wearing a
black beanie hat with a white stripe, jeans, and a black padded jacket with a
hood.

Det Con Mark Sanderson of Leigh CID said: It is a terrifying experience to be
robbed in your own home. Thankfully the man was uninjured, but has been left
extremely shaken.

This was a very cowardly type of crime, especially given the age of the victim.

I would remind people living alone, especially pensioners, to check the identity
of any unexpected callers at their door. If you are in any doubt at all, do not
let the caller into your house.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                January 23, 2003

Terror Attacks: Wales Is Ready

SECTION: News; Business; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 165 words


Wales is preparing to cope with possible terrorist attacks provoked by war with
Iraq, Business Minister Carwyn Jones has told the Assembly. Former Plaid Cymru
president Dafydd Wigley had suggested Wales was not ready to deal with the
consequences of any conflict, which included an increased terrorist threat.

But Mr Jones said emergency plans were in place and the Assembly Government was
always looking to update them.

A special joint working group with the Welsh Local Government Association had
been set up this week to co-ordinate emergency planning across the
principality,he added.

"We understand the importance of ensuring that fuel supplies are not disrupted,
and that public health services are preserved and are able to function
normally," said Mr Jones.

He was not able to reveal the full extent of plans for security reasons but
assured the Assembly they were comprehensive.

Mr Jones added: "We are confident the plans in place are adequate.'' Caption:

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 South Wales Evening Post

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Star (Sheffield)

                                January 23, 2003

Blades fans in attack terror

SOURCE: The Star (Sheffield)

LENGTH: 394 words


SHEFFIELD United fans dived for cover as thugs pelted their coaches with bricks
after last night's semi-final against Liverpool.

Four coaches were damaged on the way home from Anfield and one fan needed
hospital treatment for a head injury after the window of his coach was put
through.

And a 16-year-old Blades supporter was rushed to hospital after his front teeth
were knocked out at The Arkles pub near the ground.

Fans said trouble erupted an hour before the Worthington Cup match when 60
Liverpool supporters stormed a pub full of United supporters on Anfield Road.

James McKenna, 22, from Parsonage Street, Walkley, said: The pub was just full
of United fans, singing. The actor Ray Ashcroft had been in there, and everyone
from the official supporters' coaches was coming in.

Then all of a sudden a big roar went up, the windows started coming through, I
got pushed over.

There was a stand-off at the door with Liverpool fans with bottles trying to get
in. It was scary.

Actor Ray Ashcroft, who left to go to another pub before the trouble started,
said: It seemed such a good atmosphere. The United fans were singing, and they
were quite loud, but it seemed a really convivial atmosphere.

Lifelong Blades fan Albert Chrimes, a steward at Bramall Lane for 12 years, was
on board one of the coaches damaged as it drove away from the match.

He said: It was very bad, and had obviously been planned in advance.

Some people in a silver BMW pulled up in front of the coaches and got out,
taunting supporters to FROM PAGE ONE

get off the bus and come and have a battle with them.

My coach was full of young teenagers and married couples, so thankfully there
were no takers.

Martin Byrne of Nottingham coach firm Dunn-Line blamed a lack of police escort
out of the ground, and said the damage would cost £7,000 to repair.

Merseyside Police have not taken the right amount of care, and we are left
paying the price, he said.

Mr Chrimes, aged 57, from Arbourthorne, Sheffield, added: Coaches behind ours
were stoned. A window was broken and it had to be pushed out completely in order
for their journey home to continue.

Mr Chrimes has compiled a report into the trouble, which erupted following
United's 2-0 Worthington Cup semi-final defeat.

Police made only one arrest - that of a man aged 28 from Merseyside.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 25, 2003, Saturday

TERROR RAIDS FOIL MAJOR ATTACK ON EUROPE'

BYLINE: ELIZABETH NASH IN MADRID AND JASON BENNETTO

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 500 words


FEARS GREW yesterday that al-Qa'ida terrorists are preparing to launch a series
of attacks on soft targets across Europe after Spain said it foiled "a major
attack".

Police arrested some 16 suspected members of an Algerian cell linked to Osama
bin Laden in pre-dawn raids on 12 apartments in Barcelona, Girona and nearby
towns in north-eastern Spain.

The operation was run in close co-ordination with British and French
intelligence. MI5 has passed information on the London ricin gang and a wider
network of Algerian terrorist who have been developing chemical weapons in the
UK.

Spanish police said they found large quantities of chemical and explosive
material - including time-switches, remote control detonaters and barrels of
suspicious resin. They are also reported to have found manuals of chemical
warfare and electronic circuits, and electronic equipment for forging documents
and cloning credit cards as well as powerful radio transmitters.

Spanish authorities were quick to link the raids to the recent discovery of the
deadly poison ricin in a north London flat occupied by Algerians.

Jose Maria Aznar, Spain's Prime Minister, claimed the arrests represented a
breakthrough in the war against terror. "The network we have dismantled had
connections with terrorists recently arrested in France and the United Kingdom.
They were preparing attacks with explosives and with chemical material," he
said.

Several suspects were freed yesterday, and the rest brought to Madrid for
questioning. The operation, he said, had "dismantled a network of terrorists
linked to al-Qa'ida, and in this case the Salafistas". The Salafista Group of
Preaching and Combat (GSPC) is a breakaway from Algeria's radical Armed Islamic
Group (GIA).

The Spanish operation followed similar raids by Italian police near Venice on
Wednesday in which explosives and maps of Nato bases and London Underground were
discovered.

Authorities said the suspects detained in Spain were believed to have passed
through al-Qa'ida training camps in Afghanistan or Chechnya.

Four terror suspects arrested recently in France had visited Spain and had
contacts with the network in Catalonia, according to Angel Acebes, the Interior
Minister.

Yesterday's operation was initiated some 18 months ago when Spain's High Court
authorised telephones to be tapped, and was related to security operations in
Britain and France, sources said.

But British anti-terrorist sources said that it looked increasingly likely that
the people arrested were involved in organised crime, rather than terrorism.

The international operations reflect the close working relationship between
European intelligence agencies, as well as the diversity of a threat from the
loose-knit al-Qa'ida network.

Meanwhile, Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch is continuing to question four
men in London who were arrested at a mosque in Finsbury Park, and a fifth terror
suspect about the makeshift ricin laboratory.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 26, 2003

Observer Magazine: Life: HEALTH: Raising a false alarm: Warnings of bombs, gas
attacks and terrorist plots feed irrational fears but, reports Anna Moore,the
stress induced is real enough

BYLINE: Anna Moore

SECTION: Observer Magazine Pages, Pg. 85

LENGTH: 1270 words


I'm not sure when it started. Maybe back in November with the Home Office
warning of dirty bombs and poison-gas attacks - later withdrawn for fear of
scaring us witless.

Or perhaps it was Tony Blair's New Year message. Or the stories of cyanide
attacks on the tube, the ricin reports, or the fact that 'frontline workers'
have been vaccinated for smallpox. . .

Whatever it was, at some point, I began to fixate. I imagined being in the house
with my two children and learning that a radioactive bomb, smallpox, Ebola -
something - had been released in London (where we happen to live). What would I
do? Put them in the car and head out? But the roads would be packed solid. And
how would I beat the blockades?

I became obsessed. The stories on terrorism were the only ones I read. I awoke
expecting an attack each day and went to bed dreading tomorrow. I couldn't talk
or think about anything else, stopped working (what was the point when money
would soon be meaningless?) and let the children watch as many videos as they
wanted (each day might be their last). I felt sick all the time and told my
husband I wanted to move to the country immediately.

You're probably thinking I must have been neurotic to begin with, but, really, I
was previously considered relatively sane. I've taken risks, worked and
travelled alone in Bangladesh. I met my husband in Bosnia during the war. My
children have had the MMR vaccine and we don't even have a 'Baby on Board'
sticker on our Renault. So why was I paralysed with fear while friends and
family seemed able to carry on as normal, listening to warnings of imminent
death and al-Qaida spectaculars, then filing them away so they could concentrate
on Les Dennis and Amanda Holden/Brian Aldridge/the mid-season transfer window?

In search of reason, I rang Professor Robert Edelmann, a consultant psychologist
specialising in anxiety disorder, who first explained that fears like mine are
rarely rational. Some years ago, a study sought to determine which single word
elicited the greatest fear response in people, and the answer was 'shark' -
something few of us will ever see. Likewise, why are so many people rendered
helpless by a spider, yet are happy to yabber on the mobile during the school
run?

Following 11 September, an increase in patients presenting to GPs with stress,
sleeplessness and depression occurred simultaneously with a sharp rise in sales
of alcohol and cigarettes. So while we all feared the (statistically unlikely)
possibility of being killed by a terrorist, we chose to increase the (far more
likely) possibility of smoking and drinking ourselves to death. It's odd.

'It's partly the way the messages are given,' says Edelmann. 'When you think of
the billions of people in the world, the numbers who are killed by terrorist
activity is very small. If the government and the media put the same emphasis on
the number of people killed each day on the road, we might be too petrified to
get into our cars.'

Dr Michael Reddy, clinical psychologist and chairman of the Independent
Counselling and Advisory Services (Icas) which has worked with victims of major
aviation disasters and IRA attacks, agrees. 'How many times must we watch those
towers being hit by the planes?' he asks. 'I wonder how many people are mildly
traumatised each time those pictures are burned on the back of their retinas?'

Media coverage and government warnings aside, there are two other factors which
give these particular fears that added edge. 'The first factor, which forms a
large component of fear, is our lack of control,' says Edelmann. 'If we're
driving our car at 100mph, we assume we're in control, but you can't prepare for
a terrorist attack.'

Alongside that is our total absence of knowledge. 'Anxiety is > < always
increased by uncertainty,' he continues. 'This might explain our fear of
spiders, which can move very fast without warning. In the case of terrorism,
it's the not knowing where it's coming from. It could happen any time, anywhere,
to anybody. But the chances are, it probably won't.'

Statistically, that may be so, but still, I'm shocked by how quickly my
obsession took hold. Edelmann assures me this is not uncommon. 'It's very easy
to focus on the negative, to pick out and seize on it, so we become trapped in
that spiral of anxiety,' he says.

How bad can it be? 'Disabling,' he replies. The body's physical reactions to
fear include increased heart rate, tightened muscles, nausea, tremors and
diarrhoea, while constant anxiety may cause depression, sleeplessness and
withdrawal. In a clinical context, patients are considered suitable for
treatment when their condition prevents them living a normal life.

According to Edelmann, and Reddy, and every significant study of fear and
anxiety, women are far more likely to be sufferers than men. 'There may be a
biological predisposition - women are more sensitive by nature,' says Edelmann.
'For that reason, I'd always choose a woman doctor or a woman dentist. Then
there is learning - boys learn that "men don't cry" but keep a "stiff upper
lip". Women are happier to express their fears.'

Parenthood also makes you far more frightened. 'We're all far more anxious about
our children than we are about ourselves,' says Dr Reddy. And there's a
generational factor - those born after the Second World War have no coping
mechanisms for the dangers we are now being told to consider. Dr Reddy, however,
does remember it: 'When the Germans developed a rocket which was truly
terrifying, we all felt a new sense of helplessness and vulnerability,' he says.
'It took a couple of years to adjust to living in a more dangerous world, by
being a little bit more fatalistic. This is happening now. We're getting used to
the idea of living on a war footing. Some of us may take a very risk-aversive
view and buy a croft in the Highlands, but the vast majority will settle down
and become tougher and more hard-headed.'

For those having difficulty making the adjustment, Dr Reddy recommends a lot of
talking. 'Being told to forget about it is not as helpful as trying to explore
it with someone. You need to think positively and change the direction of your
thoughts with simple logic.

'The world is a far safer place than it was on 10 September 2001,' he reasons.
'Security precautions, the protections we have in place, our knowledge of
al-Qaida, and the damage done to that network, all mean we actually have less to
fear than we did a year ago. That is fact.'

Also, says Reddy, your sense of helplessness can be eased by doing something -
any tiny thing which you believe may make the world safer from terrorism.
(Donating to Afghanistan? Marching for peace?) Taking personal responsibility is
always empowering.

So what helped me? All of the above - the appliance of reason, the weight of
probability, and a healthy dash of fatalism. Plus a few other things. I checked
my bank balance and found I'd been spending money like there was no tomorrow
(only on my children, so they enjoyed their final days), and now needed to start
earning. The final test came when my husband announced that if I was really
serious about leaving London, we could rent our house out and move to the sea.

It seemed so easy, I no longer felt trapped, and turned the prospect over -
before dismissing it as much too risky. Wasn't Dover recently placed on high
alert? Weren't six ricin suspects arrested in Bournemouth? And what else happens
outside London? Car crashes on country lanes. Meningitis outbreaks. Superbugs.
Leave London? Far too dangerous. OM


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 27, 2003

LEADER AS FEAR OF TERRORIST ATTACKS SENDS SHARE PRICES TUMBLING . . .; PANIC IN
THE CITY IS A DISASTER FOR US ALL

BYLINE: SIMON HINDE

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 766 words


THE stock market, and the people who work in it, are not as rational as they
would like us to think. In the late Nineties they were dazzled by the fool's
gold of dotcom outfits and drove prices up to levels that bore no relationship
to the state of the economy.

Now the opposite is happening. The City is in a panic and share prices have
fallen for an unprecedented 10 successive days, losing nine per cent of their
value in a fortnight. A second landmark is looming: if the market drops a
further 139 points it will have fallen by half in a little more than three
years.

Make no mistake: this is a catastrophic market collapse. There were only four
similar crashes in the whole of the 20th century - three in the Twenties and
Thirties and the worst during the oil crisis of the Seventies.

It is little short of a disaster for millions of ordinary families, who can only
watch powerlessly as the pinstriped panic erodes the value of pensions,
endowment mortgages, unit trusts, Isas, Peps and shares. It will be years before
pensions and investments return to their 1999 values - if, indeed, such peaks
are ever scaled again.

It could be calamitous for Gordon Brown, too, putting at risk the Chancellor's
carefullylaid plans for the regeneration of our public services.

Nobody knows how much further there is to fall. A few months ago, there was
guardedly optimistic talk in the City that the bottom had finally been reached:
a 500-point stock market rally led some to declare that the bad times were over.
Now many fear that the market may be on the brink of an even deeper abyss.

The collapse of the past 10 days isn't a reflection of the state of the economy.

Certainly things have been rocky for more than a year but there are some
tentative signs that the worst may be over.

It's not about the looming prospect of war with Iraq either - not entirely, at
any rate.

Hard-faced City types tend to greet wars with equanimity. They simply switch
their money out of airlines and travel firms and into arms companies and sit
tight, fingers crossed for the victory that invariably brings a boost to the
economy of the winning side.

This time it is different. On September 11, when Al Qaeda terrorists piloted two
aeroplanes into the World Trade Center, they struck a blow at the heart of
global capitalism. The West suddenly faced the realisation that its enemies had
the power to wreak destruction on a massive scale.

The nightmare scenario terrifying the markets is that, should Britain and
America go to war against Iraq, it will draw down on our heads fire from
militant Islamic terrorists. A chemical or nuclear attack on Britain - with the
City itself high on the list of potential targets - could claim hundreds of
lives and precipitate a global economic crisis.

The recent discovery of a ricin factory in London and the arrest of suspected
terrorists in Britain, Italy and Spain has added to the hysteria in the markets.
All sensible people are troubled by the heightened danger from terrorists - but
we manage to get on with our lives. The reaction in the City, however, has been
barely-controlled panic in which fear feeds upon fear.

Once financial institutions became convinced that there was a real danger - even
if a remote one - of a terror attack causing economic turmoil, it was in their
interests to sell shares as soon as possible. The more they sold, the faster
prices fell - prompting the very crisis the City feared.

This downward spiral is difficult to reverse and terribly damaging to the
nation's finances. Treasury projections for 2003 were based on the assumption
that the stock market would go up. Even then, the Government forecast that it
would have to borrow GBP 20 billion this tax year and GBP 24 billion in
2003-2004 to finance investment in public services.

FALLING share prices will mean that less money than expected comes in as tax and
this week the Institute for Fiscal Studies, a respected economic think tank,
will warn of a "black hole" in the Chancellor's financial plans. This is not yet
a disaster and is unlikely to derail Mr Brown's forthcoming Budget but the IFS
believes it could force him to raise taxes in future years - something the
Chancellor will be anxious to avoid as an election gets closer.

Mr Brown has handled the economy with skill and assurance and it will be a
bitter blow to him if his plans are disrupted by a market panic over which he
has no control. Along with millions of investors and pensionscheme members, he
will be praying that the City comes to its senses - quickly.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2003 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           January 28, 2003, Tuesday

ISRAEL UPS SECUTITY AHEAD OF ELECTION;
 CONCERN OVER POSSIBLE TERROR ATTACKS DURING VOTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 322 words

HIGHLIGHT: TIGHT SECURITY: an Israeli soldier checks a Palestinian car leaving
the Kalandya checkpoint on the outskirts of the West Bank town of Ramallah
yesterday


ISRAELI security forces yesterday barred Palestinians from entering Israel ahead
of today's general election.

Last-minute opinion polls, meanwhile, showed Prime Ariel Sharon's hard- line
party far ahead of its closest rivals.

Concerned about possible terror attacks during the vote, security forces stepped
up already tight travel restrictions on the Palestinians.

They will not be allowed to cross from the West Bank and Gaza into Israel proper
until tomorrow, the day after the election. Most Palestinians were already
prevented from entering Israel, even before the latest move.

The army did lift curfews in several West Bank cities, allowing residents to
leave their homes and letting shops open, but the curfew remained in force in
Nablus and Bethlehem.

Meanwhile, opinion polls published yesterday showed Sharon's Likud party holding
a comfortable lead. The results were in line with other recent surveys.

Likud is projected to win at least 32 seats in the 120-member parliament,
compared to about 18 for the dovish Labour Party and 15 for the mainstream
Shinui, according to Maariv newspaper.

While the election itself is not expected to produce surprises, Sharon could
face difficulties in forming the kind of broad-based, national unity government
he wants.

The Labour Party says it will not join a government headed by Sharon, while
Shinui, which opposes special privileges for the ultra-Orthodox, says it will
not join the government if religious parties are included.

That could force Sharon to turn to far-right and religious parties for his
coalition, though such a grouping is seen as unstable.

He could form such a government with at least 63 seats, according to a poll
published in the Yediot Ahronot newspaper.

As the campaign wound down, Sharon urged his supporters to "get out and vote"
and warned that Likud's large lead in the polls should not lead to complacency.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Century Newspapers Limited

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 29, 2003

Defiant Bush tells the world: United Nations won't stop our attack on Iraq;
WAR ON TERROR: Evidence of Saddam link to al Qaeda to be released

BYLINE: Jeremy Campbell;Joe Murphy

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 595 words


GEORGE BUSH took America to the brink of war today - and declared he is ready to
go it alone.

He vowed that neither the United Nations nor reluctant allies would stop the
United States from taking action to disarm Saddam Hussein.

"The course of this nation does not depend on the decisions of others," he said
in a State of the Union speech that won a roaring, standing ovation.

" Whatever action is required, whenever action is necessary, I will defend the
freedom and security of the American people."

His keynote speech, seen as the most important of his presidency, warned that
Saddam Hussein was capable of "a day of horror like none we have never known".

Warning that the carnage of 11 September could be dwarfed if Iraq supplied "one
vial, one canister, one crate" of chemical or biological weapons to terrorists,
he dismissed calls for extended UN inspections as mere "process".

He told his audience of members of Congress and government leaders - and
thousands of US servicemen watching from bases in the Gulf - that "crucial
hours" lay ahead. President-Bush also confirmed that the US will release
intelligence information that would show Iraq was linked to al Qaeda, and that
Saddam was secretly aiding the group.

"Secretly, and without fingerprints, he could provide one of his hidden weapons
to terrorists, or help them develop their own," he said, insisting the threat
was faced by every American family.

"Before 11 September, many in the world believed that Saddam Hussein could be
contained," he warned. "But chemical agents, lethal viruses and shadowy
terrorist networks are not easily contained. Imagine those 19 hijackers with
other weapons and other plans, this time armed by Saddam Hussein.

"It would take one vial, one canister, one crate slipped into this country to
bring a day of horror like none we have ever known. We will do everything in our
power to make sure that that day never comes."

Mr Bush dismissed calls to wait until firm proof that Saddam still possessed
weapons of mass destruction. "Since when have terrorists and tyrants announced
their intentions, politely putting us on notice before they strike?"

The clear signal that the US may take action without UN endorsement brought
immediate condemnation. Senator Edward Kennedy, the senior Democrat, demanded he
come to Congress to seek authorisation for action.

But to ringing applause, the President listed Saddam's crimes, including
torturing children, gassing whole villages and mutilating opponents with drills,
acid and electric shocks.

"If this is not evil, then evil has no meaning," he said.

To the Iraqi people, he said: "Your enemy is not surrounding your country, your
enemy is ruling your country."

Tony Blair will today step up a diplomatic drive to win over allies to the US.
He is meeting five world leaders in six days in the hope of obtaining UN backing
for military action. He has already promised to join America even if the UN does
not explicitly authorise an attack.

Mr Blair will tonight meet Italian premier Silvio Berlusconi at Downing Street.
Tomorrow he flies to Madrid. Then he flies to Washington for Friday's crucial
"war council" with President Bush at Camp David.

Anne McElvoy: Page 11

THE stock market was expected to resume its relentless decline today. City
bookmakers were predicting that the FTSE 100 index of leading shares would open
between five and 15 points lower. The Footsie broke an 11-day losing streak
yesterday, ending up nine points at 3490.

Business: Page 33


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: WAR CRY: GEORGE BUSH WARNED OF THE THREAT FROM SADDAM AND SAID THAT
"CRUCIAL HOURS LIE AHEAD"

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                January 30, 2003

Blair leads new Europe rallying cry for attack on Saddam;
WAR ON TERROR: PM's diplomatic offensive to widen support for Bush

BYLINE: Ben Leapman

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 510 words


TONY BLAIR stepped up the diplomatic pressure on Iraq today by signing up to a
joint call from eight European leaders for the continent to back US president
George Bush's tough line.

The move, as the Prime Minister set off on a round of visits to overseas
capitals, brought splits within the European Union out into the open.

Neither French president Jacques Chirac nor German chancellor Gerhard Schroder,
who are both sceptical of the need for war, backed the appeal.

Instead, it was supported by the leaders of Italy, Spain, Portugal, Denmark, and
three countries which will soon be in the EU - Poland, Hungary and the Czech
Republic.

The leaders declared: "Today more than ever, the transatlantic bond is a
guarantee of our freedom. The transatlantic relationship must not become a
casualty of the current Iraqi regime's persistent attempts to threaten world
security.

"The UN Security Council must maintain its credibility by ensuring full
compliance with its resolutions."

Mr Blair will today fly to Madrid for talks with Spanish premier Jose Maria
Aznar, who drafted the joint article, before heading to the United States to
discuss tactics with President Bush.

Senior Democrats in Washington expressed hopes that the Prime Minister could act
as a retraining influence on the President, persuading him of the importance of
securing explicit United Nations backing for any military-action. Next week Mr
Blair will meet President Chirac, but the atmosphere is expected to be frosty.

Mr Blair will appeal to the French president not to use his country's veto on
the UN Security Council to block any second resolution authorising war.

US secretary of state Colin Powell, who will present fresh evidence on Saddam
Hussein's military programme to the Security Council next week, said that there
was "a strong school of thought supporting the idea" of a second resolution.

But Mr Powell added that the Iraqi leader "must understand that he's going to be
disarmed one way or another".

In a televised meeting with his military commanders, Saddam warned: "We know
that they are coming with large forces of infantry and armoured units to storm
our defensive positions.

But we will absorb the momentum of the attack, destroy it and defeat it."

Former Labour cabinet member Tony Benn was today flying to Baghdad in the hope
of meeting Saddam Hussein to "explore the alternatives to war".

Mr Benn said that he was trying to "hype the whole thing down", that he was
paying his own fare and hotel bills and did not want to say much about his visit
in case the meeting did not in the end materialise.

He added that Saddam had agreed that the meeting could be televised. The former
cabinet minister and Chesterfield MP said: "I feel I have to go because a lot of
people in the world would like to know if there is an alternative to war, and
that is what I am exploring.

"I shall ask relevant questions. It is not going to be like a Paxman or Robin
Day interview. It is to ask questions and to see what he says."


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            January 31, 2003, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: MANDELA IN ATTACK ON US AND BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 113 words


Nelson Mandela turned on Tony Blair and George Bush yesterday, accusing the
premier of being a Washington lap-dog and implying the US president is a racist
for ignoring the UN in his zeal to attack Iraq.

The former South African president condemned Mr Blair for his support of the
United States. 'He is the foreign minister of the United States. He is no longer
prime minister of Britain,' he said.

The Nobel Peace Prize winner urged the people of the United States to join
massive protests against Mr Bush and called on world leaders, especially those
with vetoes in the UN Security Council, to unite to oppose him. 'All that Bush
wants is Iraqi oil,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 31, 2003

Classroom terror as every 15minutes sees an attack on a teacher

BYLINE: Graham Grant

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 576 words


A TEACHER is assaulted or abused every 15 minutes as violence in classrooms
continues to rise.

Disturbing new figures show attacks on teaching staff have rocketed by 20 per
cent in the past year.

Released yesterday by the Scottish Executive, they show the number of assaults
and violent incidents rose from 4,501 to 5,412.

At least one teacher in Scotland is assaulted by a parent every day and there
are now seven times more attacks on teachers than in 1997.

Teaching unions condemned the Executive's failure to curb the rising tide of
violence, which they claim has been fuelled by its 'social inclusion' policy.

Education Minister Cathy Jamieson wants to keep as many disruptive pupils as
possible in mainstream schools. But critics say the policy has backfired and
should be scrapped.

Yesterday's figures show 37 per cent of incidents in 2001-02 occurred in primary
schools and 30 per cent in secondaries.

More than 100 attacks on staff happened in nursery schools and the rest were in
special schools. In 4 per cent of all reported incidents, the perpetrator was a
parent.

The figures measure the number of incidents rather than the number of staff
involved, and include instances of serious verbal abuse as well as physical
attack. In 44 per cent of cases, the incidents involved physical violence only,
29 per cent involved purely verbal abuse and the remainder a mixture of the two.

The figures cover teachers and other local authority schools staff.

Mrs Jamieson is spending GBP 10 million on improving discipline in schools,
including classroom 'minders' auxiliary workers who will escort pupils between
classes.

But Tino Ferri, head of the National Association of Schoolmasters/ Union of
Women Teachers in Scotland, last night said the problems could not be solved
with money alone.

He added: 'The message to violent and abusive parents must be unequivocal:
behave or you will be jailed.

' The Executive refuses to acknowledge even the possibility that its total
inclusion policy could be in any way responsible.' David Eaglesham, general
secretary of the Scottish Secondary Teachers' Association, said: 'Society as a
whole has become more aggressive and schools are not exempt.

'What is needed now is a much broader approach, so that violence against public
servants becomes as unacceptable as drink-driving or domestic abuse.'

Scottish Conservative education spokesman Brian Monteith said: 'Headteachers
must be given the ability to exclude unruly pupils.

'Disruptive and violent pupils destroy morale, cause physical injury and prevent
good, hardworking pupils from getting on with their studies.' SNP education
spokesman Mike Russell said: 'This is just another example of Labour pen-pushing
rather than action.' Mrs Jamieson claimed the rise in attacks was due to better
reporting of incidents. She said: 'Violent and threatening behaviour is
unacceptable and will not be tolerated in our schools.

'We will continue to improve the way we collect data and ensure that we target
resources on improving school discipline.' Meanwhile, it was announced yesterday
that the Executive's discipline task force is to be reconvened to discuss
progress.

The body has already made a series of recommendations on improving discipline in
schools.

At First Minister's Questions, Jack McConnell confirmed that Mrs Jamieson would
be resurrecting the group.

g.grant@dailymail.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Sunday Herald

                                February 2, 2003

Police fears of Mafia links to terrorists' plan for Nato attack;Arrests of
al-Qaeda suspects found hiding explosives fuels fear of organised crime ties,
reports Hilary Clarke in Naples

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 941 words


People in Forcella, the district of central Naples behind the city's main
railway station, are used to strange comings and goings and to not asking too
many questions. The run-down warren of narrow streets criss-crossed by washing
lines is home of the Giulianos, the city's most feared clan of the Camorra, the
Neapolitan Mafia.

Local legends have passed under the pink stone entrance of number 7c Peace Alley
in the heart of the city, including the Argentinian footballer Diego Maradona. A
Napoli player in the 1980s, he was photographed in a bath shaped like a shell
when he was a regular guest at the lavish parties held by the clan.

Last week, the ochre- coloured block was found to be the base of Islamic
terrorists from Pakistan busy planning a devastating attack on Nato institutions
in the city.

According to Italian investigators, the most likely target was none other than
Admiral Sir Michael Boyce, chief of Defence Staff of the United Kingdom, who was
due to visit Nato's southern European command at the end of next month. The
discovery has raised the disturbing possibility of a link between the Mafia and
Islamic terrorists.

It is not hard to see why Forcella would be a chosen place for terrorists to
hide. In central Naples, one of Italy's most cosmopolitan cities, people are
also used to poverty stricken immigrants squeezing into tiny spaces. Hardly an
eyebrow would be raised at the sight of 28 Pakistanis living in these crowded
conditions.

In the lawless district of Forcella with its bustling market for contraband
goods, it would be easy for immigrants without the right paperwork to escape the
attentions of police. It would also be a good place to obtain the materials
needed to make a bomb.

Indeed, the Giulianos were the landlords of the two flats where the Pakistanis
lived. They received Euro 500 ((pounds) 330) for each apartment a month,
collected by a younger member of the clan now being questioned by police.
According to local people, the residents of the two "bassi" - the Neapolitan
term for these type of windowless lodgings on the first and second floor -
changed frequently, some staying just a few days. As long as the rent was
delivered on time, the landlords cared little who was living there.

Italian police raided number 7c, which still contains the shell shaped bath but
which otherwise is in a poor state of disrepair, on Thursday night in a routine
raid looking for evidence of drugs and a Ukrainian prostitution racket.

What they found was the strongest evidence yet of an imminent al-Qaeda attack in
Europe.

More worrying, the visit of Admiral Boyce had not yet been officially confirmed,
raising concern of an inside tip-off. The Naples base was the place through
which British troops passed on their way to Afghanistan.

Along with a picture of the admiral, cut out and circled from an Urdu newspaper,
the police found 1lb 12oz of explosives, enough to blow up a three -storey
building, 230ft of fuse laced with highly flammable nitroglycerine and various
electronic detonators crammed behind a false wall, probably built by the Camorra
to stash drugs.

Islamic religious texts, photos of jihad (holy war) martyrs, piles of false
documents, maps of the Naples area, addresses of global contacts and more than
100 mobile telephones were also found in the lodgings as well as maps with
various targets marked on them including the head-quarters of Nato's southern
European command on the city's outskirts, the US consulate and a US Navy air
base at Capodichino, outside the city.

As investigators sift through the evidence, and start questioning the 28 men
arrested, of whom only four are legally resident in Italy, the question on
everyone's mind is whether there are any strategic links between the handful
thought to have been plotting the terrorist attacks and the Camorra.

It seems likely that only some of the Pakistanis living in the block were al
-Qaeda. "I am convinced, and not just now, that connections can be made between
terrorists and the organised criminal underworld of a Mafia type," said Piero
Luigi Vigna, Italy's senior anti-Mafia prosecutor. "Even the United Nations
Security Council has talked about this. The possibility exists mainly because
international terrorism has transnational dimensions like some Mafia
organisations."

He said Mafia criminal organisations ran much of the illicit arms trade and as a
result "it is likely there was contact between them".

Investigators will be particularly interested to find out from whom the alleged
terrorists obtained the explosives. The Giuliano clan, who despite their
millions in illegal profits still live in the neighbourhood, are notorious as
producers and distributors of the heroin that has caused so much social
devastation in the city. Here again there could be a connection between al
-Qaeda and the Neapolitan Mafia.

The first reaction of Naples police was to rule out any link between the
Giulianos and international Islamic terrorists because the clan's boss, Luigi
Giuliano, recently turned pentiti, or informer.

Now they are not so sure. But even in the mean streets of Forcella, people are
surprised at Thursday's haul.

"What! Terrorists here?" one shopkeeper said to a reporter from La Repubblica
newspaper. "Maybe there was one or two, but the others, no.

"And to think I used to joke with one of them and call him bin Laden. He was
about 50 and used to come here once a week to buy 20 boxes of eggs, mineral
water, two tins of oil and rice. I used to say, 'Ciao, bin Laden'. And he used
to smile. He seemed like a pitiful type."

LOAD-DATE: February 04, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A policeman displays the explosives found in the Naples flat during a
routine raid Photograph: Ciro Fusco

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           February 4, 2003, Tuesday

OFFICIALS FEAR BIG TERRORIST ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 108 words


AL-QAIDA is preparing a massive attack to rival September 11, but plans have
been disrupted by recent arrests of terror suspects, it was reported today.

Intelligence reports indicate that links between al-Qaida cells are being
restored gradually, officials told the Washington Times.

One intelligence official said: "The attack will be large-scale".

Intelligence reports, sent to senior Bush administration officials last week,
said any major attack is likely to be preceded by smaller-scale strikes,
including killings of prominent people in the US.

The warning did not say whether the attack would be in the US or abroad.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                February 4, 2003

OPERATION DOOMSDAY;
(How Britain would confront a bio-terror attack) As the Government conjures up a
nightmare vision of a country in crisis, the Prime Minister admits the stakes
are high

BYLINE: Andrew Loudon

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 734 words


A NIGHTMARE vision of Britain under terrorist attack was conjured up by the
Government yesterday as it unveiled the biggest shake up of emergency planning
since the Cold War.

In bloodcurdling detail, it spelt out how the emergency services would
decontaminate those caught up in a chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear
attack so-called CBRN terrorism.

Under the doomsday plans, specialist firemen in protective suits will run mass
contamination units, with ambulance personnel leading survivors through the
process.

Victims will be stripped and then walk or be stretchered through fixed and
handheld warm showers to remove traces of hazardous material. Planners are
allowing 15 seconds per person.

Spectacles, watches and even hearing aids will be confiscated and people will
emerge in white 'modesty' overalls on their way to casualty clearing stations.

The 38-page blueprint is the Government's answer to the threat of an attack
involving weapons of mass destruction the kind of attack Tony Blair has said he
believes is 'inevitable'.

Ministers fear that terrorists could resort to nerve agents such as VX, mustard
gas and even nuclear devices.

The effect of a high dose of nerve agent is catalogued in chilling detail, with
the victim suffering secretion from the mouth, vomiting, incontinence, tremors
or convulsions.

Exposure to mustard gas may cause temporary loss of sight, skin blisters,
vomiting, diarrhoea and breathing difficulties.

guidance was drawn up as a response to the September 11 attacks in America.

Its publication yesterday shortly before Mr Blair offered his starkest warning
yet of the dangers of failing to take on Saddam Hussein will expose Downing
Street to accusations that it is employing scare tactics to swing public opinion
behind an attack on Iraq.

Ministers insist, however, that openness is the most effective way of dealing
with the terrorist threat.

The document, called Strategic National Guidance, says it assumes 'the worst
case scenario of CBRN terrorism'.

It says a terrorist attack would involve a specific target-such as a VIP,
critical or iconic location, or high profile event'.

A CBRN release 'may quickly spread' over a large part of the country.

The plans to counter the threat have been overseen by the Civil Contingencies
Secretariat of the Cabinet Office, reporting directly to the Prime Minister.

Already GBP 56million has been committed for mass decontamination and monitoring
equipment which will be carried on speciallycommissioned fire trucks carrying a
crew of six.

The number of gas-tight protection suits available for rescuers is being doubled
to 4,000.

There will be 80 incident response vehicles covering the country, the first of
which should be in service by spring.

As well as setting up decontamination centres near the scene of an attack,
others will be put in place outside major hospitals.

Police cordons with armed military backup will try to quell panic and make sure
the injured submit to the cleanup procedures before they can be given medical
treatment.

of the incident-emergency teams will assemble in four distinct areas. Only
heavily-protected fire service rescuers will be allowed into the Hot Zone,
immediately surrounding the point of contamination, to rescue casualties and
remove the dead.

In the Warm Zone, ambulance officers will prioritise casualties for
decontamination in a rubber tent.

The casualties will then move into the Cold Zone and be given a disposable paper
suit.

A casualty clearing station sends the dead to a temporary mortuary, the injured
to hospital and the rest to a holding centre.

Stephen Rose, professor of biology at the Open University, said the
decontamination system would be 'completely ineffectual' against nerve gases
such as VX which are quickly absorbed through the skin, and biological agents
like ricin or anthrax which are inhaled.

He added: 'If the Government believe their own claims they have got to do
something and this is very ostentatious and showy, but it seems to be a way of
building up terror-panic and it is not very helpful.' Home Office Minister John
Denham said: 'This guidance does not signal a new threat to the UK.

'However, it is vital that the Government continues to protect the public from
any possible threat from terrorists now and for years to come.'


LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           February 04, 2003, Tuesday

Home Office's terror attack survival guide

BYLINE: By Linus Gregoriadis

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 349 words

THE Government yesterday unveiled its plans for mass decontamination in the
event of a chemical or nuclear attack by terrorists.

The roles and responsibilities of the emergency services during a "worst case
scenario" have been set out by the Home Office in a 39-page document. The plans
cover the reaction to a "dirty bomb" and other types of chemical, biological,
radiological or nuclear attack.

The document warns that such an attack "would involve a specific target such as
a VIP, critical or iconic location, or high profile event".

It says that it is not inevitable that a terrorist attack will lead to high
levels of contamination but warns that the emergency services may have to deal
with secondary devices and multiple incidents. The plans incorporate existing
guidelines for the police, fire and ambulance services, the NHS, councils, the
Environment Agency and coroners in the event of a terrorist strike.

The police, firemen and the military will work to rescue casualties from the
"Hot Zone", the area closest to the incident. Decontamination will take place in
a surrounding area known as the Warm Zone while a survivor rest centre and
command and control vehicles will be in the Cold Zone.

The document describes how outer clothing would be removed to limit the risk of
inhaling contamination, with underwear also being removed "if contamination is
suspected". "The removed clothing should be treated as hazardous waste, double
bagged and placed in a controlled area."

The mass decontamination methods could include low pressure water spray from a
fire hose, portable showers, the use of large, purpose-built mobile units as
well as fixed facilities away from the scene.

John Denham, the Home Office minister, said: "This guidance does not signal a
new threat to the UK. If a specific credible threat becomes apparent, the
Government and the appropriate authorities will, without hesitation, inform the
public of what action to take."

He added: "At the moment, we simply ask the public to be vigilant and, as
normal, to report any suspicious activity to the police."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2003 Telegraph Group Limited

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                February 5, 2003

Playground Terror As Thugs Attack Six-Year-Olds

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 433 words


Children as young as six were savagely attacked in their own school playground
by a gang of thugs.  The terrified pupils were pushed and punched by a group of
older boys as they were playing at lunchtime.

Around 15 primary pupils were hurt or badly shaken in the apparently unprovoked
incident at an Aberdeen school.

Police and council chiefs have now launched an investigation into the attack.
The incident happened at Newhills School, in Bucksburn.

Between six and eight boys aged 12-16 invaded the school playground and began
shouting abuse at the youngsters.

It is understood they then attacked the frightened pupils. Several youngsters
were punched and pushed to the ground in last Thursday's incident.

A playground supervisor came to the aid of the terrified youngsters - all aged
between just six and 11.

She alerted staff inside the school and the attackers then ran off.

A city council spokeswoman said: "Following the incident, the police were called
immediately and they launched an investigation.

"The parents of those pupils who were hurt or left shaken were contacted in line
with standard procedures which were followed by staff." One young boy was also
taken to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary by his parents but was released after
treatment.

The spokeswoman added: "The matter was dealt with promptly, with pupils' welfare
of paramount importance." Newhills School Board chairman Barney Crockett said:
"We are very concerned about the incident and the children who have suffered
this trauma.

"We would encourage parents to contact police with any details which could be
helpful." He confirmed a letter had been sent out by the school appealing to the
mums and dads for information.

"It spoke about the upsetting incident and how the teachers appreciated the help
of parents who took their kids home from school that afternoon," he said.

He added the pupils had been warned to be on the look-out in future when in the
playground.

Newhills councillor Peter Stephen, who went to the school shortly after the
incident, said: "It takes a long time for children to get over something like
that.

"It was the first time it had happened and I'm hopeful it will not happen
again." The day after the incident pupils were kept in school for the
mid-morning and lunch breaks.

They were allowed back into the playground at the beginning of this week.

A Grampian Police spokeswoman said: "We are aware of the incident and are
collecting statements from witnesses." Anyone with information should call
(01224) 386000 or Crimestoppers on (0800) 555111.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Evening Express

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          February 5, 2003, Wednesday

BABY'S TERROR IN TAXI ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 75 words


A TODDLER was terrified when a gang of young thugs attacked a taxi.

Glass showered down on the 18-month-old tot when the yobs - aged between eight
and 14 - smashed a window with a pool cue.

Police yesterday appealed for help to nail the mob of youngsters - both boys and
girls - who attacked the taxi in Main Street, Bainford, Falkirk, last Wednesday.

PC Tom Gardiner said: "The results of this act could have been very serious."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2003 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                February 5, 2003

Attack victim tells court of brothers' terror visit to flat

BYLINE: Emma Slee

SECTION: News; Courts; CrownCourt; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 528 words


Two brothers armed with wooden bats barged into a flat and repeatedly beat the
occupant as he lay on the floor, a court heard.  Jason Dart told Exeter Crown
Court yesterday how he had just set foot in his Teignmouth flat when two men
came up behind him and smashed him over the head with a bat.

He said: "I saw them coming towards me with bats. I pushed my girlfriend into
the bathroom to get her out the way, and felt a blow to the back of my head.

"I fell to the floor instantly. They hit me all over my body, my hands, back,
and neck.

"I put my arms up to try to stop the blows. I was rolling around on the floor to
try to get away from it all, but I was in a small space and couldn't get away."
Mr Dart was taken to hospital suffering from multiple bruising and a gash to the
head which required stitches.

Brian Peter White, 42, of Fraser Drive, Teignmouth, denies aggravated burglary
and unlawful wounding.

His brother Kevin, 32, of the same address, pleaded guilty to aggravated
burglary just before the trial began, and was remanded in custody for a
pre-sentence report to be prepared.

Prosecutor Sean Brunton said Mr Dart had been out for a drink with his
girlfriend, Kimberly Roberts, on the evening of July 11. Moments after returning
to their flat, also in Fraser Drive, the White brothers burst in.

Mr Brunton continued: "This defendant struck Mr Dart on the head with the bat
straight away. Both men struck him repeatedly with bats, fists and kicks as he
lay curled up in a foetal position, trying to protect himself." The court heard
how friends of Mr Dart shouted that the police had arrived, causing the brothers
to run off.

"Kevin threw his bat into a neighbouring garden. A short time later their flat
was searched and three wooden clubs were found." In police interview, the
defendant said there had been an incident earlier in the night when Mr Dart had
damaged property belonging to Kevin White's girlfriend, and there had been a
confrontation about it.

He admitted going to the flat to "make him cry". White said he and Mr Dart
squared up to each other, and admitted having a fight, but said everything he
did was in self defence. He denied using any bats, and said he acted alone.

"That was a lie, because Kevin White has just pleaded guilty to the offence,"
said the prosecutor.

"The Crown say that bats were used, both these men assaulted Mr Dart and they
went to his flat specifically to do that. Self defence simply does not arise.

"They should not have been barging into the flat and should not have been
hitting him at all.

"It matters not who struck the first blow. They went there together, acted
together, and are both responsible.

"It may be that there was another incident earlier in the evening, but that did
not give the defendant any excuse to do what he did." Mr Dart said he had just
entered the flat when he heard a bang behind him and saw two men, whom he
recognised. He said he was not aggressive and was unable to defend himself.

"It felt like it went on forever. I could feel blood trickling down the back of
my neck," he said.

The trial continues.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2003 Express & Echo (Exeter)

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                                February 5, 2003

Hospital gets ready to deal with any terrorist attacks

LENGTH: 276 words


STAFF at Swindon's new hospital are upgrading their equipment and know-how to
deal with any possible terrorist attacks.

The Great Western Hospital has taken delivery of 15 chemical protection suits
and a portable decontamination unit.

And next month they will take part in a mock terror alert involving all
emergency services and the local government, to sharpen their skills and refine
their major incident plans.

The government-supplied suits are a sombre reminder of the increasing
possibility of war with Iraq and the increased risk of terror attacks following
September 11. Similar hospital trusts across the country are also being supplied
with equipment as part of a national strategy to brace the country for
biological or chemical strikes.

The kit, which is stored at the Great Western Hospital near Commonhead, will
allow trained staff to stay safe while they assess and treat victims of such an
attack.

The Trust's human resources director Paul Bently confirmed that the trust had
taken receipt of the equipment.

He added: "The suits can be used for any eventuality involving dangerous
chemicals, not necessarily a chemical attack. They could also be used in the
event of a chemical spill or any accident involving something of this nature.

"We aim to ensure that the Trust can respond flexibly to a wide range of
possible major incidents, and this equipment is part of that approach."

A number of frontline medical staff from the Accident and Emergency department
have already attended regional study days on the use of the chemical-proof suits
and will be teaching their colleagues what they have learned.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                February 7, 2003

'High risk' of terror attack

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 177 words


The US national terror alert was raised from yellow to orange yesterday,
following an intelligence warning of a high risk of a terrorist attack.



A senior administration official said the decision was based on an increase in
intelligence pointing to a possible attack around the Muslim holy period of
Hajj, the annual pilgrimage to the holy Saudi city of Mecca that starts today.

President George Bush approved the decision yesterday. The alert has been at
code yellow, or elevated, which is the middle of a five-point scale of risk
developed after the September 11 attacks.

It was last raised to orange in September, for two weeks, to coincide with the
first anniversary of the attacks.

Government officials have grown increasingly concerned about the likelihood of
terrorist attacks within the US, as intelligence sources are reporting an
increase in terrorist activity or chatter.

As in the past, officials said they had no information regarding specific
terrorist threats and no indication of a time, place or manner of any attack.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 8, 2003, Saturday

NURSE'S TERROR AT BRUTAL S EX ATTACK;
 ANGER OVER SECURITY AT HOSPITAL AS MAN HUNTED

BYLINE: GREGG FRAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 420 words


A NURSE has told of her terrifying ordeal at the hands of a man who tried to
rape her at the hospital where she works.

The sex attacker stalked the mother-of-two from the street before dragging her
into a doctor's consulting r oom at Walton hospital.

The 22-year-old nurse said she was frozen w ith fear as the man told her in
graphic detail what he planned to do to her.

She said: "He exposed himself and tried to get me to the floor. I could not move
because I thought I was going to be raped.

"I can't sleep because of the nightmares. I can still smell him, hear his voice
and p icture his face when I close my eyes."

The attack, which happened at 1.30pm on Tuesday, stopped when the victim managed
to lash outand kick the man in t he chest, before screaming for help. A police
hunt was launched immediately.

The nurse, who works one day a week at Walton Hospital, said: "I was in u
niform, with a colleague, on my way into w ork. I stopped at the cash point on
Walton Vale, where I first saw the man.

"I thought I was going to get mugged because he and another man were watching
from a Vauxhall Cavalier. We drove away but they followed.

"We went into work and thought they had gone and I w ent to get my equipment
ready for my shift. As I walked along the corridor, he was waiting in t he
little room and grabbed my arm and dragged me in. "He was telling me w hat he
was going t o do to me as he tried to sweep my legs from under me.

"He knew exactly what he wanted from the moment he saw me. He was so arrogant,
so cocky."

The nurse, from Aintree, said she has been t oo scared to go back to work since
t he ordeal. She added: "You think y ou are going t o be safe at work - but you
are not. He should never have been allowed in. The security there is pathetic.
There is nothing t o stop something like this happening."

A hospital spokeswoman said that, while she believed security at the hospital
was tight, it was difficult to cover every eventuality.

She added: "Last year additional security personnel w ere employed at Walton and
an improved system of CCTV has been installed. Police have issued an e-fit of
the attacker in the hope that somebody may recognise him.

He was aged 30-40, 5ft 10in and slim. He had short brown hair, thick eyebrows
and blue eyes. He was unshaven and had a tooth missing on t he right side of his
mouth.

The man wore blue jeans, a dark jacket and black shoes. Anyone with information
should phone 0151-777 4565 or 0800-555 111.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: E-FIT: Suspect; Q

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                February 8, 2003

America heightens terror alert amid fears of attack

BYLINE: Michael Settle Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 576 words


AMERICA was placed on its second-highest terror alert last night after the US
administration cited an "increased likelihood" of an al Qaeda attack.

It is only the second time since the attacks of September 11, 2001 that the
level of risk of a terrorist attack has been raised from elevated to high.

With the nation preparing for a likely war with Iraq, John Ashcroft, the
attorney general, told a television audience that apartments, hotels or other
"lightly secured targets" could be at risk of attack.

He also warned that terrorists might seek "economic targets" such as railway
stations and power plants "as well as symbols of American power".

The decision to heighten the alert was based on an increase in intelligence
pointing to a possible attack by Osama bin Laden's network timed to coincide
with the hajj, the annual Muslim pilgrimage to Mecca in Saudi Arabia, Islam's
holiest site.

The holy period begins today.

The heightened alert, from yellow to orange, will trigger a government-wide
increase in security precautions.

Tom Ridge, the homeland security secretary, urged that Americans should "in the
days ahead, take some time to prepare for emergencies".

As an example, he suggested family members should devise plans for contacting
one another if separated by an emergency.

At the White House, George W Bush kept up the pressure on the UN ahead of the
report by Hans Blix, its chief weapons inspector, next Friday.

The president urged the security council to "make up its mind soon" about
confronting Iraq, warning reluctant world leaders that the US would not wait
long before leading a "coalition of the willing" to disarm Saddam.

The sense of a gathering storm was enhanced by Donald Rumsfeld, the US defence
secretary, who, addressing US troops in Italy, said: "It is not knowable how
long (a) conflict would last. It could last six days, six weeks. I doubt six
months."

However, France was still attempting to apply the brakes. As an opinion poll in
his country showed that 77% of the population were opposed to war, up 11 points
since last month, Jacques Chirac said in a telephone conversation with Mr Bush:
"We can disarm Saddam Hussein without going to war."

On a trip to India, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, France's prime minister, issued a
clear rebuke to Washington, insisting: "It's not a game, it's not over."

Dr Blix, due back in Baghdad today, was adamant the UN wanted "more from Iraq".

Last night, the Iraqi foreign ministry revealed three more Iraqi scientists had
granted private interviews to the weapons inspectors. Each lasted up to three
-and-a-half hours.

Earlier, Downing Street had been dismissive of what it described as "gestures"
by

Saddam.

Tony Blair's spokesman said: "The key question this weekend is not whether we
expect Saddam to make a few gestures or concessions in the continuing game of
catch-as-catch-can. It's whether there is a fundamental change of attitude."

Meanwhile, the London-based International Institute for Strategic Studies, a
leading defence think tank, claimed a war with Iraq would cost the British
taxpayer up to (pounds) 3.5bn, greatly exceeding the government's own estimate
of (pounds) 1bn.

The 1991 Gulf War cost (pounds) 2.5bn, based on a three-month deployment and six
weeks of fighting.

In New York, diplomatic sources suggested Britain was already drafting a second
UN resolution should it prove

necessary.

LOAD-DATE: February 08, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 09, 2003, Sunday

US backs Kurd attack on terrorist enclave in Iraq

BYLINE: BY DAMIEN McELROY in Ankara

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 296 words

KURDISH LEADERS have gained White House backing for a strike on the Ansar
al-Islam enclave in northern Iraq, which has been identified by America as the
link between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda terrorists.

Jalal Talabani, the leader of the eastern half of Kurdish territory, was
promised military backing for an attack during meetings with Zalmay Khalilzad,
President Bush's special envoy to the Iraqi opposition, in Ankara last week.

"Kurdistan and America cannot wait for ever to get rid of Ansar al-Islam," said
Mr Talabani in an interview with The Sunday Telegraph. "We know that they commit
crimes and use the mountain camps to grow stronger as a terrorist group. They
have fundamentalist Kurds from Iran and Arabs from Iraq, Jordan, Palestine and
Syria. We need American help to stop their activities."

Under the agreement struck in Ankara, the valley infiltrated by an estimated
2,000 radical Islamic fighters will be one of the first targets in any US
attack. It will come under aerial assault before Mr Talabani's Kurdish militia
are ordered in.

A Kurdish official said that his group was supplying information on targets for
American F16 aircraft and B2 bombers based in Turkey.

Mr Talabani's aides said that Special Forces snipers were among "dozens" of US
personnel scouting positions ahead of the assault on the valley.

The tiny enclave run on strict Islamic lines by Ansar al-Islam in the Shineray
mountains has become a haven for al-Qaeda fighters who fled Afghanistan.

Last week Colin Powell, America's secretary of state, cited Iraqi assistance to
Ansar fighters as evidence of Baghdad's links to al-Qaeda. Mr Talabani said
members of the Islamic group had been given passports and safe houses in
Baghdad.
[PS]News: [ES]

International:

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           February 10, 2003, Monday

Attack 'would boost number of terrorists'

BYLINE: Melissa Kite Political Correspondent

SECTION: Overseas news; 12

LENGTH: 307 words


Mo Mowlam has added her voice to critics of the Prime Minister's stance on Iraq
by saying that it would boost the number of terrorists in the Arab world.

The former Northern Ireland Secretary said that a long, drawn-out war would be
catastrophic for Tony Blair, the Labour Party and the public. She said that it
was silly, daft politics to pursue military conflict.

Ms Mowlam, who plans to join next week's Stop the War march, told Sky
television: "I don't buy the moral justification. I think it's more likely to be
oil.

"You don't beat terrorists by bombing them. All you do is act as a very good
recruiting agent for them because more young people then turn towards the
terrorists and you alienate the complete civil population because you bomb them.

"I still don't feel we have any right to attack a country like Iraq. There is
more case to attack North Korea. We can't just start deciding that we're going
to walk into countries because their leader is a bad man and attack them. That's
not on."

Ms Mowlam said that she would have resigned from the Cabinet over the issue if
she were still in it. "I don't think I could sit there with this going on. I
think that war is such that I feel the need to comment quite vociferously."

Downing Street, meanwhile, distanced itself from reports in The Sunday Telegraph
that Britain and the United States could offer President Saddam Hussein the
chance of going into exile.

If weapons inspectors report that the Iraqi dictator is still refusing to
disarm, a second United Nations resolution could offer one last chance for
Saddam to flee Baghdad in 48 hours or face war.

However, a senior Downing Street source said: "If he goes into exile and the
weapons remain, we haven't solved the problem. Our goal is disarmament." Talk of
exile was "highly premature".


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                               February 10, 2003

Would you survive a terrorist attack?

LENGTH: 508 words


RESEARCH by one of the UK's biggest unions suggests that staff in the South West
are alarmingly unprepared for terrorist attacks.

Conducted on behalf of the 700,000 strong GMB union, the survey claims that more
than 90 per cent of employees in the South West do not know what procedures to
follow should a terrorist incident happen, and have not received guidance from
their employer.

GMB spokesman Kevin Durran said: "Our new survey confirms our greatest fears
that employees are completely in the dark as to good practice.

"Employees said they didn't have a clue what the Government's advice was. They
are demanding to know, but it seems that nobody has bothered to tell them."

"Regrettably, if we suffer another terrorist attack, the likelihood is that most
people will be at work when it happens.

"Yet our survey shows that employees are not being properly briefed on practical
steps to take."

The GMB survey also reveals that:

n 87 per cent of South West workers are unaware of the Government's
recommendation that all post be opened with a letter opener in case of chemical
or germ contamination

n 93 per cent are unaware that the Government recommends employees wash their
hands after opening mail

n 81 per cent have no idea of what symptoms to look out for if they suspect a
colleague has become exposed to a biological or chemical agent

The GMB is known as Britain's general union, as it represents workers from all
employment sectors.

In spite of the survey result, many of Swindon's largest employers claim their
staff have been properly briefed on what to do in the event of a terrorist
incident occurring at work.

Zurich spokeswoman Jane Hewin said: "Our security team works with government
agencies and other businesses to monitor threats and recommend appropriate
actions.

"To ensure our people are prepared for building evacuations, know what to do if
they see something suspicious and have full details of our business recovery
operations, we have just launched a health and safety campaign in Swindon.

"The information is being communicated through team meetings, and next week a
credit card-sized safety information card will be issued to all our people."

At Motorola, which employs 1,300 people at its Swindon plant in Blagrove,
spokesman Patrick Hamil-ton said: "We are operating at a very high level of
security at the moment."

"We obviously do take the safety of our employees and our sites very seriously.

"We have daily evaluations of any potential threats and we do pass that
information on to our staff when it's relevant, and hold regular briefings and
safety drills."

Nationwide, employs about 3,600 staff across Swindon, with 2,800 based at its
head office in Pipers Way.

Spokesman Steve Cow-drey said: "As you might expect, we have analysed potential
threats and taken prudent steps to minimise the impact of any terrorist attack."

* Government guidance can be found on the internet at www.ukresilience.info
(http://www.ukresilience.info).

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2003 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 11, 2003, Tuesday

WE'LL STEP UP PATROLS;
 POLICE VOW AFTER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: MARK COWAN FEAR: The bruised hands of the victim, 90 . The photo is
blurred to protect his identity. Picture: Loretta Brennan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 336 words


POLICE today offered reassurance to OAPs frightened by the brutal attack on a
frail widower by two bogus officers.

Elderly people were urged to always check the identification of callers before
opening the door.

And senior officers today pledged to step up police patrols in the area of the
attack to ease fears caused by the incident, which bears similarities to those
of double murderer Andrew Aston.

The attack on the frail 90year-old happened near Aston's hunting ground of
Smethwick and Ladywood.

Two men posing as police officers tricked their way into the home of the
pensioner who was bound, gagged and blindfolded.

The plucky victim yesterday told how he thought 'this is it' when one of the men
put his hands over his mouth and dragged him into the lounge.

He said: 'I am not going to move. I have had many years in this house and I am
not going to go now. I just hope these people are caught before they rob anyone
else.'

Details have already been passed to a specialist team of officers on Operation
Liberal, a Midland-wide initiative to target conmen preying on the elderly. Det
Insp Bob Kearns said: 'This kind of attack on an old person in their own home is
still a rare occurrence. The best advice is to follow all of the standard
precautions and be aware of the people they are letting into the homes.

'If they are in any doubt they should refuse entry.'

Aston repeatedly posed as a police officer to trick his way into the homes of
vulnerable pensioners before stealing cash and valuables.

His one-man crime spree ended in the murder of war hero George Dale who was
beaten with an iron bar when he became suspicious of Aston's credentials.

The father-of-two who was decorated five times for fighting the Germans in Malta
during World War II died in hospital following the vicious beating.

The 29 year old, of Station Road, Stechford, was given 26 life sentences for the
robbery andmurder spree which also claimed the life of 80year-old Frank Hobley.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           February 11, 2003, Tuesday

POLICE PATROL VOW AFTER TERROR ATTACK

BYLINE: MARK COWAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 260 words


POLICE today offered reassurance to OAPs frightened by the brutal attack on a
frail widower by two bogus officers.

Elderly people were urged to check the identification of callers before opening
doors. And senior officers today pledged to step up police patrols in the area
of the attack to ease fears caused by the incident, which bears similarities to
those of double murderer Andrew Aston.

The attack on the frail 90year-old happened near Aston's hunting ground of
Smethwick and Ladywood. Two men posing as police officers tricked their way into
the home of the pensioner who was bound, gagged and blindfolded.

The plucky victim yesterday told how he thought 'this is it' when one of the men
put his hands over his mouth and dragged him into the lounge. He said: 'I am not
going to move. I have had many years in this house and I am not going to go now.
I just hope these people are caught before they rob anyone else.' Details have
already been passed to a specialist team of officers on Operation Liberal, a
Midland-wide initiative to target conmen preying on the elderly. Det Insp Bob
Kearns said: 'This kind of attack on an old person in their own home is still a
rare occurrence. If they are in any doubt they should refuse entry.'

Aston repeatedly posed as a police officer to trick his way into the homes of
vulnerable pensioners .

His one-man crime spree ended in the murder of war hero George Dale. Aston was
given 26 life sentences for the robbery and murder spree which also claimed the
life of 80-year-old Frank Hobley.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 11, 2003, Tuesday

WASHING UP LIQUID AND PAPER SUITS ... OUR FIREFIGHTERS' SECRET WEAPONS IN THE
WAR ON TERROR;
 HOUSEHOLD ITEMS TO FIGHT CHEMICAL ATTACK

BYLINE: JONATHAN CASWELL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 611 words


FIREFIGHTERS have been equipped with washing up liquid and bleach to deal with
chemical or biological attacks.

Paper suits, hats, masks and towels have also been distributed to every fire
station across Merseyside and Cheshire.

Fire crews charged with mass decontamination after terror attacks are being
given the household equipment to minimise harm from over exposure.

Along with the everyday goods they will be issued with specialist chemical suits
in the event of a major incident.

The region's firefighters are likely to spend hours washing and rinsing people
of chemicals and need comprehensive protection so that they can decontaminate
large numbers of people effectively.

Sub-officer Paul Bowness at Heswall said he and his men had undergone full
training.

He warned he would not recommend anybody trying to decontaminate themselves in
the case of an emergency because full measures were in place.

He said: "We split areas into zones. The hot zone is where the incident
happened.

"The warm zone is where decontamination takes place and the cold zone is the
casualty handling areas after the the decontamination process.

"The appliances are put side by side with a ladder across the top and hoses
threaded through the rungs to make a shower.

"People would disrobe, because this removes 85pc of the contaminate and then
bleach diluted in water would be washed over people by our guys in chemical
protection suits.

"Then everything would be washed off with the hoses and the towels and paper
clothing issued."

This first aid kit for chemical attacks has been proven to work and scientific
experts have backed their use.

Prof Tony Hart, an expert in microbiology at the Royal Liverpool Hospital, said
that it was a good first step but it would not be able to stop everything.

"Washing agents would kill some micro-organisms and this is a good first aid
precaution, but there are some you cannot stop this way, for example anthrax,"
he explained.

"For this you need some sort of mask with filters and then the filters need to
be small, because the anthrax used in America was five microns in diameter."

Dr Vyvyan Howard, an expert in toxicology at Liverpool University, added: "In
the main there are three ways of entry into the body, eating breathing and
through the skin.

"If stuff gets on the skin dilution and washing is as good a start as anything."

Merseyside already has a mobile chemical incident unit stationed at Old Swan,
Liverpool, which is used throughout the region and used as back up to units in
Cheshire, Manchester and Lancashire.

The brigade will also be issued with terrorist pod systems which will help with
mass decontamination.

These will include thousands of lightweight suits and portable decontamination
showers.

Alex McDougal, of the Merseyside brigade, said: "All our staff have received
considerable training in chemical and biological incidents.

"In fact we attend at least one chemical incident every day, but these measures
are for mass decontamination and we are prepared.

"In addition every senior officer here on Merseyside has spent at least five
weeks of intensive hazardous materials training at the National Fire Service HQ
in Moreton-inMarsh in Gloucestershire.

"The new first aid kits are purely for the decontamination process, they don't
seem much but these items work, they counteract and dilute chemicals."

A spokesperson for the Deputy Prime Minister's office said that the techniques
may seem simple but worked: "It's called rinse wipe rinse, based on scientific
knowledge, it's the most effective way of decontaminating people."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: KITTED OUT: Paul Bowness with household items which will be used after
terror attacks Picture: TONY KENWRIGHT

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2003 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               February 11, 2003

ARMY GUARD ON HEATHROW;
War on Terror: 450 troops moved in after warning of terror attack: London is on
major alert warns the Yard: Suspect held on Eurostar: HUNDREDS OF TROOPS THROW
'RING OF STEEL' AROUND HEATHROW AMID FRESH FEARS OF IMMINENT ATROCITY

BYLINE: Justin Davenport;Humfrey Hunter

SECTION: Pg. 1;4;5

LENGTH: 1006 words


MORE than 450 troops with armoured cars were patrolling Heathrow today amid
fears of an imminent terror attack.

Scotland Yard said the soldiers were part of a "strengthening of security" in
London as Britain was put on full-scale alert.

More than a thousand police were also deployed on high-visibility patrols, many
of them at the airport and other potential targets in the capital.

It is understood the security services have specific intelligence about a threat
to Heathrow. In a statement, Scotland Yard said the "precautionary" action was
linked to fears that al Qaeda could use the end of the Islamic "festival of
sacrifice", Eid al-Adha, which runs from tomorrow until Saturday, as a trigger
for attacks.

Tony Blair's official spokesman said: "The Government and the security
authorities are taking whatever action is necessary to protect the public."

The last time the Army was deployed at Heathrow was in 1994 following IRA mortar
attacks. The Ministry of Defence said that during the current operation soldiers
would be acting in support of Metropolitan Police security arrangements at the
airport.

The troops include soldiers from the 1st Battalion, Grenadier Guards and the
Household Cavalry Regiment. Sources said they were expected to continue patrols
around the 14-mile perimeter for a number of weeks.

The action follows the decision by the US government to raise its level of alert
last week amid fears of an imminent terrorist attack.

The Prime Minister also recently warned that an al Qaeda attack on Britain was
"inevitable". His spokesman said today it was difficult to comment on the
deployment for "good operational and security reasons" but added: "As the Prime
Minister has made clear the Government has to take judgments depending on the
circumstances.

"It should therefore come as no great surprise that threat levels will rise and
fall from time to time."

Meanwhile heavily armed troops also descended on Windsor today. Foot patrols
scoured the town and targeted wooded areas of Windsor Great Park.

In November, a statement authorised by Home Secretary David Blunkett warned of
"ever more dramatic and devastating" terror attacks, but avoided mention of
specific threats.

Security sources have predicted a range of possible threats from chemical
attacks to more conventional car bombs. In recent months police and security
services have been carrying out an unprecedented operation throughout the UK.

Today it emerged that an al Qaeda suspect was arrested by armed Special Branch
detectives as he arrived at Waterloo on a Eurostar train from Paris.

The 25-year-old Algerian is suspected of planning to carry out a bomb attack in
the UK and is believed to be connected to a gang allegedly involved in the
manufacture of the deadly poison ricin in Wood Green.

The man was arrested following a joint operation between French and British
security services and is being held at the high-security Paddington Green police
station.

At Heathrow, troops began deploying along the perimeter and in and around the
terminal buildings at 6am.

Soldiers in combat fatigues and carrying rifles patrolled on foot in teams of
two or three, rarely staying in one place for more than 20 minutes.

Armoured vehicles and army trucks were at the main entrance, parked outside
terminals and spotted stuck in traffic on the network of roads.

Scotland Yard said soldiers were under the direction of police, who were
controlling their movements from a special operations room, and the deployment
related to "a potential threat to the capital".

"From time to time, it is necessary to raise levels of security activity. We
think it is prudent to do so now," a statement said. "The current strengthening
of security is precautionary and is related to action being taken in other
countries and the possibility the end of the religious festival of Eid may
erroneously be used by al Qaeda and associated networks to mount attacks. The
use of troops is part of a longstanding contingency, authorised by the
Government."

Most passengers were already aware from news bulletins that soldiers had been
deployed.

Helen Faulkner, waiting for a flight to Newark at Terminal 4, said she was
worried about the risk of an attack. "I am trying not to think about it," she
said. "We live with it all the time, so you just have to get on with your life.
You just have to keep your eyes open."

On Millennium Eve, US authorities foiled an al Qaeda plot to blow up Los Angeles
airport. In recent months BAA has recruited hundreds of extra security staff at
Heathrow. One possibility is that suicide bombers could attempt to ram a truck
bomb through the perimeter fence of the airport.

At Windsor Great Park, soldiers carrying SA80 rifles were deployed at all
entrances and in wooded areas. An area of woodland close to the homes of Sir
Elton John and golfer Nick Faldo was searched by troops. One local said: "I've
heard on the news that terrorists might be planning to launch Stinger missiles."
Flights from Heathrow pass over the Windsor area. All vans and trucks going into
and out of Windsor were stopped at armed police checkpoints.

Meanwhile the US government has warned the public to prepare for a chemical,
biological or nuclear attack as the national terror alert remains on "high".

Officials advised stockpiling enough food, water and medicine to last at least
three days, and to have duct tape and plastic sheeting to seal windows and
doors. It is the first time the government has offered such stark advice and
Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said the alert was the "most significant"
since the 11 September attacks.

Washington raised the terror threat last week from yellow to orange, indicating
a "high" risk of attack. Only red, indicating a "severe" threat, is higher. A
classified FBI advisory sent last week to field offices across the US warned
that "al Qaida is set to attack".

Peace protestors accused of anti-Israeli bias: Page 15


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHIELD: TROOPS WITH AN ARMOURED CAR ON PATROL AT HEATHROW TODAY. THEY
WERE SENT IN AFTER SPECIFIC INTELLIGENCE WAS RECEIVED ABOUT A TERRORIST ATTACK
ON THE AIRPORT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               February 12, 2003

UK on terror attack alert;
 Security stepped up for visit by BlairSecurity stepped up for visit by Blair

BYLINE: By Brian Walker

LENGTH: 593 words


BRITAIN and the United States remained on a heightened level of security alert
today amid threats of a possible terrorist attack.

Americans have been told to stock up on food and water after intelligence
sources warned of a possible attack by Osama bin Laden's al-Qaida terror
network.

And ahead of a visit by Prime Minister Tony Blair and Taoiseach Bertie Ahern
security around Hillsborough Castle in Co Down was tighter than in the recent
past - a reflection of the ongoing concerns about an Islamic terrorist attack.

Traffic was being kept away from the centre of Hillsborough, with journalists
being bussed into the village from nearby.

Police in London refused to reveal the substance of the threat but it is
believed the hunt is on for a suspected SAM-type ground-to-air missile which
intelligence sources fear may have been smuggled into Britain to attack key
targets.

While Downing St refused to expand on the exact nature of the terrorist threat,
Scotland Yard's activity points to a missile or high explosive.

Heathrow Airport was patrolled by troops in reconnaissance vehicles armed by
30mm cannon and machine guns and a high security presence remains today.

This is the first time that troops have patrolled Heathrow Airport since it came
under attack from IRA mortars in 1994.

Car parks on the A30 from Staines to Windsor just beyond the airport perimeter
were sealed off and police patrols are searching cars around nearby towns and
villages.

Scotland Yard said the "precautionary" move was linked to a fear that al-Qaida
could use the end of the Muslim festival of Eid, which runs from today until
Saturday, to trigger off an attack on Heathrow.

And Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens said: "I don't want people
to panic, people should not be alarmed, they should be alert."

Sir John added that the alert was for the whole of London, not just Heathrow.

In divided responses from Muslim leaders in Britain, the chairman of the Islamic
Human Rights Commission Massoud Shadjareh said it was "extremely provocative" to
link a possible attack with Eid.

"It is like suggesting Christians would use Christmas to bomb Jewish, Muslim or
Buddhist communities. It is complete rubbish," he said.

But Sheikh Omar Bakri, leader of the Islamic group al-Muhajiroun, clamed that
there were Muslims in Britain prepared to act as suicide bombers.

He said people in London should stay away from government buildings and
financial institutions.

Downing Street dismissed suggestions that the airport alert was a publicity
exercise to boost faltering support for the Government's tough line on Iraq.

"These issues are far too important to mess with", said a spokesman.

The atmosphere of threat was heightened by an audio tape allegedly by Osama bin
Laden urging Iraqis to launch suicide attacks on Americans.

The tape was seized on by the US Secretary of State Colin Powell to back his
claims of links between Iraq and al-Qaida.

The tape claims no specific link between al-Qaida and Iraq.

Indeed it distinguishes between "true" Muslims and "infidel" and "socialist"
regimes such as Iraq.

But with a war looming, the Arab world should unite against the common foes of
American "crusaders" and Israelis.

Meanwhile, a senior Church of Ireland cleric has condemned the moves towards war
with Iraq as " a propaganda exercise".

The Archbishop of Dublin Dr John Neill said that people of goodwill watched with
unease "the rush towards military confrontation."


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          February 12, 2003, Wednesday

UK ON SEPT 11 ALERT UK IS PUT ON HIGH ALERT FOR 'IMMINENT TERRORIST ATTACK';
 CHILLING WARNING OVER NEW TERROR THREAT

BYLINE: SHAUN CONNOLLY POLITICAL EDITOR GUN GUARD: Soldiers at Heathrow airport

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 251 words


BRITAIN is on the brink of its own September 11 style terror outrage, a Cabinet
Minister revealed this afternoon.

Labour Party chairman John Reid gave the chilling warning as he angrily
slapped-down claims that sending tanks to patrol Heathrow Airport was an over
reaction.

In an outspoken response that is bound to fuel rising public alarm, Dr Reid made
a direct comparison with the suicide airline bombings of New York's World Trade
Center which left around 3,000 people dead Dr Reid said: 'This is not a game.
This is about a threat of the nature that massacred thousands of people in New
York.

'I am not even going to take seriously those people who suggest this is part of
some sort of game.'

Premier Tony Blair was careful not to endorse Dr Reid's summing-up of the terror
threat during Prime Minister's Question Time in the Commons.

Mr Blair side-stepped addressing the comments when they were read back to him by
Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith. The feeling at Westminster was that Dr Reid had
gone too far for Downing Street which is trying to keep a lid on mounting
concern about the prospects of an imminent terror attack.

Home Secretary David Blunkett said that Government ministers considered shutting
Heathrow Airport following the recent terror alert.

As the massive police operation at the busy airport entered its second day, Mr
Blunkett said closing the airport would have been a victory for terrorists and
'catastrophic' for Britain's trade and economy.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          February 12, 2003, Wednesday

MINISTER IN SEPT 11 ROW UK IS PUT ON HIGH ALERT FOR 'IMMINENT TERRORIST ATTACK';

 BALTI BELT UNDER FIRE

BYLINE: SHAUN CONNOLLY CHILLING WARNING: Labour Party chairman John Reid this
afternoon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 319 words


A CABINET minister was at the centre of a huge political row this afternoon
after saying Britain was on the brink of a September 11 style terror outrage -
and then claiming he had been 'misinterpreted.' Labour Party chairman John Reid
gave the chilling warning as he angrily slapped-down claims that sending tanks
to patrol Heathrow Airport was an over reaction. In an outspoken response Dr
Reid made a direct comparison with the suicide airline bombings of New York's
World Trade Center which left around 3,000 people dead Dr Reid said: 'This is
not a game. This is about a threat of the nature that massacred thousands of
people in New York.

'I am not even going to take seriously those people who suggest this is part of
some sort of game.'

But Premier Tony Blair was careful not to endorse Dr Reid's summing-up of the
terror threat during Prime Minister's Question Time in the Commons.

And Mr Reid later said his remarks had been 'misinterpreted'.

'It was precisely the suggestion that any government, this Government included,
would use such a serious subject as international terrorism which gave us such
things as New York for their own purposes of spin or public relations I just
found pretty contemptible,' he said. 'Now that was misinterpreted, I can
understand why, by someone thinking that I had said that the scale of the threat
at Heathrow was the same as the scale of the threat in New York. 'That was not
said. It was not meant. I am glad to have the chance to clear that up.'

But Mr Reid came under fire from two Birmingham Labour MPs.

Selly Oak MP Lynne Jones said: 'I think he could have chosen his words better.

'People feel the intelligence efforts should be concentrated here at home and we
should not be getting involved in an unnecessary war with Iraq.'

Perry Barr MP Khalid Mahmood said: 'It's important for people like Dr Reid not
to go over the top.'

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          February 12, 2003, Wednesday

FORTRESS BRITAIN...;
 UK IS PUT ON HIGH ALERT FOR 'IMMINENT TERRORIST ATTACK'

BYLINE: MAIL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 301 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett today revealed that ministers had considered
closing Heathrow Airport amid fears of an imminent terrorist attack.

But they decided such an action would have been a victory for terrorists and
'catastrophic' for Britain's trade and economy.

'For those who are threatening us it would have been a victory,' he said.

'Trade would have suffered and the transport of people would have been disrupted
- this would have been a catastrophic thing to have done.'

He added: 'People can feel safer in terms of the measures we have taken than
under normal circumstances where a threat had not been perceived.'

Asked about the nature of the intelligence which has led to hundreds of armed
troops being bought in to patrol around Heathrow, the Home Sec-retary said: 'The
immediate threats are not verifiable - we are working on finding out more
information.'

Mr Blunkett said the Prime Minister and Cabinet received the information about
the threat on Monday.

'We decided we needed to act on it and that was to put in place the preventative
measures to pre-empt any action that was threatening us.'

The intelligence concerned the kind of attack outlined by the Home Office in a
document published last November, he said.

The paper was issued by the Home Office and then hurriedly withdrawn because it
talked of strikes on railways, airports and possible use of a 'dirty bomb'. The
paper was later reissued.

There was a heavy military presence at Heathrow again today. Meanwhile armed
police were today also stopping motorists driving into Birmingham International
Airport in an anti-terrorist operation.

A force spokesman said: 'Our objective is to offer reassurance to the public and
to deter, disrupt and detect any potential terrorist activity.'

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2003 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          February 12, 2003, Wednesday

LONDON ON TERROR ALERT STRONG PRESENCE: Armed soldiers on patrol at Heathrow,
after warnings of a possible terrorist attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 207 words


LONDON remained on a heightened level of security alert today, with armed troops
on patrol in and around Heathrow airport, amid fears of a possible terrorist
attack.

Scotland Yard refused to reveal the substance of the threat but terror experts
said it pointed to a possible missile attack on a plane similar to the one
carried out by al Qaida terrorists in Kenya last year.

"I don't want people to panic, people should not be alarmed, they should be
alert," said Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens.

He added: "This is an alert for the whole of London - what you see at Heathrow
is the obvious part of it.We wouldn't do this unless it was necessary - it's not
just reassurance, it's necessary for the safety of the public."

Police were also in evidence in the village of Wraysbury, near Staines, where
pairs of police officers were last night posted every 150 yards along the main
road. They had earlier been stopping drivers to carry out security checks.

Officers were also out in force in historic Windsor, about three miles north
west of Wraysbury. And car parks and lay-bys along the A30 between Windsor and
Staines, and also along some other roads, were sealed off to prevent drivers
stopping.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               February 12, 2003

YARD CHIEF: I MIGHT HAVE TO SHUT HEATHROW;
Stark warning over terror Biggest police operation ever Attackers at large in
Britain

BYLINE: David Taylor;Charles Reiss;Justin Davenport

SECTION: Pg. 1;2

LENGTH: 746 words


SCOTLAND YARD chief Sir John Stevens said today that he is prepared to close
Heathrow Airport if there is an "imminent" terrorist threat.

The airport is already at the centre of a massive security operation involving
troops, amid fears that terrorists could try to shoot a jumbo jet out of the sky
using a surface-to-air missile.

At a special briefing at New Scotland Yard, Sir John refused to give details
about the present threat to Heathrow. He did, however, admit that the
possibility of closing the airport was an option, while senior officers said
police were being deployed along flight paths into Heathrow.

Sir John spoke as it was confirmed that ministers had seriously considered a
total shutdown of Heathrow under the current state of alert. They decided not to
take the ultimate step only because of the "catastrophic" impact on Britain's
links with the world - and because it would have been a surrender to terrorism.

Other key details to emerge today are that: . Police have mounted the biggest
security operation ever seen, involving up to 2,000 of their officers and
soldiers in a "pan-London operation" to protect targets in the capital; .

Secret government papers show "it is a certainty" that there are still groups
and individuals at large in Britain who pose a " present and real" terrorist
threat to public safety at home and abroad.

Sir John would not give details of other possible targets in London, but said
that the Met is working closely with British Transport Police to protect the
Tube. As armed police and the Army maintained a ring of steel around Heathrow
today, Home Secretary David Blunkett made clear that the closure of the world's
busiest international airport had been seriously contemplated.

In clear confirmation of the fears of a missile attack on an incoming or
outgoing flight, Mr Blunkett said that measures were now in place to watch
passengers and protect aircraft, "particularly in terms of aircraft landing".

The Home Secretary continued: "We hope we can get through the next few days
without an incident. I hope we can."

Sir John Stevens said the present level of threat at Heathrow, though higher
than the one facing the rest of London, was still not described as "imminent" -
the highest level when security forces had identified suspects planning an
immediate attack.

Troops could be deployed to guard central London in the event of an emergency
terror threat, he said, but there were no plans to do so at present.

Details of the thinking behind the high-profile defences came as it emerged
today that a genuinely independent assessment of secret Government papers shows
a real and present threat.

Lord Carlile QC, the leading barrister appointed by the Government to examine
the fairness of the new emergency terrorism laws brought in after 11 September,
made absolutely clear that there are both foreigners and UK citizens plotting
terrorism.

"From the material I have seen, it is a certainty that there remain in the
United Kingdom individuals and groups who pose a present and real threat to the
safety of the public here and abroad," he said.

Meanwhile, Labour Party chairman John Reid got into a muddle today after
comparing the danger facing London with 11 September.

Asked if the deployment of troops at Heathrow was an over-the-top reaction as a
war against Iraq looms, he had angrily replied: "This is not a game.

This is about a threat of the nature that massacred thousands of people in New
York." But he later downplayed his warning and claimed his original remarks had
been "misinterpreted".

Dr Reid told Radio 4's World At One: "It was precisely the suggestion that any
government, this Government included, would use such a serious subject as
international terrorism which gave us such things as New York for their own
purposes of spin or public relations, I just found pretty contemptible.

"Now that was misinterpreted, I can understand why, by someone thinking that I
had said that the scale of the threat at Heathrow was the same as the scale of
the threat in New York. That was not meant. I am glad to have the chance to
clear that up."

& CHANCELLOR Gordon Brown announced today that he was setting aside a total of
£1.75 billion in this financial year for the Ministry of Defence to meet the
potential costs of military action. He had originally earmarked £1 billion for a
potential war against Iraq in his pre-Budget report.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2003 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 12, 2003

Threat of war: Heathrow a soft target for missile attack: Security: As troops
mount guard, experts say little can be done to stop terrorist attack from
perimeter

BYLINE: Stuart Millar

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 715 words


Ever since two suspected al-

Qaida terrorists fired two

shoulder-launched missiles at

an Israeli passenger jet as it

took off from Mombasa airport

in November, the international

airline industry has

been bracing itself for the next

attempt to bring down an

airliner.

But last night, as hundreds

of troops continued to search

Heathrow airport and along

its flight paths in response to a

specific and credible threat,

aviation security experts

warned that even with this

concentration of manpower

there was little that could be

done to prevent attacks from

outside the perimeter fence.

iMombasa put the fear of

God into the airline security

community,i said Chris Yates,

aviation security editor at

Jane's Tranport. iEver since,

they have been asking how the

hell they can protect aircraft

during takeoff and landing.

The short answer is they can't.i

Experts said Heathrow was

an extremely tempting target

for terrorists. Not only is it the

world's busiest airport, it also

has a massive perimeter area

which makes it more difficult

to secure. iIt is always going to

be near the top of the terrorists'

fantasy hit list,i said Mr

Yates.

That fact was underlined in

1994 when the IRA fired four

mortar bombs at the runway

from a Nissan Micra parked

outside the perimeter fence.

Two bombs hit the runway but

failed to detonate.

The airport's vulnerability

explains why police and troops

were conducting an unprecedented

security operation last

night over an area stretching

up to three miles into the surrounding

countryside from

the perimeter fence.

But even this would not be

enough to stop an attack if terrorists

were already in position

with a shoulder-launched

missile. Low-tech, cheap, easy

to operate and almost impossible

to detect, systems such as

the Russian-made Strela 2M

used in the Mombasa attack

are the ideal terrorist weapon.

iYou can patrol to your

heart's content but you would

have to be very, very lucky to

catch the terrorists with a SAM

missile,i said Jim O'Halloran,

editor of Jane's Land-Based Air

Defence. iThe first sign anybody

would have that they

were close would be when they

heard the growling sound the

launcher makes when the missile

has locked on to the heat of

the target aircraft's engines. By

that time it's too late.i

With a minimum range of

800m and a tail-chasing range

of up to 3.5km, they are

extremely effective. They take

no more than six seconds to

prepare for firing, and about

five seconds to fire. Indeed,

they are so simple to operate

that most experts were puzzled

by how the Mombasa terrorists

had managed to miss.

iThese may be first generation

shoulder-launched weapons,

but even with these, it is

not that difficult to bring

down an aircraft,i said Mr

O'Halloran. iSomebody with a

basic knowledge and not

much training could do a lot of

damage.i

More importantly, they are

in plentiful supply around the

world. Thousands of Strela

and Igla systems leaked into

circulation from Russian

arsenals during the 1990s

alone. Terror groups like al-

Qaida are also believed to have

stockpiles of more sophisticated

weapons such as US

Stinger systems, which were

given by the CIA to the Afghan

mojahedin to use against the

Russians in the 1980s.

Ian Davis, director of the

British American Security Information

Council, said:

iThese weapons were hailed

as turning the fight against the

Russians but now they have

become a major proliferation

concern. The CIA is so concerned

about them being used

by terror groups that it is understood

to be secretly attempting

to buy back the surplus

stock from Afghan

groups.i

The airline industry is just as

concerned. New York's airports

are understood to be

considering plans to require

anti-missile defence systems

to be fitted to all airliners using

their runways, and Congress

is to consider legislation

requiring all US passenger

jets be fitted with infra-red

countermeasures.


LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2003 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               February 12, 2003

Rocket attack threat at Heathrow as terror alerts grip Britain and US

BYLINE: Lorna Martin

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 711 words


FEARS of a terrorist rocket attack on an airliner at Heathrow yesterday forced
the prime minister to order hundreds of troops to guard the London airport.

Tony Blair's decision was echoed in the US, where people were advised to prepare
for a major chemical, biological, or radioactive "dirty bomb" attack over the
next three days. American householders were urged to be ready to seal off their
homes with tape, and stockpile food and medical supplies.

Last night, after a day of growing tension, a man said to be Osama bin Laden
urged Iraqis to carry out suicide attacks in the face of a war by the west. His
words were broadcast on the al-Jazeera Arab satellite TV channel, and both the
station and US intelligence analysts believed it was the al Qaeda leader.

In London, the complete closure of Heathrow was considered at one stage, but
rejected. Instead, 450 troops in armoured personnel carriers guarded the
airport's perimeters and manned checkpoints, and 1000 extra police officers were
on patrol. Security was also stepped up at other sites around Britain, including
Windsor Castle.

It was the first time troops have been deployed on mainland security duties
since 1994, after the IRA tried to mortar bomb runways at Heathrow.

The Metropolitan Police said the "precautionary measure" was taken because of
the possibility the al Qaeda terrorist network would use the end of the Muslim
festival of Eid al-Adha, which runs from today to Saturday, to mount attacks.

The comment sparked fury among Muslim leaders, who accused the government of
"Islamophobia" and justification for going to war on Iraq.

The alerts came three days before a crucial report from weapons inspectors in
Baghdad to the UN security council.

Shortly after security was stepped up at Heathrow, Sheikh Omar Bakri Mo-hammed,
the spiritual leader in Britain of al-Muhajiroun, the controversial Islamic
group, warned that Muslims were prepared to act as suicide bombers in the UK.

Urging people to stay away from important financial institutions and government
buildings, he said: "I would be careful. There are people who are in the UK,
these are people who are supporters of al Qaeda and . . . they are people who
feel they have a right to retaliate back."

Police were also searching under the flight path on the western approach to
Heath-row, Britain's busiest airport, and combing areas of Windsor Great Park.
Although Scotland Yard would not comment in detail, police officers stopped
motorists and searched cars in and around the village of Wraysbury.

Chris Yates, an expert with Jane's Airport Review, warned a missile could be
used to bring down a plane. "We can put all sorts of technology and security in
airports, but it doesn't take an Einstein to work out you can park around the
perimeter and launch something like a missile."

Mr Blair's spokesman said the heightened security presence was part of "an
ongoing operation in relation to a specific threat.

"The threat is real and the response to it will go up and down accordingly," he
said. "The government and the security authorities are taking whatever action
they believe necessary to protect the public."

Claims of a possible link between a terrorist attack and the festival of Eid
were dismissed as "deeply insulting" by senior Muslim leaders. Massoud
Shadjareh, chairman of the Islamic Human Rights Commission, said it was
"extremely provocative and Islamophobic" to suggest Muslims would plant bombs
and try to kill Christians at the end of the festival.

"It is like suggesting that Christians would use Christmas to bomb Jewish,
Muslim, or Buddhist communities. I think that Muslims are not only becoming
second-class citizens but are now being used as a justification for certain
political decisions that are being made by the government. This is being used as
a justification for going to war."

Dr Zaki Badawi, director of the Muslim College, also said the link was a "ploy"
to drum up support for war against Iraq.

Last November, the home secretary warned of "ever more dramatic and devastating"
terror attacks. David Blunkett said al Qaeda would attack key economic targets
or the transport infrastructure or damage the population's health if it could.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ARMED ARRIVALS: Soldiers and armoured vehicles move in to support armed
police as a tight guard is thrown around Heathrow airport in the rocket alert.
Picture: Tim Ockenden/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 12, 2003, Wednesday

THE THREAT OF WAR: TROOPS PATROL HEATHROW AFTER TERROR WARNING OF MISSILE ATTACK
ON AIRCRAFT';
 SECURITY

BYLINE: PAUL PEACHEY Travellers shrugged off the presence of troops, but Sheikh
Omar Bakri Mohammed, below, claimed al-Qa'ida was ready to attack

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 652 words


ARMOURED VEHICLES and hundreds of troops were drafted in to protect Heathrow
airport yesterday after security services received intelligence of a terrorist
threat.

An additional 1,000 police officers, many of them armed, were deployed from 6am
along with 450 troops who patrolled the perimeter of the airport in west London
and its four terminals in Land Rovers and reconnaissance vehicles armed with
30mm cannon and machine guns.

Scotland Yard said the move was a "precautionary measure" linked to concerns
that al-Qa'ida or associated groups might use the end of the Muslim festival of
Eid as an excuse to attack. The festival runs from today until Saturday.

Scotland Yard refused to reveal the substance of the threat but terror experts
said it pointed to a possible missile attack on a plane similar to the one
carried out by al-Qa'ida terrorists in Kenya last year. Chris Yates, an expert
with the specialist journal Jane's Airport Review, said: "The key here is
perimeter security. We can put all sorts of technology and security in airports
but it doesn't take an Einstein to work out that you can park around the
perimeter and launch something like a missile."

Hours after the soldiers arrived, police began stopping vehicles under the
flightpath near the village of Wraysbury in Berkshire. In Windsor, which is also
under the main Heathrow flightpath, soldiers patrolled the town and troops
manned entrances to Windsor Great Park and searched wooded areas. Security was
also bolstered at unspecified sites linked to London's economic and transport
system.

At Heathrow, troops from the 1st Battalion the Grenadier Guards and the
Household Cavalry Regiment patrolled the airport complex. The convoys of army
vehicles and police cars included several Scimitar armoured reconnaissance
vehicles which spent short periods at the terminals and other sites. Soldiers,
dressed in combat fatigues and carrying rifles, patrolled on foot in teams of
two or three around the terminal buildings. Scimitars, which resemble small
tanks, can travel at up to 50mph and were last deployed at Heathrow in 1994
after a failed IRA mortar attack from outside the perimeter fencing. The shells
failed to explode and no one was injured.

In a statement Scotland Yard said: "From time to time it is necessary to raise
levels of security activity. We think it is prudent to do so now. The current
strengthening of security is precautionary and is related to action being taken
in other countries and the possibility that the end of the religious festival of
Eid may erroneously be used by al-Qa'ida and associated networks to mount
attacks."

Massoud Shadjareh, chairman of the Islamic Human Rights Commission, based in
London, said it was "extremely provocative" to link a possible attack with Eid.
"It is like suggesting that Christians would use Christmas to bomb Jewish,
Muslim or Buddhist communities, he said. "It is unbelievable rubbish."

Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohammed, leader of the Islamic group al-Muhajiroun, claimed
yesterday that radical Muslims were prepared to act as suicide bombers. He said
people should stay away from locations such as financial institutions and
government buildings. "I would be careful, there are people who are in the UK,
these are people who are supporters of al-Qa'ida and these people are
Islamically speaking, they are people who feel they have a right to retaliate
back," he told the BBC.

Downing Street said the Heathrow deployment was "an ongoing operation in
relation to a specific threat" personally authorised by the Prime Minister. Tony
Blair's spokesman said: "The Government and the security authorities are taking
whatever action they believe necessary to protect the public."

Last week the US national terror alert was raised from yellow to orange, the
second highest category, after a "high-risk" intelligence warning of a terrorist
attack.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 12, 2003, Wednesday

ISRAELI ARMY SEALS BORDERS AFTER EXCEPTIONAL' NUMBER OF TERRORIST ATTACK
WARNINGS

BYLINE: JUSTIN HUGGLER IN JERUSALEM

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 416 words


THE ISRAELI army closed the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip yesterday,
stopping Palestinians crossing into Israel, even as talks between the government
and Palestinian leaders continued. At least one armed Palestinian was killed in
renewed violence.

The closure in effect cancelled plans to loosen travel restrictions to allow
Palestinians to pray at the al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem and visit relatives for
the Muslim festival of Eid, which began yesterday. Thousands of Palestinians
still cross into Israel daily to work, though the numbers issued permits are a
small fraction of those allowed in before the intifada.

The Israeli army said the reason for the closure was an exceptionally high
number of intelligence warnings of attacks by Palestinian militants. The closure
coincided with heightened security in Britain and the United States amid fears
of an al-Qa'ida attack during the Muslim holiday. The Israeli authorities have
repeatedly sought to present their conflict with the Palestinians as equivalent
to President George Bush's "war on terror".

The Israeli army frequently orders closures of individual cities, but a total
closure is comparatively rare. One was ordered during the final stages of the
Israeli election last month, suggesting they could become more common.

Talks were expected to continue between Israeli and Palestinian officials, after
the surprise revelation that Ariel Sharon had talks with the Speaker of the
Palestinian parliament last week, despite his insistence on no negotiations
until the violence ended and Yasser Arafat was removed as Palestinian leader.

Hani al-Hassan, the Palestinian Interior Minister, who has called for an end to
attacks against civilians in Israel itself, was due to meet Dov Weisglass, the
head of Mr Sharon's office. The two met last week, reportedly at the American
ambassador's residence, an indication of the source of pressure for the current
discussions.

The talks are believed to be aimed at securing an agreement for Israeli troops
to hand back control of reoccupied Palestinian cities to Palestinian security
forces, beginning with the West Bank cities of Jenin, Qalqilya and Tulkarem.
Similar plans have failed in the past.

In the Gaza Strip, a Palestinian carrying a gun was shot dead by Israeli
soldiers. Another Palestinian was shot in the head by Israeli soldiers trying to
detain suspected militants in Nablus. Israel radio said he had been killed, but
Islamic Jihad denied the claim.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Leyland Guardian

                               February 12, 2003

Vandals in 100mph terror attack

SOURCE: Leyland Guardian

LENGTH: 190 words


A GANG of youths endangered hundreds of lives by throwing bricks at a busy train
passing through Leyland.

The gang hurled missiles at the Virgin Train from the side of the track at
Leyland Way.

The train was on its way from London to Carlisle and travelled past at around
100mph.

Police today condemned the actions of the vandals which they say could have
easily killed someone.

Sgt Paul Moores, of the British Transport Police, said: We have had problems
before with young people congregating on the station late at night, but this is
very different.

If it had gone through the window, they could have knocked somebody out and if
they had hit the driver people could have been killed.

These children don't seem to understand what serious injury they could cause if
what they were throwing went through the window and hit someone.

The driver of Monday's 3.30pm London Euston to Carlisle Virgin service reported
the incident at around 6.30pm on Monday evening, but said there was no damage to
the train.

Sgt Moores, added: It is a problem that we have nationally, this incident just
happened to occur in Leyland.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-1000
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  22:21:04

